REPORT
ANNUAL

2018

The National Data Protection Commission (CNPD) is a

independent public institution with legal personality. She

enjoys financial and administrative autonomy.

It is responsible for verifying the legality of files and all collections,
uses and disclosures of information about individuals
identifiable and must ensure in this context respect for the freedoms and rights
fundamental rights of natural persons, in particular their private life.

2

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDINTRODUCTION It must in particular check and verify whether the data subject to processing are processed in
compliance with the provisions:
• the General Data Protection Regulation;
• the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of

data and the general data protection regime;

• the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security;
• the amended law of 30 May 2005 on the protection of privacy in the sector of

electronic communications;

• legal texts providing for specific provisions on the protection of personal data

personal character.

It is not competent to control the processing operations of personal data.
personnel carried out by the courts of the judiciary, including the public prosecutor, and
administrative order in the exercise of their judicial functions. This mission falls to
the judicial data protection supervisory authority.

3

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD MISSIONS
Inform and guide with:
• Raising public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, safeguards and

rights relating to processing;

• Raising the awareness of data controllers and processors with regard to the

obligations incumbent upon them.

Advise through:
• Opinions relating to bills and regulatory or administrative measures concerning

the processing of personal data;

• Suggestions and recommendations addressed to the government, in particular concerning the
relevant developments, insofar as they have an impact on data protection
of a personal nature, in particular in the field of information technology and
communication and business practices;

• The promotion of good practices and the publication of thematic guidelines;
• Approval of codes of conduct, certification schemes and accreditation of organizations

certification;

• Recommendations to the controller in accordance with the consultation procedure

prior.

Supervise and ensure transparency by:
• Inspections following complaints or on its own initiative;
• Data protection audits;
• Responding to data breaches;
• Maintaining internal records of GDPR violations;
• The establishment and maintenance of a list in connection with the obligation to carry out an analysis

impact relating to data protection;

• Approval of Binding Corporate Rules;
• Reviewing certifications and monitoring certifiers;
• The adoption of corrective measures (e.g. warning, prohibition of treatment or fine

administration).

Cooperate through:
• Exchanges with other national or foreign supervisory authorities;
• Contribution to the activities of the European Data Protection Board.

4

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDINTRODUCTION TO VALUES
The CNPD independently exercises the missions assigned to it. She determines her
own priorities within the limits of its legal framework. It chooses its priorities, in particular on the basis
criteria such as the seriousness and extent of the violation of the law and the extent of the individuals affected.

Expertise is very important for the CNPD, which is dedicated to quality work. To this end, the
CNPD strives to work with interdisciplinary teams and invests in the development
of its employees to improve their knowledge and skills.

The CNPD ensures transparency with regard to its results and its choices, which generates support
for his work and invites dialogue. The CNPD is open, honest and visible. She promotes a
positive and open atmosphere.

The CNPD is proud to work for the protection of a fundamental right. She bears witness to her
commitment to its work and its staff and is a fully-fledged player in society.

5

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 1 FOREWORD

2 2018 AT A GLANCE

3 ACTIVITIES IN 2018
  1 AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE
 
 
 
 
 

  1.1 Awareness actions
  1.2 Organization of training and conferences
  1.3 Development of guidance
  1.4 Opinions and recommendations
  1.5 Processing inquiries

8

12

16
16
16
21
26
29
39

  2 COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

41
  2.1 Complaint handling
41
  2.2 Checks carried out
44
  2.3 Notification of data breaches
46
  2.4 Appointment of Data Protection Officers
53
  2.5 Prior consultation in the context of a data protection impact assessment 54
56
  2.6 Certificates
57
  2.7 International transfers of personal data
  2.8 Corrective measures and sanctions
60
  2.9 Processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in criminal matters
 
  2.10 Retention of traffic and location data

national security

62
62

 

6

TABLE OF CONTENTS2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 3 WORK AT INTERNATIONAL LEVEL
 
 
 
 
 
 

  3.1 The European Data Protection Board
  3.2 The “Berlin Group”
  3.3 Spring conference of European data protection authorities
  3.4 International Conference of Data Protection Commissioners
  3.5 The European Case Handling Workshop
  3.6 Signature of the protocol amending Council of Europe Convention 108

4 RESOURCES, STRUCTURES AND OPERATION
  1 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  2 PERSONNEL AND SERVICES

  3 ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE CNPD
 
 

  3.1 Organization chart from 01.01.2018 to 24.05.2018
  3.2 Organization chart from 25.05.2018 to 31.12.2018

5 APPENDICES

63
63
68
69
69
70
70

72
72

77

78
78
79

80

7

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The college: Thierry Lallemang, Tine A. Larsen, Christophe Buschmann

Since May 25, 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation1 or “GDPR” is applicable. This

new legal framework aims to establish a harmonized framework within the European Union and replaces the
directive of 19952. The European regulation was supplemented at national level by the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the CNPD and the general data protection regime. The law of 1 August 2018 relating to
the protection of data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security has transposed the
Directive (EU) 2016/6803.

The prior formalities (notifications and authorizations) that the organizations had to submit to the CNPD
for certain processing have been removed – in order to comply with the new GDPR philosophy aimed at
to increase the accountability of those who process personal data.

Because of this new so-called “accountability” approach, the CNPD has moved from an a priori control system
towards an a posteriori control. This paradigm shift allows it to focus more on its missions
awareness raising for the general public, guidance for data controllers and investigations.

The CNPD has been actively preparing for this new regime for several years and in 2018, it continued its
general approach, which consists in ensuring a balance between guidance and control.

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data

personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC

2 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data

and the free movement of such data

3 Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, or
enforcement of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA

8

1FOREWORD 2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT A VERY INVOLVED COMMISSION

The entry into application of the new rules was accompanied by an unprecedented awareness of the issues
data protection for professionals and individuals. This led to an increase
significant number of requests from the CNPD.

Thus, the CNPD received 1,112 written requests for information in 2018, more than double than in 2017.
where it had received 528. This high number is explained by the media effect of the GDPR and the actors increasingly
more aware.

Many questions focused on compliance with the new legislation. Other requests
recurrent concerns notably concerned video surveillance (of the private home and in the workplace), the delegate
to data protection or the right of access and other rights of data subjects (right to
erasure, right of opposition, right of rectification, etc.).

The National Commission also participated in the legislative process with 27 opinions (i.e. 5 more than in 2017)
on bills or regulatory measures related to data protection. For example can
be cited the opinions concerning the implementation of the shared care file, the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism, the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service, RENITA (National Integrated Network
communications for the Luxembourg security and emergency services), the modernization of the right to
bankruptcy, the register of beneficial owners or municipal administrative sanctions.

TOWARDS MORE GUIDANCE AND AWARENESS

On the occasion of the entry into force of the new regulations, the CNPD launched its awareness campaign
" Your data? Your rights! ". From May 25 to June 11, the Data Protection Authority organized several
events, distributed 12,000 brochures and gadgets in many strategic locations in the Grand Duchy and
appeared in the media.

On June 4, the CNPD brought together prestigious speakers to celebrate 4 decades of data protection at the
Rockhall. The Prime Minister, Mr Xavier Bettel, the European Commissioner for Justice, Consumers
and Gender Equality, Ms Vera Jourova, and the President of the European Data Protection Board,
Ms. Andre Jelinek, notably intervened.

The CNPD focused on numerous awareness-raising and guidance measures in 2018, including:
• the creation of its new brochure for the general public, the purpose of which is to present the rights of

citizens with regard to data protection and to explain how to assert them;

• the development of new guidelines for video surveillance, concerning image rights,
relating to data protection rules in the context of social elections and for associations;

9

2018 CNPDANNUALREPORT 2018 CNPD • the publication of several forms (notification of data breaches, declaration of the delegate for the
data protection, request for prior consultation) facilitating the task of data controllers;

• the training of more than 500 people during 12 introductory sessions on data protection;
• the organization of the first “DaProLab (CNPD’s Open Data Protection Laboratory)” on impact assessment
on the persons affected by a data breach in the hospital environment, medical practices and
medical laboratories;

• the organization of workshops aimed mainly at users of the "GDPR Compliance Support Tool",
a tool allowing them to check the level of maturity of their organization in terms of data protection
data ; or

• participation in more than 86 conferences and training courses for more specialized audiences (Chamber of

Commerce, Chamber of Trades, ABBL, University of Luxembourg, etc.).

A RECORD NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS

The number of complaints from people who believe there has been a breach of law or obstruction of
the exercise of their rights more than doubled compared to the previous year, from 200 in 2017 to 450 in 2018.
GDPR had a significant impact: during the first 5 months of the year, the CNPD received an average of 18 complaints per
month, while for the next 7 months she received 51 per month.

Almost a quarter of the complaints (24%) were motivated by the non-respect of the right of access by the persons in charge of the
treatment. Requests for deletion or rectification of data to which the desired consequences had not
not been reserved constituted 16% of the complaints. In 15% of cases, complainants asked the CNPD to
verify the legality of certain administrative or commercial practices. In particular, they questioned the
general conditions relating to online shops or services or the retention period of
data collected.

STRENGTHENING OF THE INVESTIGATION METHODOLOGY: AUDITS AND ON-THE-SPOT CHECKS

The CNPD has adapted its strategy and set up so-called “proactive” investigations. These surveys are carried out under
the form of thematic audits relating to the new obligations of the GDPR.

Given the impact of the new role of the Data Protection Officer (DPO) and the importance of its integration into
the company, the CNPD has decided to launch a thematic survey campaign on the function of the DPO. Thus, 25
audit procedures were opened in 2018.

The CNPD also carried out reactive checks on the basis of incidents, complaints, information relayed
in the media or following a previous check. 12 on-site investigations took place in 2018 in the
video surveillance, geolocation, advertising and marketing.

10

1FOREWORD2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT CNPD headquarters in Belval

© The Belval Fund

ROOT CAUSE OF DATA BREACHES: HUMAN ERROR

Since May 25, 2018, data controllers must notify personal data breaches
personnel to the CNPD within 72 hours of becoming aware of it if the breach in question is
likely to create a risk for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. In 2018, 172 violations of
data have been notified to the CNPD. The main cause of personal data breach is the error
human.

To remedy this, companies must therefore strengthen the human factor. Above all, it involves raising awareness.
and staff training, which must be systematic and regular.

FUTURE PROSPECTS

After the entry into force of the GDPR, the CNPD is consolidating its new structures and procedures. In 2019, she
will continue its efforts to support players in the compliant application of legislation in terms of
protection of personal data and will strengthen the control of compliance with the obligations arising therefrom in cooperation
with its European counterparts.

Luxemburg, 16 May 2019

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

11

2018 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPD JANUARY
28 •
28 •
30 •

12th Data Protection Day
The CNPD publishes its new public awareness brochure “Your data? Your rights ! »
The CNPD and the APDL are organizing a conference on the rights of citizens and the novelties brought by the
European regulation

FEBRUARY
7-8 •
9 •

The CNPD organizes introductory training in data protection
The CNPD validates PayPal's "BCR" charter

APRIL
13 •

MAY
3-4 •
25 •
25 •

29 •

JUNE
4 •

The CNPD organizes workshops on the use of the GDPR Compliance Support Tool

The CNPD participates in the spring conference of data protection authorities in Tirana
Entry into application of the General Data Protection Regulation
The “Article 29” working group at European level is replaced by the European Committee for the Protection of
Data
The CNPD launches the public consultation concerning the "GDPR Carpa" certification scheme

The CNPD organizes the conference "Four Decades of Data Protection" in the presence of Prime Minister Xavier
Bettel and European Commissioner Vera Jourova

6-10 • The CNPD distributes 12,000 copies of its brochure “Your data? your rights ! »
8 •

The CNPD organizes a Cybersecurity Breakfast with SECURITYMADEIN.LU on notifications of violations of
data and security incidents
The CNPD publishes general guidance on data protection for non-profit associations
lucrative

29 •

12

2ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPTHE YEAR 2018 AT A GLANCE JULY
4-7 •
18 •

The CNPD organizes introductory training in data protection
The CNPD publishes guidelines on the exercise of image rights

AUGUST
14 •

The CNPD publishes video surveillance guidelines

SEPTEMBER
4 •

The CNPD organizes introductory training sessions on data protection

OCTOBER
10 •
22-26 • The CNPD participates in the 40th International Conference of Data Protection Commissioners and

 Luxembourg signs the amending protocol to Council of Europe Convention 108

privacy in Brussels

NOVEMBER
27 •

The CNPD publishes guidelines relating to data protection rules within the framework of
social elections

27-29 • The CNPD takes part in the European “Case Handling Workshop” seminar in Budapest
28 •

The CNPD organizes its first DaProLab on the assessment of the impacts on data subjects
of a data breach

DECEMBER
10 •

International Human Rights Day

13

2018 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPD AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE

12,000

BOOKLETS
DISTRIBUTED
during the campaign
awareness

“Your data, your rights”

12

TRAINING

86

PRESENTATIONS

2

WORKSHOPS

introduction to protection

Datas

at conferences, seminars

and round tables

on the use of the GDPR

Compliance Support Tool,
a tool that allows
users to check the

level of maturity of their
organizations in terms of

Data protection

1ST

DAPROLAB

4

NEWS
GUIDELINES

27

NOTICE

New type of event
allowing the exchange of views
on a specific topic between
protection professionals

Datas

• Video surveillance
• Image rights

• Practical guide for
the associative world
• Social elections

relating to projects or

bills or measures

regulatory

+5 compared to 2017

14

1.112

REQUESTS FOR
INFORMATION

IN WRITING

Top 3 questions

concern:

1. CCTV

2. the protection delegate

Datas

3. the right of access

+110% compared to 2017

2ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPTHE YEAR 2018 AT A GLANCE COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

25

AUDITS

to check the compliance of

designation bodies and
implementation of the role of delegate to the

Data protection

818

RESPONSIBLE FOR
HAVE TREATMENT
ANNOUNCED THE

CONTACT DETAILS OF THEIR

DPO AT THE CNPD

450

COMPLAINTS

Main reasons:

1. Failure to respect the right of access (24%)

2. Request for erasure or
rectification not respected (16%)
3. Doubts as to the legality of

certain administrative practices or

commercial (15%)
+125% compared to 2017

12

INVESTIGATIONS
ON THE SPOT

in the fields of

video surveillance, geolocation,

advertising and marketing

172

NOTICES
OF VIOLATIONS
OF DATA

Main cause: human error (57%)

Type of incident:

1. personal data sent to

wrong recipient (49%)
2. hacking, hacking (34%)

3. disclosure of personal data

to the wrong person (21%)

More than half of the incidents are

detected within 48 hours after they

have occurred.

493

DELEGATES

TO PROTECTION

DATA (DPO)

493 natural or legal persons
have been declared to the CNPD

+343 compared to 2017 where 150 people
were approved to carry out the activity of charge

data protection (under the former

regime of the 2002 law).

15

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 1 AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE

 

 

 

1.1 AWARENESS ACTIONS

A) 28 JANUARY 2018: DATA PROTECTION DAY

12th DATA PROTECTION DAY

The Council of Europe, with the support of the European Commission, solemnly proclaimed on 28 January
each year as "Data Protection Day". The aim is to raise public awareness of
the importance of protecting their personal data and respecting their fundamental rights and freedoms,
especially their private life.

Why January 28? This is the date of the opening for signature of the "Convention 108" of the Council of Europe
(January 28, 1981). The latter was the first legally binding international instrument in this area.
For more than 35 years, the convention has aimed to protect everyone against the misuse of their data.
concern and to ensure transparency with regard to the files and processing of personal data.

 
 

CONFERENCE ON THE RIGHTS OF CITIZENS AND
NEWS BROUGHT BY THE EUROPEAN REGULATIONS

As part of the 12th Data Protection Day, the CNPD and the APDL (Association for the Protection
data in Luxembourg) organized a conference on the rights of citizens and the novelties brought
by European regulations. The conference was followed by the round table “The protection of personal data
to everyone ? ".

This was an opportunity for the APDL to present the Luxembourg version of its awareness video spot. There
CNPD presented its new public awareness brochure.

 

BROCHURE “YOUR DATA? YOUR RIGHTS ! »

The purpose of this publication is to present the rights of citizens with regard to data protection and to explain
how to claim them.

The brochure is available in French and German. It is available in printed form and can be downloaded
on the CNPD website.

16

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Conference on citizens' rights and the novelties introduced by European regulations.

 

B) AWARENESS CAMPAIGN “YOUR DATA? YOUR RIGHTS ! »

On the occasion of the entry into force of the new general regulation on data protection on May 25
2018, the CNPD launched its awareness campaign “Your data? Your rights ! ".

From May 25 to June 11, the Data Protection Authority organized several events, distributed 12,000
brochures and gadgets in many strategic places in the Grand Duchy and intervened in the program
“Wousst der schon? by RTL.

 

JUNE 4, 2018: “FOUR DECADES OF DATA PROTECTION” CONFERENCE

On June 4, 2018, the CNPD brought together prestigious speakers to celebrate 4 decades of data protection in
the Rockhal. The entry into force of the data protection package consisting of the police justice directive and the
General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter GDPR) on May 8 and 25, was at the center of all
the debates.

In the introduction, Prime Minister Xavier Bettel wondered about the symbol embodied by the entry into
application of the GDPR. After talking about how he experienced the day of May 25, he said that innovation
in new technologies and data protection were not mutually exclusive. He then pointed out that
Europeans were the protagonists of data protection in the digital age.

The European Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality, Ms Vera Jourova
for her part, recalled the role of the European Union in data protection. She argued that the
General Data Protection Regulation is not a revolution but an evolution of common sense.

Five students from the Master in Space, Communications and Media Law at the University of
Luxembourg shared their feedback on the application of data protection on a daily basis both
both personally and professionally. They shared their techniques to best protect their
data by sharing their personal data on the internet as little as possible and by reading the policies
confidentiality. They also returned to the challenges posed by the GDPR to SMEs.

17

2018 CNPDANNUALREPORT 2018 CNPD Tine A. Larsen, Xavier Bettel, Vera Jourova and Félix Braz at the “Four Decades of Data Protection” conference

The panel composed of Ms Andrea Jelinek, President of the European Data Protection Board
(EDPS or EDPB – European Data Protection Board), Mr. Gérard Lommel, Government Commissioner
for Data Protection in Public Administration, and Prof. Mark D. Cole of the University of Luxembourg
conducted a retrospective on the role of data protection authorities.

The panel looked back on the early years of data protection authorities in the Member States of
the European Union and the beginnings of their cooperation within the “Article 29” group. The latter is replaced
by the EDPB, which continues its cooperation work with the heavy task of establishing the application of the package
data protection in the interest of both citizens and businesses.

Mr. Jan Philipp Albrecht, ardent defender of privacy and member of the European Parliament, sent a
video message during the conference. He reported on the negotiation stages of the data protection package and
on the important role played by Luxembourg during its presidency of the Council of the European Union.

18

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 “Four Decades of Data Protection” Conference

19

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Mr. Luc Reding, First Class Management Advisor at the Ministry of Justice, for his part, has
particularly decided on the implementation of the data protection package under the Luxembourg presidency in
Council of the European Union. His remarks focused mainly on the police-justice directive and the context
of its adoption. He recalled the importance of cooperation in criminal matters and in matters of investigation, but
that such cooperation should not take place to the detriment of the protection of the data of victims,
suspects and all individuals.

Me Jean-Louis Schiltz, Prof. Hon. at the University of Luxembourg and adviser in technology law, is
in particular, returned to the difficulties encountered by SMEs in the implementation of the GDPR.

Ms. Tine A. Larsen, President of the CNPD, closed the event recalling the missions of the
National Commission for Data Protection, namely to raise awareness and inform citizens about the
protection of personal data but also to support and guide companies in the implementation
of the GDPR.

 

JUNE 6-10, 2018: DISTRIBUTION OF THE BROCHURE “YOUR DATA? YOUR RIGHTS ! »

From June 6 to 10, the CNPD distributed 12,000 copies of its brochure “Your Data? Your rights ! " and his
gadget in many strategic places in the Grand Duchy.

 
 

JUNE 8, 2018: CYBERSECURITY BREAKFAST - NOTIFICATION 101:
HOW TO FACE DATA BREACHES AND SECURITY INCIDENTS?

On June 8, the CNPD organized a Cybersecurity Breakfast with SECURITYMADEIN.LU on the notifications of
data breaches and security incidents.

Since May 25, 2018, data controllers must notify personal data breaches
personnel to the CNPD within 72 hours of becoming aware of it if the breach in question is
likely to create a risk for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

After an introductory speech by the President of the CNPD, a round table brought together experts in
data protection:

• Alain Herrmann - Head of Data Breach Unit and Certification Unit (CNPD)
• Gerard Wagener - CIRCL (Computer Incident Response Center Luxembourg)
• Dolores Peres - Head of Group Data Protection (KBL)
• Eric Romang - Data Protection and Information Security Officer (PingPong SA)

20

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Distribution of the brochure “Your Data? Your rights ! »

 
 

JUNE 4-9, 2018: ÄER DONNEEËN? ÄER RICHTER!
THEME OF THE SHOW “WOUSST DER SCHONN? » FROM RTL

From June 4 to 9, the CNPD intervened in the program “Wousst der schonn? by RTL Radio. existing rights,
as well as new data protection rights were presented to the general public.

 

 

1.2 ORGANIZATION OF TRAINING AND CONFERENCES

A) “INTRODUCTION TO DATA PROTECTION” TRAINING

In 2018, the CNPD organized 12 introductory data protection training sessions in French and
English.

More than 500 people took part in this seminar intended to familiarize them with the essential basic concepts,
the rights of data subjects, the role of the CNPD, the obligations of the controller and the
novelties introduced by the European regulation on data protection.

With the progressive digitization of our society, more and more companies, public administrations,
associations and other professionals may collect, exchange and process personal data
staff.

However, the organizations that use this data are subject to strict rules. Treatments such as
video surveillance, geolocation, human resources management, biometrics or transfer to
third countries must comply with these rules.

In order to respect the rights of citizens and their own obligations, it is important that the actors (interested parties,
controllers, subcontractors, etc. understand and know the subject of data protection
personal.

21

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD

B) “PROFESSIONAL IN PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION” TRAINING

The CNPD and the CSL have combined their skills to develop a new evening course: The “professional
in the protection of personal data”.

The target audience for this training are data controllers or anyone responsible for
the protection of personal data.

This profile aims to understand the challenges of data protection and potential sources of risk, to share
methods and tools as well as getting to know the support players such as the CNPD. The modules offered
provide learners with solid knowledge of the legislation in force, information systems,
on compliance and on communication. Action-training, on the other hand, enables participants to
learners to acquire good reflexes and build up a toolbox.

The modules making up this profile are:

• Governance and understanding of information systems
• The legal framework for the protection of personal data and its challenges
• Training-Action: good practices in the protection of personal data
• Raise awareness and communicate
• Auditing and Compliance

Each module has 25 hours spread over 10 sessions at the rate of one evening per week outside the
Luxembourg school holidays.

 

C) DAPROLAB (CNPD'S OPEN DATA PROTECTION LABORATORY)

In 2018, the CNPD started to organize new events called “DaProLab (CNPD’s Open Data
Protection Laboratory)”.

What is the DaProLab?

• A session for exchanging ideas, interpretations, points of view on a specific subject between professionals

of data protection.

• During a DaProLab session, only one subject (defined in advance) is discussed.
• As part of their accountability, participants can compare their decisions /

22

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 positions / points of view / ideas with the other participants in order to obtain feedback on their
choices made.

• Exchanges of knowledge and experience.

The first DaProLab took place on November 28, 2018 and focused on the assessment of impacts on people
affected by a data breach in hospitals, medical practices and medical laboratories.
The representative of a national hospital presented his approach. The latter served as the basis for launching the
discussion on the subject.

 

D) WORKSHOPS ON THE USE OF THE GDPR COMPLIANCE SUPPORT TOOL

In order to help organizations in their compliance efforts, the CNPD has developed a tool allowing them to
to check the level of maturity in terms of data protection: the “GDPR Compliance Support Tool”,
available at https://cst.cnpd.lu.

In 2018, the CNPD organized several workshops aimed mainly at users of this tool. THE
objectives of these events were:

• explain the GDPR compliance support model integrated into the tool (organization / processing / sub-

contracting) and how this model supports the controller's compliance exercise;

• interactivity with participants to answer questions about the practical use of the tool

and understanding the requirements to be evaluated.

 

E) OTHER EVENTS IN WHICH THE CNPD PARTICIPATED

Alongside the events mentioned above, the National Commission also regularly participates in
training, conferences and seminars to raise awareness among more specialized audiences of protection issues
Datas.

Introduction to data protection
Throughout the year, the CNPD gave introductory courses on data protection, in particular
to the following organisations: FEDAS (Federation of Social Sector Actors in Luxembourg), the European
Mentoring & Coaching Council, the ASBL women in distress, the COSL (Comité Olympique du Sport Luxembourg),
the CIJ (National Information Center for Young People), the non-profit association Familljencenter, meeting centers for young people
of the City of Luxembourg, the FNEL (National Federation of Scouts and Girl Scouts of Luxembourg), the RBS-
Seniorenakademie and the SNJ (National Youth Service).

23

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The supervisory authority also intervened regularly with the Ecole Supérieure de Travail (EST) and
INAP in order to give them general training on data protection.

Presentations focusing on the missions and powers of the CNPD were also given to the Court
Grand Ducale and during the ERA Summer Course on European Data Protection Law.

The new General Data Protection Regulation
In 2018, the CNPD participated in many events related to the new rules on protection
data in order to raise the awareness of as many people as possible.

More general presentations concerning GDPR compliance were given to representatives
of the municipal sector, to the Jonk Handwierk platform, to the Association of Professional Trustees of
Luxembourg, the Luxembourg Association of Compliance Officers (ALCO), the Order of Chartered Accountants,
at the veterinary college and at Luxinnovation.

At other conferences and trainings, the topics of the presentations were more specific in order to take into account
the needs of the target audience. Thus, the CNPD intervened:

• the third part of the Fit4DataProtection conference cycle organized by the Chamber of Commerce and
the Enterprise Europe Network-Luxembourg on the main principles of the GDPR and a workshop on the sidelines of the
conference entitled “Test your compliance using the GDPR Compliance Support Tool”;

• at the conference “The craft business and personal data” of the Chamber of Trades on the

adaptations that a craft business must make to comply with the new rules;

• at the “Computers, Privacy and Data Protection Conference” in Brussels during the panel “Disruptive/Enabling

• at the Data Privacy Day, organized by RESTENA and the University of Luxembourg with a presentation entitled

technologies, ethics and the GDPR”;

“Compliance monitoring by the CNPD”;

• with the Order of Architects and Consulting Engineers on the subject of “Protection of data and offices

OAI members - the equation to solve together”;

• during a round table at the University of Luxembourg with the title “Help me, I’m hacked - Incident management

and GDPR governance”;

• during a lunch with the AMCHAM (American Chamber of Commerce) and the BCC (British Chamber of
Commerce) on the subject of data transfers to third countries and the novelties introduced by the
GDPR;

• at the conference "What is the concrete impact of the GDPR in the field of human resources?" " organized by

POG (HR Community in Luxembourg);

24

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 • during the conference “Financial services in a digital world” of the ALJB (Association luxembourgeoise

lawyers in banking law) with a presentation on the GDPR and online financial services;

• at the “Delano Live: insights into the impact of the GDPR” event by answering questions from the public;
• during an event organized by the ABBL entitled “Surfing the wave of the GDPR” with a presentation on

“PSD 2 and the GDPR”;

• with the CERT (Cyber Emergency Response Community) on the subject “Data Science/Engineering vs GDPR”;
• during the conference "The GDPR: a governance strategy beyond protection?" » from the House of

the European Union on the theme “The challenges of applying the GDPR in Luxembourg”;

• at Luxembourg Data Protection Days “GDPR is now” with a presentation entitled “The enforcement

approach of the CNPD” as well as a presentation on certification and codes of conduct;

• to a practical workshop of the House of Entrepreneurship on the GDPR entitled “The GDPR, what is it?

How to set it up in my TPE? » ;

• during the Data Information Security Forum to explain the 7 steps to comply with the GDPR;
• during a seminar of the Guichet Unique PME with a presentation on how small and medium-sized

companies can comply with this new legislation;

• at a conference organized in collaboration with the Association for Data Protection in Luxembourg
(APDL) and the Ministry of the Economy on certification under the General Regulations on the protection of
data ;

• at the conference "Accountability in a GDPR World" by Grant Thornton Luxembourg with a presentation on the scheme

GDPR Carpa certification;

• with the Social Offices Agreement on the role of the data protection officer.

Other themes
The CNPD has also participated in numerous conferences on more specific topics such as:
• “RegTech” (Regulatory Technology) during CEPSlab18 on the topic “Technology: The missing link in
compliant? and during the RegTech Summit on the theme “The state of the RegTech market: an outlook for
compliance and regulations”;

• artificial intelligence as part of a conference of the SnT (Interdisciplinary Center for Security, Reliability and

Trust);

• the Internet of Things during Internet Security Day;
• health within the framework of a round table during the tenth national health conference entitled “Innovation

and digital health at the service of citizens: issues and challenges”;

• “The data protection requirement of free, specific, informed and unambiguous consent” when

the Ethics Day of the Hospital Ethics Committee;

• data breaches during the Cybersecurity Breakfast “Notification 101: How to face data breaches and

security incidents? » ;

• the concepts of “Data protection by design” and “Data protection by default” with Galexy.

25

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD

1.3 DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDANCES

All guidance and guidelines can be downloaded from the CNPD website: www.cnpd.lu

CCTV Guidelines
Following the entry into force of the GDPR, the CNPD wished to recall certain principles and certain obligations
applicable in this regard. It has therefore developed guidelines for those responsible for the
processing wishing to have or having recourse to video surveillance devices.

Contrary to the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data (repealed by the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission
National Data Protection Regime and the General Data Protection Regime), the GDPR does not define
not the notion of "surveillance". In addition, one of the direct consequences of the GDPR is that it is no longer necessary
to request prior authorization from the CNPD to install a video surveillance system.

26

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 In its guidelines, the CNPD reiterated certain principles (principle of lawfulness of processing, principle of
purpose, principle of transparency, principle of necessity and proportionality) and certain applicable obligations
in CCTV. The supervisory authority also answers the question whether it is necessary to carry out a
impact analysis relating to data protection in the field of video surveillance.

Image Rights Guidelines
With the introduction of the GDPR, the CNPD is regularly asked about the legality of the shooting and publication.
photos of people in relation to the rules resulting from this new legislation. The image of a person is
privacy of that person and constitutes personal data. The image of a person is therefore
protected by two legal provisions, the right to the image as developed in application of the right to respect for the
privacy and the right to the protection of personal data arising essentially from the GDPR.

The CNPD has adopted these guidelines to clarify the general conditions for the exercise of image rights and the
protection of the image as personal data. It aims to answer two main questions:

• What should be observed when taking photos?
• What precautions should be taken when posting photos?

Practical guide for associations
This guide aims to provide an overview and general guidance on data protection to associations
Nonprofit.

It is mainly and above all intended for associations whose activity is limited to processing data.
usual and necessary for the management of a so-called “classic” or “traditional” association.

It is not suitable for providing comprehensive guidance to associations which, by the nature of their activities, deal
personal data (in terms of volume, sensitivity, etc.) for purposes that go beyond this framework
usual (e.g. non-profit associations covered by the "ASFT" law (amended law of 8 September 1998
regulating relations between the State and organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields) which
work in the social, family, therapeutic fields, etc.).

In its guide, the CNPD addresses the following points:

• Reminder of some basic notions
• The establishment of the register
• The legitimacy of the processing of personal data
• Information of the persons concerned

27

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT • Respect for the rights of data subjects
• The Data Protection Officer
• Outsourcing
• Other more specific obligations

Guidelines on data protection rules in the context of social elections
These guidelines aim to guide employers, social partners and employees in the context of
the organization of social elections.

Following legislative changes in 2018, the system of prior authorizations and prior notifications
does not exist anymore. In the context of the organization and conduct of the elections of staff representatives and
employee representatives on the boards of public limited companies, employers do not
can therefore no longer submit a formal compliance commitment relating to the single notification decision of the
September 14, 2007 (Deliberation No. 108/2007 - social elections), although this is no longer provided for in the
legislation.

28

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Notwithstanding the removal of the prior formalities to be carried out with the CNPD, the principles and obligations
defined by the applicable data protection legislation must nevertheless be respected by
the controllers.

In its guidance, the CNPD explains the measures to be taken by employers or heads of establishments and
describes what must be done regarding the processing of data relating to social elections.

EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF OPINIONS

 

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

1.4 OPINIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (e) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter "the GDPR"), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the CNPD “advises,
in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions and
bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

29

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT In 2018, the National Commission issued 27 opinions on draft laws or Grand-Ducal regulations.
A selection of opinions is summarized below. All notices can be viewed on the CNPD website at
the address https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/rapports/index.html

 

A) FIGHT AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING AND AGAINST THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM

On January 18, 2018, the CNPD advised of draft law no. 7128 transposing the provisions relating to
professional obligations and the powers of the supervisory authorities in the fight against money laundering and
terrorist financing of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or financing
terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing
Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC.

The purpose of the bill is to amend current Luxembourg legislation, in particular the amended law
of 12 November 2004 on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, in order to
to comply with new European rules, and more particularly Directive (EU) 2015/849 relating to
preventing the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or the financing of
terrorism. Some aspects of this Directive and the draft law involve the collection, analysis, storage and
the sharing of personal data of a multitude of data subjects both by professionals
falling within the scope of the amended law of 12 November 2004, only by the authorities responsible for
supervision of professionals.

Taking into account the scope of the bill, the National Commission limited its observations to questions
raised by the provisions of the draft law, causing risks for the persons concerned or bringing
changes following the entry into force of the GDPR or the Police and Justice Directive.

 

B) ORGAN DONATIONS

On 31 January 2018, the CNPD issued an opinion on the subject of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to
the organization and working methods of the national organ donation coordination service.

The purpose of this draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to define the organization and working methods of the service
national coordination body for the removal and transplantation of organs. This national coordinating service
has in particular the task of recording in electronic form the data referred to in Annex I of the Regulation
Grand-Ducal of 27 August 2013 concerning the characterization, transport and exchange of organs intended for
transplantation. In addition, it establishes and maintains a list of coordinators involved in the transplantation and
organ procurement, and a list of patients awaiting an organ transplant.

30

3CNPD2018 ANNUAL REPORTACTIVITIES IN 2018 In its opinion, the National Commission addressed the following points: the role of the controller, the
purposes of the processing, the categories of data processed, the origin of the data, the persons having access to the
data and the retention period of the data.

 

C) EXECUTION IN FISCAL MATTERS OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE GDPR

On March 29, 2018, the National Commission ruled on draft law no. 7250 implementing,
in tax matters, the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April
2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC and amending: 1) the general law
modified tax of May 22, 1931 (“Abgabenordnung”); 2) of the amended law of 29 March 2013 relating to
administrative cooperation in the tax field; 3) of the law of 18 December 2015 relating to the Standard
common declaration (NCD); 4) of the law of July 24, 2015 relating to FATCA.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill intends to allow the Administration of direct contributions
(hereinafter: “the ACD”) to rely on some of the limitations set out in Article 23(2) of the GDPR
in the performance of the missions legally assigned to the ACD, including the obligations arising from agreements
international.

In view of the nature of the provisions contained in this bill, which relate directly to the subject of the
protection of personal data, and more particularly the rights of data subjects,
the National Commission regretted in its opinion that it had not been formally referred to the draft law by
Honorable Minister of Finance. For this reason and pursuant to Article 32, paragraph 3, letter (f) of the
modified law of August 2, 2002, the National Commission took the decision to refer itself.

In a first general part, the CNPD specified the extent of the limitations of Article 23 of the GDPR, and the
appropriate safeguards that must be in place so that the conditions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article
are respected.

In a second part, it examined in more detail each of sections 1 and 2 of the bill, in order to determine
if they present appropriate safeguards. Finally, she made some more specific comments,
relating to clauses 4 and 5 of the bill.

 

D) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SHARED CARE RECORD

On April 5, 2018, the CNPD issued an opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and
conditions for setting up the shared care file.

31

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT This project establishes the regulatory framework applicable to the shared care file (hereinafter “the DSP”). It is taken into
application of article 60quater of the Social Security Code, introduced by the law of 17 December 2010 on
reform of the health care system.

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation details the terms and conditions for setting up the DSP. He thus sets the big
principles applicable to the creation of the DSP (article 2), its activation and access by the holder of the said file (article
3), its closure and deletion (article 4), access to the DSP by healthcare professionals (article 5), the rights
of access, writing and opposition of the holder (article 6), to non-emancipated minor holders and adult holders
protected by law (article 7), the access and writing rights of healthcare professionals (article 8), the traceability
access and actions (article 9), the deadline for transferring data to the DSP (article 10), the security of the
national electronic platform (article 11), the technical procedures for submitting data to the DSP and
interoperability (Article 12) and cross-border cooperation and exchanges (Article 13).

The National Commission limited its observations to the provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
an impact on privacy and the protection of personal data. The CNPD has

32

3ANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 pronounced in particular on the basis of the legitimacy of the creation of the DSP, the question of the responsibility for the processing,
the question of sanctions, the creation, activation, closure and deletion of the DSP, access by the holder and
by health professionals, the traceability of access and actions, the deadline for submitting data to the DSP
and the security of the national electronic platform.

 

E) REORGANIZATION OF THE STATE INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

In 2018, the CNPD published two additional opinions relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implemented
of the law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service.

In 2016, the CNPD had already issued its opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted in execution of the
future law on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted
in execution of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the methods of processing of personal data by
the National Security Authority.

By letter dated December 18, 2017, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to
to decide on the amendments made to the aforementioned draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

In its opinion, the National Commission recalled that a first draft Grand-Ducal regulation on
creation and setting the operating procedures of a file relating to the processing of personal data
by the State Intelligence Service had already been submitted to the CNPD for an opinion in 2013 and gave rise to
the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation
taken in execution of article 4 of the amended law of June 15, 2004 on the organization of the Intelligence Service
of the State and the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted pursuant to article 23 of the law of 15 June 2004
relating to the classification of parts and security clearances.

In its additional opinions of 2018, the National Commission reviewed the amendments that
given rise to observations concerning in particular the categories of personal data processed by the
State intelligence service, the duration of data retention, access to data by agents of the
SRE and data logging.

 

F) ORGANIZATION OF THE CNPD AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GDPR

In 2018, the CNPD issued two additional opinions on government amendments to the draft
Law No. 7184 Establishing the National Commission for Data Protection and Implementation
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such

33

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting the processing regime and the conditions and
procedures for the advancement of civil servants and repealing the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.

In the first opinion of 25 April 2018, the CNPD limited its observations to amendment no. 28 which
inserts a new section 71 into the bill. This new article 71 is intended to replace article
L. 261-1 of the Labor Code by a new text. The National Commission asked itself several questions
fundamental as to the maintenance of this provision as well as its conformity with European case law
and GDPR.

On June 8, 2018, the CNPD adopted a second opinion following a series of parliamentary amendments, adopted
as of May 14, 2018.

 

G) RENITA

On April 27, 2018, the CNPD advised of draft law no. 7248 relating to the financing of extension works
and improvement of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network for the services of
Luxembourg security and emergency services and amending the law of 20 May 2014 relating to the
financing of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network for security and emergency services
Luxembourgish.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill aims, on the one hand, to strengthen the financial means in order to "welcome
new users and to improve the functioning of the network” and on the other hand, “to confer a
legal basis for the processing of personal data concerning public officials of the authorities,
administrations and public bodies resulting from the use of communication equipment and services
RENITA”.

In view of the large number of agents concerned and the risk of breach of privacy
agents in their place of work, the National Commission welcomed the fact that the
government intends to base the processing of personal data processed through the RENITA network in
national law.

As part of its opinion, the National Commission limited itself to making a few observations relating to
in article 3 of the draft law which inserts a new article 5 in the aforementioned law of 20 May 2014. Comments
concern, among other things, the controllers, the purposes of the processing, the methods of access to the
personal data, the retention period of GPD geolocation data, CDR traffic and
recording of messages and conversations.

34

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 H) INTERNET SALE OF MEDICINES FOR HUMAN USE TO THE PUBLIC

On July 9, 2018, the CNPD advised of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning: 1. Internet sales at
public of medicinal products for human use; 2. preparing, dividing, packaging or repackaging
medicines for human use.

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to implement the law of 7 June 2017 amending the amended law of 4 August 1975
concerning the manufacture and importation of medicines and 2. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning
dispensing drugs to the public.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this project has two parts:

1. the procedures for implementing the quality and safety rules governing the preparation operations,
division, packaging or repackaging of drugs in dispensaries or pharmacies
hospital;

2. the procedures for implementing the distance sale to the public of non-prescription medicines

with a view to adapting the legislation on medicinal products for human use to European law.

The National Commission limited its observations to the provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
an impact on privacy and the protection of personal data. She tackled
the issues of subcontracting, responsibilities and skills of staff and the account
personal electronics.

 

I) CREATION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORITY

On July 16, 2018, the CNPD notified draft law n° 6961 on 1. the creation of the National Security Authority
(hereinafter "ANS") and 2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code.

Previously, in 2013, the CNPD had already issued an opinion on a draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken
pursuant to article 23 of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security.

the 2018 opinion,

In
the National Commission commented on several amendments, in particular
concerning the databases to which the ANS can access, the retention period or the
log files.

35

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD

J) MODERNIZATION OF BANKRUPTCY LAW

On July 16, 2018, the CNPD gave its opinion on draft law no. 6539 relating to the preservation of companies
and modernizing bankruptcy law.

On 20 November 2015, the CNPD had already issued an initial opinion on this bill in which it formulated
various observations concerning in particular the problem of judicial data, the collection of data
on companies in difficulty, the right of access, the creation of a legal basis for the transmission of certain
judgments to the (secretariat of the) Economic Committee, the request for communication of information from the
(secretariat of) Economic Committee and the problem of the list of protests.

In the 2018 opinion, the National Commission limited its observations to the amendments which gave rise to
observations relating to respect for private life and the protection of personal data.
More specifically, these amendments concerned the determination of the controller(s), the
purposes of the processing of personal data and the nature and categories of data processed.

 

K) EMPLOYMENT INCLUSION ASSISTANCE ACTIVITY

On July 16, 2018, the CNPD gave its opinion on bill no. 7269 supplementing the Labor Code by
creating an activity to assist with inclusion in employment for disabled employees and employees
in external reclassification.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill aims "to facilitate the integration, and above all the retention in employment of
people with the status of disabled employee or being in external reclassification, by creating an activity
referred to as "employment inclusion assistance".

The National Commission limited its observations to the provisions of the bill having an impact on the
privacy and the protection of personal data.

She particularly welcomed the degree of detail with which the authors of the bill specified the data to be
personal nature than the application form for assistance with inclusion in employment drawn up by the Agency for
the development of employment (ADEM) was to contain.

Taking into account the principles of legality and legal certainty, the CNPD suggested to the authors of the draft
law to specify in the body of the text the retention period of the data contained in the assistance file.
Indeed, Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (e) of the GDPR requires the data controller to ensure that
the data it processes are not kept for a period exceeding that necessary for the performance of the
purposes for which they are collected and processed.

36

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018

L) MINIMUM CONTENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL HOSPITAL PATIENT FILE

AND CLINICAL DISCHARGE SUMMARY

On October 19, 2018, the CNPD notified the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum content of the
individual file of the hospital patient and the clinical discharge summary.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to standardize the content of the individual file
of the hospital patient, as well as the clinical discharge summary. Indeed, article 37 of the law of 8 March 2018 relating
to hospital establishments and hospital planning provides for the establishment of said hospital file
which is supposed to trace, in a chronological and faithful way, the state of health of the patient and its evolution during the
supported. The article in question specifies that “the minimum content of the individual file of the hospital patient
and the clinical discharge summary is determined by Grand-Ducal regulation, the opinion of the National Commission for
data protection having been requested. »

In its opinion, the CNPD notably addressed the issues of the content of the hospital file, the scope
application, patient identification and file accessibility.

 

M) REGISTER OF BENEFICIAL OWNERS

On November 22, 2018, the CNPD notified draft law no. 7217 establishing a register of beneficial owners and
transposing several provisions of European directives.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill intends to adapt Luxembourg legislation to the requirements
international standards on the transparency of legal persons which derive from Article 30 of the
Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing,
amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/
of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC.

The bill aims to establish a central register of beneficial owners whose mission is to
retention and provision of information on the beneficial owners of legal persons.

Having already been consulted by the Ministry of Justice at the stage of the analyzed draft law, the Commission
national authority limited itself to commenting on the roles and responsibilities of the controller,
the registered entities, the data kept by the registered entities, the data appearing in the
register, access to the data contained in the register, retention period and the rights of persons
concerned.

37

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD

N) MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS

On December 7, 2018, the CNPD gave its opinion on draft law no. 7126 relating to sanctions
municipal administrative authorities amending 1) the Penal Code, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the municipal law
amended on December 13, 1988.

The main objective of the bill is to meet “the need for municipalities to have an instrument
making it possible to fight against petty crime, acts of vandalism and other incivilities that criminal law and
the repressive bodies no longer make it possible to contain them effectively (…)”.

For its part, the National Commission limited its observations to the questions raised by the provisions
of the bill under examination dealing with aspects related to respect for private life and the protection of
personal data. His observations concerned in particular the access of the sanctioning official
in the national register of natural persons and the creation of registers of administrative sanctions
communal.

 

O) MANDATORY NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN DISEASES

On 7 December 2018, the National Commission notified the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the
law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory notification of certain diseases and repeal of the Grand-Ducal regulation
of September 10, 2004 on the designation of infectious or transmissible diseases subject to notification
OBLIGATORY.

The purpose of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to draw up a list of notifiable diseases
and diseases presenting a serious threat to public health, as well as the period within which the
declaration must be made to the Director of Health or his delegate by doctors, dentists and
managers of medical analysis laboratories.

In its opinion, the CNPD commented on:

• the basis of legitimacy for the creation of a centralized infectious disease system;
• the personal data intended to appear in the centralized system;
• the processing of genetic data;
• the rights of the persons concerned and the duration of the storage of the data and
• accessibility to the centralized system and the implementation of appropriate security measures.

38

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 CHANGE IN THE NUMBER OF INQUIRIES
IN WRITING

1200

1000

800

600

400

200

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

 

1.5 PROCESSING OF INQUIRIES

The National Commission received 1,112 written requests for information in 2018, more than double
than in 2017 when it received 528.
The main reason for the increase in requests is the entry into force of the new general regulations
on data protection on May 25, 2018. The CNPD has received many questions on compliance
the new legislation throughout the year and more particularly during the months of May and June.

About two-thirds of the requests came from businesses. The others came from citizens, administrations
public authorities and lawyers who also regularly contact the National Commission.

The themes that come up most often are:

• video surveillance (including private home video surveillance and workplace video surveillance);
• the data protection officer (his role, the conditions for being appointed, the procedure for declaring a

DPO with the CNPD);

• the right of access (for data subjects: how do I exercise my right of access? and for those responsible
of processing: how and under what conditions to grant a request for access?) and the other rights of
data subjects (right to erasure of data, right of opposition, right of rectification, etc.).

Other recurring questions include:

• the territorial scope of the GDPR (for companies established outside the EU, including issues

related to the designation of a main or sole establishment and a main supervisory authority);

39

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • certifications (What is the scope of the “GDPR-CARPA” certification?);
• the anonymization and pseudonymization of personal data (and their impact on the rules

applicable to data protection);

• the consent of the persons concerned (In which cases and under which conditions should it be requested?);
• cookies (What are the rules for web hosts using cookies?);
• data breaches (What constitutes a data breach and when should it be

notify the CNPD?);

• image rights (for ASBLs, on social networks, in schools, etc.);
• drones (for those concerned: a drone flew over my property, what are my means
shares? for data controllers: under what conditions and where can I fly a drone and film
using this one?);

• questions related to the use of the CNPD's "GDPR Compliance Support Tool";
• the retention period of the data (How long do we have the right to keep the personal data

staff of our customers? or our employees?);

• prospecting / marketing (Under what conditions can we send newsletters or emails

advertising to our customers?);

employer of a candidate?);

• human resources (Under what conditions can a potential employer obtain information from the former

• subcontracting (What are the conditions relating to the use of a subcontractor? Does the CNPD have

model subcontracts?);

• the use of the registration number (Under what conditions can we use the registration number of

our employees or our customers?);

• dashcams (Is the use of dashcams permitted or prohibited in Luxembourg?).

40

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 THE INTERNAL MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM (IMI)

Since May 25, 2018, the IMI system has been the IT platform that guarantees the correct implementation
implementation of cooperation between the supervisory authorities as stipulated in the general regulation on
data protection (GDPR). The supervisory authorities of the Member States must cooperate
closely to ensure uniform protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the protection
data across the European Union.

Today, more than ever, mutual assistance and coordinated decision-making in
cross-border data protection cases are of utmost importance.

In addition, the European Data Protection Board issues opinions and takes decisions
binding when national data protection authorities have positions
different in a cross-border case.

This high degree of administrative cooperation across Europe now takes place through
through the IMI system.

Using the IMI system, the control authorities will be able to:

• determine which is the lead supervisory authority in a cross-border dispute;
• cooperate to reach a settlement of cross-border disputes;
• request and provide assistance to the supervisory authorities of other Member States;
• organize joint operations involving the supervisory authorities of several States

members.

2 COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

 

2.1 PROCESSING OF COMPLAINTS

If a request from an individual to a data controller has not been followed up, they may
contact the CNPD. The processing of complaints from data subjects is one of its
assignments.

In 2018, the CNPD received 450 complaints:

• 376 people called directly on the services of the CNPD when they felt that there had been a

violation of the law or interference with the exercise of their rights.

• 74 complaints were transmitted to the CNPD by the internal market information system (IMI).

The number of complaints thus more than doubled compared to the previous year, from 200 in 2017 to 450 in
2018.

41

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The entry into force of the GDPR on 25 May 2018 had a significant impact on the number of complaints received by the
CNPD. During the first 5 months of the year, the CNPD received an average of 18 complaints per month, while for
the next 7 months, she received 51 per month.

Almost a quarter of the complaints (24%) were motivated by the non-respect of the right of access by the data controllers.
These have denied citizens access to their data, ignored their requests, or failed to give them enough information.
information in relation to the legal obligations to be complied with in terms of the right to information and access. As such, the
closures, respectively suspensions of customer accounts, in particular by e-commerce companies, are
subject of recurring complaints. In such situations, citizens do not always understand the reasons for
which the status of their account has changed due to the sometimes insufficient information provided to them
by companies. Often they want confirmation that their data is no longer being processed.

Requests for deletion or rectification of data to which the desired consequences had not been
reserved constituted 16% of the complaints received in 2018. These included, among other things, requests for the closure
accounts with online services or requests to erase personal data (email addresses,
evaluations, etc.) accessible on Internet sites.

42

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS

500

400

300

200

100

0

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

REASONS FOR COMPLAINTS

Refusal to access data (24%)
Request for erasure or rectification not complied with (16%)
Legality of certain administrative or commercial practices (15%)
Monitoring (10%)
Opposition to prospecting or complaints against spam (9%)
Transmission of data to third parties (9%)
Security measure (3%)
Security Breach (2%)
Right to information (2%)
Exercise of the right to be forgotten (2%)
Image rights (1%)

In 15% of cases, complainants asked the CNPD to verify the legality of certain administrative practices
or commercial. They questioned in particular:

• the general terms and conditions relating to online businesses or services;
• the retention period of the data collected (eg: purchase history);
• requesting documents such as identity card or passport for identity verification purposes;
• the publication of personal data online (eg on a social network);

43

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • unlawful or excessive collection of data;
• the lawfulness of processing personnel files;
• the creation of directories without the consent of the persons concerned;
• the taking of photos without the knowledge of the data subject;
• automated individual decisions.

The majority of inquiries related to surveillance in the workplace (10% of complaints) concerned video surveillance.
Complainants have also contacted the CNPD when they believe that geolocation systems have
been used by their employer in an unlawful manner (e.g. surveillance outside working hours).

9% of complaints related to the right of opposition and prospecting. The CNPD had to intervene on several
times when sending unsolicited emails or SMS or in cases where the complainants wanted
know the origin of the data used by the organizations/companies with a view to prospecting them.

The unauthorized transmission of data to third parties has also led to a number of complaints
(9%). This includes, for example, posting data (videos, photos, etc.) online without protecting them.
sufficiently or the use of data for purposes other than those for which they were collected
initially. Recurring complaints are about sending emails to people they weren't
intended or sending confidential emails but distributed collectively and visibly to all recipients
(“CC” instead of “BCC”). The CNPD is also receiving more and more complaints concerning consultations
not authorized in the national register of natural persons by agents of the public sector.

 

2.2 CHECKS PERFORMED

The CNPD strengthened its survey methodology in 2018 in order to better monitor compliance with the GDPR (preparation
an annual strategy, carrying out general and specific thematic risk analyses, etc.).

Insofar as the GDPR requires a high degree of transparency from controllers and processors
towards the persons concerned and the supervisory authorities, the CNPD considered that it is its duty to apply
for its part, increased transparency in the performance of its missions.

To ensure compliance with applicable data protection legislation, the National Commission
has investigative powers under which it can:

• obtain from the controller or the processor access to all the personal data which

are processed and to all the information necessary for the exercise of its missions;

44

3ANNUALREPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 • obtain access to all the premises of the controller and the processor, in particular to any installation

and any means of processing;

• carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits.

This investigative power excludes residential premises.

There are two types of intervention:
• on-site checks
• data protection audits

 

A) ON-THE-SPOT CHECK

The CNPD carries out proactive or reactive on-site inspections based on incidents, complaints, information
reported in the media or following a previous check. These checks are carried out on a scale
"individual" depending on the facts reported to the CNPD. They are therefore only intended for those responsible
treatment concerned by the facts reported.

12 on-site investigations took place in 2018 in the fields of video surveillance, geolocation,
advertising and marketing.

 

B) DATA PROTECTION AUDITS

As part of the entry into force since May 25, 2018 of the GDPR, CNPD has adapted its strategy and implemented
place so-called "proactive" surveys. These surveys are carried out in the form of thematic audits covering
on GDPR obligations. These audits are carried out in several organizations and will allow the CNPD
to assess the level of compliance of organizations with the GDPR.

45

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT To carry out these audits, the CNPD relies in particular on the general guidance documents provided by the
European Data Protection Board (EDPB) such as
GDPR guidelines, recommendations and best practices.

Given the impact of the new role of the data protection officer and the importance of its integration into
company, and considering that EDPB guidelines on this subject have been available since December 2016,
the CNPD has decided to launch a thematic audit on the function of data protection officer (DPO).
Thus, 25 audit procedures were opened in 2018.

The objective of this campaign is to verify the compliance of organizations with the obligations of the GDPR in terms of
appointment of the DPO, his missions and functions.

The selection of the entities in which this audit is carried out was based on the following criteria:

• the size of the organization,
• the sensitivity of the data processed and
•  the area of the activity.

It is planned to publish the results of the anonymized audits in the form of guidelines in order to serve as good
examples or examples to avoid to other data controllers or interested processors.

 

2.3 NOTIFICATION OF DATA BREACHES

Two types of data breaches must be notified to the CNPD:

• data breaches under the General Data Protection Regulation and
• data breaches in the electronic communications sector.

 

A) DATA BREACHES UNDER THE GDPR

Since May 25, 2018, a breach of security resulting, accidentally or unlawfully, in the destruction,
the loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of personal data must be managed in accordance with the
requirements of Articles 33 and 34 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Data controllers must notify personal data breaches to the CNPD within
a period of 72 hours after becoming aware of it if the violation in question is likely to cause a
risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

46

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 NUMBER OF VIOLATIONS DECLARED (PER MONTH)

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

May

June

July

August

September

October

November

December

The following statistics are based on personal data breaches that have been notified to
the CNPD. They do not reflect the complete number of security incidents related to personal data
staff. Data controllers are required to maintain documentation of all incidents of
security involving personal data.

172 data breaches were notified to the CNPD between May 25 and December 31, 2018.

47

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT CAUSES OF VIOLATIONS

Non-malicious internal act (57%)
Malicious internal act (7%)
Non-malicious external act (3%)
Malevolent external act (27%)
Others (6%)

The main cause of personal data breach remains human error (internal act not
malicious).

Most human errors occur:

• when an existing procedure is not followed;
• when an existing security rule is circumvented: this type of case has been the subject of incidents with consequences

important;

• when staff are not sufficiently aware of the rules of confidentiality to be applied;
• following a careless error: depending on the context, the implementation of a control mechanism before

transmission of data (e.g. 4-eye principle) would have avoided this type of incident.

Malicious external acts account for more than a quarter of reported breaches. This type of incident has

48

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 NATURE OF INCIDENTS

Technical problem

Lost, stolen papers,
insecure place

Malware, malicious software

Mail lost, opened

Phishing, phishing

Lost or stolen device

Involuntary publication

Disclosure of personal data
from the wrong person

Hacking, hacking

Personal data
sent to the wrong recipient

0

10

20

30

40

50

often have a greater impact on the people involved. In many cases, these acts target access
or obtaining data that allows financial transactions to be carried out without the knowledge of the persons concerned
(e.g. interception of bank payment card data, phishing to obtain connection information
to a payment service, impersonation to carry out a financial transaction, etc.).

Malicious internal acts occurred mainly during the departure, voluntary or not, of employees
of an organization: this situation leads people to copy data in order to potentially use it
in their new situation. Similarly, situations of cessation of activity / merger / takeover of companies are
periods at risk for unauthorized exfiltration of data.

The other scenarios are related to technical bugs which often result in the disclosure of data to
personal nature to unauthorized third parties (e.g. setting up or updating a new online service,
unforeseen case of use of a service, etc.).

49

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT NATURE OF IMPACT

Confidentiality (94%)
Availability (4%)
Integrity (2%)

Almost all data breaches have an impact related to loss of data privacy
concerned.

More than half of security incidents are detected within 48 hours of their occurrence. Nevertheless,
the CNPD found that almost 18% of personal data breaches are only detected at
minimum one month after having occurred: these are more particularly incidents related to continuous violations
the organisation's security policy (e.g. management personnel send professional data
on their personal email to work from home and the personal email is hacked), data used by
employees when leaving an organization and also data theft linked to undetected hacks.

The CNPD also draws the attention of data controllers to the fact that a certain number of acts of
hacking and phishing are targeted at the management staff of an organization and their entourage (ex:
management assistant/secretary). These malicious acts are often aimed at obtaining information
enabling fraudulent financial transactions.

50

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 NUMBER OF PEOPLE POTENTIALLY IMPACTED
PER INCIDENT

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

CN

1

2 to 5

6 to 10

11 to 50

51 to 100

101 to
1000

1001 to
10000

More than
10000

(NC = number of people affected by the violation not known - this may be the case when
exfiltration of data from a system whose logging of data access to
personal character is poorly adapted or non-existent)

NUMBER OF DAYS BETWEEN BEGINNING OF INCIDENT
AND INCIDENT DETECTION

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

CN

1

2 to 5
days

6 to 10
days

11 to 30

days

31 to 60

days

Over 60

days

(NC = Start date of the incident not known)

51

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT More than half of security incidents are detected within 48 hours of their occurrence.
However, the CNPD found that almost 18% of personal data breaches are not detected
at least one month after having occurred: these are more particularly incidents linked to violations
of the organization's security policy (e.g. management personnel send the data
professionals on their personal email to work from home and the personal email is hacked), data
used by employees when leaving an organization and also data theft linked to hacking
not detected.

The CNPD also draws the attention of data controllers to the fact that a certain number of acts
hacking and phishing attacks are targeted at an organization's management personnel and those around them
(e.g. assistant / secretary to the management). These malicious acts are often aimed at obtaining
information enabling fraudulent financial transactions.

Points of attention identified:

1. The CNPD notes that many organizations have procedures in place to manage and act when a
personal data incident occurs. However, many organizations are less
mature regarding the detection of security incidents.

2. The CNPD particularly wishes to draw the attention of organizations to what they must not
communicate, in the notifications, the personal data concerned by the breach and the
personal information of the people involved in the data breaches.

3. As a reminder, when an organization sends a notification of violation to the CNPD, the latter acknowledges receipt.
of notification. The CNPD will carry out subsequent communication with the organization which only notifies
in the event of a request for additional information in connection with the notification. Under the principle of
accountability, the CNPD only intervenes in the management of the violation if it considers it
necessary.

 

B) DATA BREACHES IN THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR

In accordance with Regulation (EU) No. 611/2013 of the European Commission of June 24, 2013, suppliers
electronic communications services available to the public, such as fixed telephone companies/
mobile phone or Internet access providers, must notify the CNPD within 24 hours of the observation
of a breach of security and confidentiality of personal data and, in addition, inform their
subscribers in the event that the incident observed is likely to adversely affect the level of protection of their lives
privacy and data concerning them.

52

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 In order to facilitate the task of providers of electronic communications services, the Commission
Nationale has a security breach notification form available on its website. This
form contains all the relevant questions that suppliers will have to answer in such a
situation.

In 2018, no data breach in the electronic communications sector was reported to the CNPD.

 

2.4 APPOINTMENT OF DATA PROTECTION OFFICERS

Since the entry into force of the GDPR, data controllers and processors must
communicate to the CNPD the contact details of the data protection officer (DPD) they have, if necessary
appropriate, appointed.

As of December 31, 2018, 818 data controllers communicated the contact details of their DPO to the CNPD.
A total of 493 natural or legal persons were declared to the CNPD.

This figure represents a significant increase compared to the year 2017 when 150 natural persons or
morals were approved to carry out the activity of data protection officer (under the former regime of the
law of 2002).

As such, the CNPD has put a communication form online, as well as a dedicated site that answers questions
frequently asked.

The appointment of a DPO is mandatory in three cases:

• the processing is carried out by a public authority or a public body, with the exception of courts acting

in the exercise of their judicial function;

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of processing operations
which, due to their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring on a large scale
scale of persons concerned; Or

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of large-scale processing
scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9 or of personal data relating
criminal convictions and offenses referred to in Article 10.

Unless it is clear that an organization is not required to appoint a DPO, it is recommended to document
the internal analysis carried out to determine whether or not a DPO should be appointed.

53

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD
 

2.5 PRIOR CONSULTATION AS PART OF A RELATIVE IMPACT ASSESSMENT
 

TO DATA PROTECTION

If an organization has identified processing of personal data likely to generate high risks
for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, it must carry out, for each of these processing operations, an analysis
impact assessment (Data Protection Impact Assessment or DPIA).

The data protection impact analysis allows:
• to develop a processing of personal data or a product that respects privacy,
• to assess the impact on the privacy of the persons concerned,
• to demonstrate that the fundamental principles of the regulation are respected.

The challenge is to assess the risks to data protection from the point of view of the persons concerned.

In accordance with Article 35.4 of the GDPR, the CNPD has drawn up a list of types of processing operations for
which it considers that a data protection impact assessment is mandatory in all cases. He
These are the following types of operations:

1. Processing operations relating to genetic data as defined in Article 4 (13) of the
GDPR, in combination with at least one other criterion listed in the EDPB guidelines
(European Data Protection Board), with the exception of healthcare professionals who provide
health ;

2. Processing operations which include biometric data as defined in Article 4 (14) GDPR
for the purpose of identifying the data subjects in combination with at least one other criterion of the lines
guidelines of the EDPB;

3. Processing operations involving the combination, matching or comparison of
personal data collected from processing operations with different purposes
(from the same or different controllers) - provided that they produce effects
with respect to the natural person or have a significant and similar effect on the person
physical ;

4. Processing operations which consist of or which include a regular and systematic monitoring of
activities of employees - provided that they can produce legal effects with respect to employees or
affect them so significantly;

54

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 5. File processing operations likely to contain personal data of all
of the national population, provided that such a DPIA has not already been carried out as part of an analysis
general impact in the context of the adoption of this legal basis;

6. Processing operations for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
meaning of articles 63 to 65 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime;

7. Processing operations which consist of systematic monitoring of the location of persons

physical;

8. Processing operations based on the indirect collection of personal data in conjunction
with at least one other criterion from the EDPB guidelines when it is not possible / not feasible to guarantee
the right to information.

It should be emphasized that the current list is not an exhaustive list of all types of transaction.
treatment requiring the performance of a DPIA. Thus the absence of a type of processing operation on
this list does not necessarily mean that a DPIA is not required. The list is limited to
processing activities that will always require the performance of a DPIA. For processing activities
not on this list, data controllers should rely on Article 35(1)
of the GDPR and on the WP248 guidelines of the Article 29 Working Party to assess the need
of a DPIA.

If following the risk analysis on the rights and freedoms of the data subjects of the DPIA, there results a (or
several) high residual risk(s) if the controller does not take measures to mitigate it, it
must consult the CNPD, which will give an opinion on the planned processing.

In this case, the processing cannot be implemented before receipt of the opinion of the CNPD, and if necessary,
the implementation of additional measures.

In 2018, the CNPD did not receive any request for prior consultation that met the criteria as stipulated in
the GDPR.

The CNPD plans to carry out a communication in the coming months in relation to the DPIAs in order to
support organizations in their implementation of analyses.

55

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD

2.6 CERTIFICATIONS

“Certifications” represent a new tool for data controllers and processors contributing to
demonstrate that their processing operations comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
As part of numerous exchanges between the CNPD and companies during the GDPR preparation phase,
they have shown particular interest in this new possibility.

The CNPD has been approached by two players who wish to submit their draft certification scheme for
approval.

56

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 Convinced of the added value that certification can offer, the CNPD has also taken a particularly
proactive by developing, together with professionals in the sector, a certification scheme.

Thus, the scheme called "GDPR-CARPA" (GDPR - Certified Assurance Report based Processing Activities) has
was submitted for public consultation in June 2018.

The CNPD has oriented its work according to two pillars:

• The first pillar concerns the certification criteria that must be met by an organization that wants
some of its data processing is certified. This pillar was a priority in the sense that a
organization applying for certification of this processing must, where applicable, prior to the procedure
of certification, put in place specific measures to be able to respond favorably to the criteria. THE
feedback that was provided as part of the public consultation enabled the CNPD to finalize the work
of this pillar. Organizations interested in certifying treatments are encouraged to review these
criteria and assess the extent to which they want to take a proactive approach to prepare. THE
Interested organizations can contact the CNPD if they have any questions.

• The second pillar concerns the accreditation criteria that must be met by an organization wishing to act
as a certification body. While the GDPR-CARPA certification scheme, subject to consultation
already included a description of these criteria, the CNPD decided to continue to develop them,
in particular to align them with the work to develop guidance on the criteria that are currently
carried out at the level of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB). The objective is to ensure European consistency
the work of the CNPD, which will communicate these criteria to the EDPB after finalization of the said guidance. There
CNPD intends to continue to carry out the work in consultation with professionals in the sector who have
skills in the field of data protection and in the field of certification.

 

2.7 INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA

Personal data can circulate freely from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg within
the European Economic Area, as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected.

Indeed, Member States apply the same level of protection when processing data
personal character. A transfer within the European Economic Area is governed in the same way as a
transfer to Luxembourg and must therefore respect the general principles of the GDPR (respect in particular
of the principle of legality, compatibility of the communication with the original processing, information of the persons
concerned).

57

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD
 

A) TRANSFERS TO A COUNTRY OUTSIDE THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA WITH

AN ADEQUATE LEVEL OF PROTECTION

Any data controller who wishes to export personal data outside the Space
European economy must first find out about the adequate level of protection in the destination country. In effect,
where the third country is considered to offer an adequate level of protection, the transfer can be made
as if it were a transfer within the European Economic Area.

The “EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework”, or sphere of the European Union data protection shield –
United States, is a set of personal data protection principles to which companies established
in the United States of America are free to join.

Companies established in the European Economic Area may transfer personal data
that they process for American companies appearing on the “EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework”,
in the same way as transfers to countries recognized as “adequate” by the Commission take place
European.

The principles that these American companies must respect, negotiated between the American authorities and the
European Commission in 2016, are based on those of European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection
data, and were reassessed in 2017 and 2018 based on the General Data Protection Regulation.
They also intend to respond to the weaknesses of the previous so-called "Safe Harbor" agreement, negotiated in 2001 and
invalidated by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2015.

 
 

B) TRANSFERS TO A COUNTRY OUTSIDE THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA

NOT HAVING AN ADEQUATE LEVEL OF PROTECTION

For countries that are not members of the European Economic Area (European Union, Liechtenstein,
Norway and Iceland) or an international organization to which the data is transferred has not been
recognized as adequate by the European Commission, there are different possibilities for a transfer of
data.

In such a case, the CNPD recommends adopting, like its European counterparts, a step-by-step approach.
steps based on best practice and to consider providing adequate safeguards. THE
data exporters should therefore first try to find possibilities to carry out the transfer
using appropriate safeguards (contractual clauses, Binding Corporate Rules (BCR), codes of
conduct, certification mechanisms or specific safeguards for the transfer between authorities or bodies
public), and resort to derogations only in the absence of such safeguards.

58

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 Binding corporate rules
Binding corporate rules (BCR) help to ensure a
sufficient level of protection for data transferred within a group of companies both within and outside
outside the European Economic Area. This appropriate guarantee lends itself especially to groups of companies
multinationals implementing a large number of international data transfers.

The BCRs constitute a “charter for the protection of personal data” drawn up by a group of companies
which defines its policy on the transfer of personal data. This charter must be binding
and respected by all group entities, regardless of their country of establishment, as well as by all their
employees. In addition, it must confer on the persons concerned (customers, suppliers and/or employees) rights
enforceable with regard to the processing of their personal data.

BCRs have many advantages for a group of multinational companies:

• compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (Article 47);
• limitation of the appropriate safeguards to be implemented for each transfer (for example, the adoption of BCR
at group level avoids having to sign as many standard data protection clauses as there are
transfers);

• standardization of data protection practices within a group;
• internal guide to the protection of personal data, which contributes to the group's accountability

with respect to the GDPR;

• more flexible means adapted to the corporate culture;
• possibility of placing data protection as an “ethical concern of the group”.

59

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The BCR approval procedure takes place in several stages:

• identification of the main supervisory authority (“lead authority”),
• procedure for European cooperation between the principal supervisory authority (“lead authority”), the supervisory authorities

secondary (“co-reviewers”) and the other authorities concerned,

• (non-binding) opinion of the EDPB on the consolidated draft decision submitted by the supervisory authority

competent,

• approval (or not) of the BCRs by the principal supervisory authority, taking into account the opinion

of the EDPB.

In 2018, the PayPal group adopted new corporate rules. This mechanism lends itself well to
companies like PayPal, implementing a large number of international data transfers.
PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, S.C.A. is a credit institution established in Luxembourg and subject to the
supervision of the CSSF (Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier). Its parent company, PayPal Inc., is
located in California, USA. Until July 2015, the company was part of the eBay group, which owns
also a BCR charter validated by the CNPD. Following this split, PayPal wanted to have new
binding corporate rules in order to maintain a high level of data protection regardless of their
location.

Since PayPal's departure from the eBay group, the CNPD has cooperated as lead authority ("lead
authority”) with its European counterparts within the framework of the cooperation and recognition procedure
European mutual. Following the analysis carried out by the CNPD, all data protection authorities
have thus given their agreement to authorize at the national level transfers of data taking place
under these BCRs.

 

2.8 CORRECTIVE MEASURES AND SANCTIONS

In the event of processing contrary to the regulations in force, the CNPD has the power to adopt corrective measures
(e.g. warning, warning, temporary limitation, permanent limitation, prohibition of processing, fines
administrative, etc).

In 2018, it is necessary to distinguish between two periods:
• the period from 01/01/2018 to 19/08/2018 during which the former Data Protection Act 2002

was still applicable and

• the period from 20/08/2018 to 31/12/2018 during which the GDPR and the new national law of 2018 were

applicable.

60

3CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORTACTIVITIES IN 2018 Period from 01/01/2018 to 08/19/2018

Under article 33 of the 2002 law, the CNPD could take the following disciplinary sanctions:
• warn or admonish the data controller who has violated the obligations relating to security;
• lock, erase or destroy data subject to processing contrary to law;
• temporarily or permanently prohibit processing that is contrary to law;
• order the publication of a decision through the newspapers.
 
During this period, the CNPD adopted 7 sanctions, namely 3 temporary bans and 4 bans
definitive data processing contrary to the law.
 
Period from 20/08/2018 to 31/12/2018

Under the GDPR and the new law of 2018, the CNPD has the power to adopt corrective measures and
impose administrative fines.
 
34 complaints issued between 20/08/2018 and 31/12/2018 were subject to corrective measures, including
notably :
• warning or call to order;
• request to comply with the requests made by the data subject in order to exercise their rights;
• request for compliance or even
• request for rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing.
 
Violations by the controller of the GDPR may be subject to fines of up to
twenty million euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, the amount
the highest being retained.
 
The GDPR requires penalties to be "effective, proportionate and dissuasive" - this implies that the size
of the company, the seriousness of the facts, the extent of the violation, the damage, the number of people affected,
as well as the level of risk and the means of a company to achieve compliance are taken into account.
 
Recall that the legislator has chosen to limit the power of the CNPD to impose administrative fines,
insofar as it can only impose administrative fines against those responsible for the
treatment from the private sector, and not against the State or municipalities.

No fines were imposed by the CNPD during the four months following the entry into force of the law of
August 1, 2018.

61

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD
 

2.9 PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA IN CRIMINAL MATTERS
 

AS WELL AS IN TERMS OF NATIONAL SECURITY

In accordance with article 10 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime, the CNPD will draw up an annual report on
its activities, which includes a list of the types of violations notified and the types of sanctions imposed under
of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.

 

2.10 RETENTION OF TRAFFIC AND LOCATION DATA

European Directive 2006/24/EC on data retention had been transposed at national level by the law of
July 24, 2010 amending the law of May 30, 2005 on the protection of privacy in the communications sector
electronics. The objective of this directive was to keep for a certain period of time the data processed by the
telecommunications operators and Internet access providers for the purposes of research,
detecting and prosecuting offences. One of the major challenges of this directive was to maintain the balance between,
on the one hand, access to data processed by electronic communications providers in the context of the
fight against terrorism and serious crime, and on the other hand, the protection of the privacy of citizens.

However, the directive was annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union on April 8, 2014 by the judgment
“Digital Rights Ireland”. However, the national transposition laws have not been amended accordingly.
and the National Commission has not received any instructions in this context from its supervisory Ministry. She keeps
to send to it annually with a view to their continuation at the European Commission of statistics on the
retention of data under Articles 5 and 9. To this end, service providers or operators retain
and provide the National Commission, at its request, with information including in particular:

• “the cases in which information has been transmitted to the competent authorities in accordance with the

applicable national legislation,

• the period of time elapsed between the date from which the data was stored and the date on which the

competent authorities have requested their transmission,

• cases in which data requests could not be fulfilled. »

In 2018, the competent authorities made 4,766 requests to operators. This number has increased
slightly compared to 2017 when 4,759 requests were made. Of the 4,766 requests, 435
requests could not be met.

62

32018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 3 WORK AT INTERNATIONAL LEVEL

The activity of the National Commission was also marked by strong participation in European work,
dominated by complex and technical issues. This commitment was necessary to understand the subject
in all its scope and complexity.

The National Commission, represented by one or more of its members, participated in 2018 in various
working groups at European level. These included:

• the “Article 29” working party (established under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC), which brings together all
the European authorities as well as the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS). This group of
work has been replaced by the European Data Protection Board (EDPB or European Data Protection
Board) from May 25, 2018.

• the “Berlin Group”, dedicated to data protection in the electronic communications sector;
• the Spring Conference of European Data Protection Commissioners in Tirana;
• the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners in Brussels;
• the European “Case Handling Workshop” seminar in Budapest.

In addition, the members of the Article 17 supervisory authority (including two members of the CNPD)
took part alternately in meetings of the European joint supervisory authorities of Europol, the system
the “Schengen” information system, the European Customs Authorities Information System (CIS), the
visa information system (VIS) and the European information system Eurodac.

 

3.1 THE EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB – European Data Protection Board) is a body
independent European which contributes to the consistent application of data protection rules
within the European Union and encourages cooperation between EU authorities responsible for the protection of
data.

It is composed of representatives of the national data protection authorities and the Supervisor
European Data Protection Authority (EDPS). The EDPB is established by the General Regulations on the Protection of
Data (GDPR) and is based in Brussels. The European Commission has the right to take part in the activities and
Committee meetings, but does not have the right to vote.

63

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The EDPB has a secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. A Memorandum of Understanding defines the terms of the
cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS.

The EDPB aims to ensure the consistent application of the General Data Protection Regulation
as well as the European Directive on Data Protection in the field of law enforcement in the Union
European.

It can adopt general orientation documents in order to clarify the provisions of European legislative acts
in terms of data protection and, in this way, provide the actors concerned with a consistent interpretation
of their rights and obligations.

The GDPR also entrusts it with the mission of adopting decisions binding on the supervisory authorities.
to ensure consistent application of its provisions.

 

A) APPROVAL OF THE ARTICLE 29 WORKING GROUP GUIDELINES

On 25 May 2018, the EDPB replaced the Article 29 Working Party (G29) and approved guidelines
and working papers of his predecessor.

More specifically, these are the following documents:

1. Consent Guidelines (WP 259)
2. Transparency Guidelines (WP 260)
3. Guidelines on automated individual decisions and profiling (WP 251)
4. Data Breach Notification Guidelines (WP 250)
5. Guidelines on the right to data portability (WP 242)
6. Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and how to

determine whether the processing is “likely to create a high risk” (WP 248)

7. Guidelines for Data Protection Officers (DPOs) (WP 243)
8. Guidelines for Designating a Lead Supervisory Authority of a Data Controller

processor or processor (WP 244)

9. Statement on exemptions from the obligation to keep a record of processing activities in accordance with

to Art. 30(5) GDPR

10. Documents concerning “Binding Corporate Rules” (WP 263, WP 264, WP 265, WP 256,

WP 257)

11. Benchmarks for Suitability (WP 254)
12. Guidelines on Applying and Setting Administrative Fines for GDPR Purposes (WP 253)

64

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 B) GUIDELINES ADOPTED IN 2018

Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identification of certification criteria in accordance with articles
42 and 43 GDPR
These guidelines are limited in scope. This is not a procedures manual for certification
in accordance with the GDPR. The main objective of these guidelines is to identify the following,
requirements and criteria that may apply to all types of certification mechanisms issued
in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the GDPR.

To this end, the guidelines:

• examine the rationale for certification as an accountability tool;
• explain the key concepts of the certification provisions of Articles 42 and 43; And
• explain the scope of what can be certified under sections 42 and 43 and the purpose of this certification;
• contribute to ensuring that the result of the certification is significant, unambiguous, reproducible as much as

possible and comparable, regardless of the certifier.

Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations under Article 49 of the GDPR
These guidelines deal with derogations in the context of transfers of personal data to
third country.

The derogations referred to in Article 49 are therefore exemptions from the general principle that data
personal data can only be transferred to third countries if an adequate level of protection
is offered in the third country or if appropriate safeguards have been provided and if the data subjects
benefit from enforceable and effective rights in order to continue to benefit from their fundamental rights and guarantees.
As a result, and in accordance with the principles of law inherent in the European legal order, derogations must
be interpreted narrowly so that the exception does not become the rule. The title of article 49, which
indicates that derogations should be used for special situations (“Derogations for specific situations
particularities”), also goes in this direction.

In its guidelines, the EDPB reviews the following exemptions:

• the data subject has given explicit consent to the proposed transfer;
• the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the controller

or the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at the request of the data subject;

• the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in the interest of the person

concerned between the controller and another natural or legal person;

65

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • the transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest;
• the transfer is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims;
• the transfer is necessary to safeguard the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons,
when the data subject is physically or legally unable to give consent;

• transfer made from a public register;
• overriding legitimate interests.

Guidelines 3/2018 on territorial scope
The EDPB has adopted draft guidance which will promote a common understanding of the scope
territorial scope of the GDPR and will provide further clarification on the application of the GDPR in various situations,
in particular those where the controller or the processor is established outside the EU, in particular for the
appointment of a representative.

The guidelines are currently undergoing public consultation.

Accreditation Guidelines 4/2018
The EDPB adopted a revised version of the G29 accreditation guidelines, including a new
Annex. The draft guidelines were originally adopted by the G29 and submitted for consultation
public. The EDPB finalized its analysis and came to a conclusion on the final version. The purpose of the lines
guidelines is to provide guidance on the interpretation and implementation of the provisions of Article 43
of the GDPR. These guidelines aim in particular to help Member States, supervisory authorities and
national accreditation bodies to establish consistent and harmonized reference standards for
the accreditation of certification bodies that can issue certifications in accordance with the GDPR. These
guidelines have been supplemented by an annex, which provides guidance on the requirements that
supervisory authorities must impose for the accreditation of certification bodies. This appendix also has
is subject to public consultation.

 

C) WORKING DOCUMENTS AND LETTERS

During 5 plenary meetings in 2018, the EDPB adopted numerous working documents, guidelines and letters.
These documents are summarized below and can be downloaded in their full version from the Internet4.

PSD2 Directive
The EDPB adopted, on behalf of its President, a letter addressed to Sophie in’t Veld, MEP, concerning
the revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2 Directive). In its response to Sophie in’t Veld, the EDPB
shed additional light on “silent party data” from third-party vendors,
procedures for granting and withdrawing consent, regulatory technical standards, cooperation

4 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents_en

66

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 between the banks and the European Commission, the EDPB and the “Article 29” working group and what remains to be done
to address persistent data protection gaps.

Privacy Shield
Judith Garber, the American ambassador and ombudsman responsible for handling complaints related to the
national security under the Privacy Shield, was invited to the plenary meeting of the EDPB
for an exchange of views with the members of the said Committee. The Committee was particularly interested
by the concerns brought to the attention of the United States by its predecessor, the task force
“Article 29”, concerning in particular the appointment of a permanent mediator, official appointments
the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board,
PCLOB) and the lack of additional information regarding the ombudsman mechanism and declassification
additional procedural rules, in particular on how the mediator interacts with the services
of intelligence.

The EDPB underlined that the meeting with the mediator had been interesting and collegial, but had not
provided no conclusive response to said concerns and that these issues would remain at the forefront of its
priorities at the second annual review (scheduled for October 2018). In addition, he asked the authorities
Americans to provide him with additional evidence to allay these concerns. Finally, the Committee
notes that the Court of Justice of the European Union will express the same concerns in cases already in
course and for which he will offer to express his point of view, if invited to do so by the said Court.

EU-Japan adequacy decision
The EDPB adopted an opinion on the draft EU-Japan adequacy decision, which the European Commission
submitted to the committee in September 2018. The EDPB made its assessment based on the documents submitted
available from the European Commission. The main objective of the EDPB was to determine whether the Commission
has ensured the existence of sufficient safeguards to provide an adequate level of protection for the data of the
natural persons within the Japanese framework. It is important to know that the EDPB does not expect the legal framework
Japanese that it reproduces European data protection legislation. The EDPB welcomes the
efforts made by the European Commission and the Japanese Data Protection Authority
to increase convergence between the Japanese and European legal frameworks. The improvements made by
complementary rules with the aim of reducing certain differences between the two legal frameworks are
very important, and are welcomed. However, after careful analysis of the project
adequacy decision of the Commission and the Japanese data protection framework, the EDPB notes that
some concerns remain, particularly with regard to protection for their entire lifespan
personal data transferred from the European Union to Japan. The EDPB recommends
the European Commission to respond to its requests for clarification, to provide more information and
explanations of the issues raised, and to closely monitor the effective application.

67

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The EDPB considers the EU-Japan adequacy decision to be of utmost importance. This decision will constitute
a precedent since it is the first adequacy decision since the entry into force of the General Regulations
on data protection (GDPR).

DPIA Lists
The EDPB adopted 26 opinions establishing common criteria for impact assessment lists
relating to data protection (DPIA).

These lists are an important tool for the uniform application of the GDPR across the EU. The DPIA is a
process for identifying and mitigating data protection risks that could affect
human rights and freedoms. In order to clarify what type of processing requires a DPIA, the GDPR invites authorities
supervisory authorities to create and publish lists of types of transactions likely to create high risk.

These lists will help to establish common criteria within the EEA for impact assessments relating to the
Data protection.

Electronic evidence
The EDPB adopted an opinion on the new regulation on electronic evidence, proposed by the Commission
European Union in April 2018. The committee pointed out that the proposed new rules for the collection of evidence
electronic devices should sufficiently safeguard the data protection rights of individuals and
be more consistent with EU data protection law.

 

3.2 THE “BERLIN GROUP”

The International Telecommunications Data Protection Working Party, better known as
the name of "Berlin Group", focuses mainly on the issue of the protection of privacy in the
telecommunications and Internet services.

At a 2018 meeting in Budapest, the group adopted working documents on:

• connected vehicles;
• the data protection standards concerning cross-border access requests for the purposes

criminal.

These documents can be downloaded in full (in English and German) from the website of the
working group5.

5 https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/working-paper.html

68

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2018
 

3.3 SPRING CONFERENCE OF EUROPEAN AUTHORITIES
 

TO DATA PROTECTION

The Data Protection Authority of Albania organized the “Spring conference” in Tirana on May 3-4, 2018.

The following topics were discussed in particular during the conference entitled “Data Protection: Better Together”:

• cooperation in the field of surveillance;
• the territorial scope of the GDPR;
• the modernization of Convention 108;
• data protection in the field of police and justice;
• data protection in the field of humanitarian action;
• Cambridge Analytica and Facebook.

 
 

3.4 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF COMMISSIONERS
 

DATA PROTECTION

The CNPD participated in the 40th International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners
private organized in Brussels from 22 to 26 October.

The international conference was held for the first time in 1979. It consists of a session open to all
experts in the field of data protection, a closed session reserved for data protection authorities
data, as well as several side events organized by international organizations and
NGO.

The conference gave the curators the opportunity to reflect together on the digital revolution and its
impact on our societies, as well as how a new digital ethic could help ensure
respect and dignity in our technology-dominated world.

A declaration on data protection and ethics in the field of artificial intelligence was adopted.

Resolutions relating to the following topics were adopted:

• e-learning platforms;
• modification of the rules and procedures concerning the international conference;

69

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD • roadmap for the future of the international conference;
• collaboration between data protection authorities and consumer protection authorities;
• the census concerning international conferences.

 

3.5 THE EUROPEAN SEMINAR “CASE HANDLING WORKSHOP”

The Hungarian data protection authority organized the European seminar “Case Handling Workshop” in
Budapest from 27 to 29 November 2018.

This “workshop” allowed employees of European data protection authorities to exchange their
practical experience in dealing with complaints and to promote cooperation between the different
authorities.

The following topics were addressed during 6 sessions:

• video surveillance: current legal situation and case law;
• processing of data from public registers or the online environment;
• data transfers to third countries;
• cooperation between data protection authorities in the European Union and outside the European Union;
• conditions for exercising the right of access;
• assisting SMEs in complying with data protection legislation.

 
 

3.6 SIGNATURE OF THE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT PROTOCOL 108
 

OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE

On 10 October 2018, Luxembourg signed the protocol amending the Convention of the Council of
Europe for the protection of individuals with regard to the automatic processing of personal data
(ETS No. 108).

Opened for signature on 28 January 1981, the Council of Europe's "Convention 108" was the first instrument
binding international law in this area and has largely inspired the legislation adopted by the European Union
European.

After more than five years of negotiations, this flagship instrument of the Council of Europe has been modernised.

70

3ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2018 71

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD 1 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Expenses
The year 2018 was marked by the entry into force on May 25, 2018 of the new European regulation for the
data protection (GDPR), which will mark for the future the way of functioning of the National Commission
for data protection (CNPD).

The preparation of the actors concerned and involved for the arrival of the GDPR has been the major concern of all the
CNPD staff members in 2018.

If the entry into application of the GDPR has also constituted as much work for the CNPD on the administrative side as
for any other entity processing personal data for its own compliance, the law of 1 August
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection has given a new legal basis to the CNPD, allowing it to carry out all the
tasks and missions that the GDPR foresees for it.

Admittedly, the CNPD as organized by the new law of August 1, 2018 continued the legal personality, including
including staff and legal commitments of the National Commission for Data Protection
as created by the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data now repealed. But there were still adjustments to be made and
new structures to be put in place, such as a College with four commissioners and an auditor
of approved companies. The 2018 accounts are therefore the first to be audited by a company auditor
approved.

If the CNPD budget for 2017 was a budget announcing the change, the budget for the year 2018 was a
transformation budget towards a CNPD capable of assuming the tasks and missions granted to it by the GDPR. In
Indeed, the 2018 budget presented an 85% increase compared to the previous year, with a passage
from €2,386,726 to €4,415,419 of authorized endowment.

As in the previous year, the additional funds were mainly intended for recruitment
additional staff and to cover the operating costs of an expanding commission.

The total operating costs of the public establishment during the 2018 financial year amounted to
€3,604,308.93, which represents an increase of 42.37% compared to the previous financial year which amounted to
€2,531,584.32.

72

4ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDRESSOURCES,STRUCTURES ANDOPERATION Total operating costs remain below the amount of the original budget forecasts
estimated at €4,435,519.

The difference of €831,214.07 is mainly explained by two positions, namely expenses for charges
relating to personnel, on the other hand, by the costs for the management and maintenance of systems and networks.

Indeed, as regards the costs relating to permanent and temporary staff, these have certainly increased
significantly, reaching €3,106,940.50 in 2018 compared to €2,257,695.91 in 2017.
actual costs still remain 17.43% below the budget estimates estimated at €3,648,592. This result
is due to the fact that all the necessary recruitments were not carried out at the beginning of the year, while the CNPD
wanted to wait to see what the real evolution of the expected workload was. While at the start of
the year, the workload to come was difficult to assess, it crystallized all the more strongly
around the entry into force of the GDPR on May 25, 2018 and more particularly the launch of the
European cooperation system. It was only then that the CNPD had a clear view
on the profiles needed to strengthen its staff. Added to this was the late adoption of the new law
organization of the CNPD, which provided, among other things, for a 4th commissioner, whose recruitment did not take place
in 2018. And it was only with the adoption of the law transposing Directive (EU) 2016/68 that the CNPD
was able to more concretely assess its staffing needs in the context of criminal supervision as well as
than in terms of national security. Once the exact profiles were defined, the search for suitable candidates began.
also proved difficult.

The CNPD nevertheless hired a full-time, indefinite-term employee from career B1, an employee of
the A2 quarry and 10 employees of the A1 quarry. In the same period, 2 B1 employees hired on a fixed-term basis
terminated their functions and the status of four A1 career employees were converted to that of civil servant
following the success of the examination-competition by the candidates in question.

It should be noted that a civil servant in career B1 continues to benefit from leave for half-time work for
medical reasons and another has been absent for 10 months. While the CNPD cannot take advantage of the provision
the State for replacements, it assumes the costs for these absences itself.

With regard to expenses for the management and maintenance of systems and networks, the CNPD felt that its
roles and responsibilities would change significantly with the arrival of the GDPR. In order to fulfill its responsibilities
in an efficient manner, the implementation of extensive and systematic computerization of work procedures
existing and future has become necessary. To overcome challenges and ensure efficient high quality service,
the CNPD had opted for extensive digitization. In this perspective, the CNPD had reoriented the model

73

2018 CNPDANNUALREPORT2018 CNPD operational of its IT department so that it uses the technological developments of recent years
as a lever to ensure a sustainable increase in the efficiency, quality and transparency of
his activity. Thus, since 2018 the CNPD has been using a Platform As A Service (Cloud) type service, of which
the service provider is the CTIE. According to the market price, the service offered would be equivalent to €308,240.07. In 2018, the
however, the invoice only amounted to €55,803.15. This difference is explained by the fact that the CNPD was able to develop
its new “SharePoint” work platform using exclusively standard CTIE components.
As a result, the CNPD system can be operated on a standard and shared CTIE platform – reducing
the costs heavily. An amount of €66,988.35 was also disbursed for hosting the “CNPD
Compliance Support Tool”, developed by the CNPD together with LIST (Luxembourg Institute of Science and
Technology) by a specialized company.

Regarding fees, an amount of €46,000 had been provided to cover the costs of the fiduciary,
costs for replacement personnel and a provision for legal fees. Trustee fees,
which keeps the accounts and draws up the balance sheet of the public establishment, remained slightly below the
forecast with €17,048.52 compared to the forecast €19,000. There were no expenses, neither for personnel
replacement, nor as attorneys' fees. On the other hand, in the context of the development of its procedures
audit – one of the new key missions, the CNPD called on a specialized consulting firm.
The costs incurred for this service amounted to €56,890.08. The total of this position therefore amounted to
€73,938.60 and therefore exceeded forecasts by 60.73%.

The amount of rental charges for the administrative building in Belval amounted to €14,981.37, amount
slightly higher than the amount of the previous year which amounted to €12,262.33, but below the
forecasts on this position, which had been estimated at €30,000, while it covers the cleaning costs for
the annex leased from the Belval Fund. However, due to a late move, the costs were lower than
planned.

Shipping and telecommunications costs have fallen, while since May 25, 2018, the CNPD
no longer issues authorizations and no longer acknowledges notifications and therefore sends much less
letters, resulting in lower postage costs. Other general operating expenses
experienced a linear progression following the increase in the number of active employees.

With regard to office equipment and supplies, expenditure increased significantly, while
the CNPD had to equip the new employees, even the offices located in the annex rented from the Belval Fund.
The related costs are shown in the amortization table.

Travel and accommodation expenses abroad amounted to €48,826.77, which is explained by the
high number of meetings in which CNPD staff members had to attend prior to the

74

4ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDRESOURCES,STRUCTURES ANDOPERATION the entry into application of the GDPR. In the future, this amount is not intended to decrease. On the contrary, while a
of the cornerstones of the GDPR is European cooperation which requires a permanent and dense exchange
between European supervisory authorities. The CNPD's commitments abroad will only increase
in the future, while not only the number of working groups that the CNPD must cover abroad has
tendency to increase. The cadence of the meetings of the new European Data Protection Board
also shows a substantial progression compared to the meetings of its predecessor, the Working Group
of Article 29. The sharp increase in this position compared to the figures for the previous year where the amount
amounted to €29,255.66, a sharp drop again compared to 2016 when this same expense amounted to
€39,529.20, apart from preparatory meetings for the entry into force of the GDPR, is also explained by a
unfavorable change in train schedules, which no longer allows CNPD staff members
to be on time for meetings in Brussels unless you get up very early on the same day. It follows that the
employees travel to Brussels the day before the meetings, which generates additional costs for
accommodation.

External training costs excluding travel and subsistence costs for staff increased sharply
to reach €26,209.30 in 2018, compared to €9,282.43 in 2017, see €3,440.80 in 2016, which exceeds
of 37.79% the budget forecast on this position. These expenses are explained on the one hand by courses of
Luxembourgish language organized for new French-speaking employees internally, and on the other hand by the
specialized training in personal data protection. It is currently very difficult
to find collaborators who master both the three official languages of the country and the subject of protection
personal data. In order to be able to associate new staff and move forward with preparations for
When the GDPR came into force, it was necessary to decide on one part of the skills and teach the other. THE
training costs will evolve more over the coming years, given that the CNPD brings a lot
attention to the basic, continuous and linguistic training of its employees.

Expenditure for public information and communication amounted to €102,699.41 in 2018, compared to
to €23,846.85 in 2017. Although this amount exceeded the budget forecast by more than €37,000
65,000 €, this expense is highly justified while the entry into application of the GDPR constituted a
event which required a maximum of information and awareness of all the actors involved. The CNPD
continued to produce and print new awareness brochures and organized a number of
awareness-raising events open to the public.

Depreciation recorded in 2018 reached a total amount of €16,111.56, i.e. a
sum significantly higher than the amount of the previous year which was €6,888.22. This augmentation
is mainly due on the one hand to the development of computer software for a total amount of
€12,583.35 and on the other hand, for the acquisition of new furniture intended to accommodate new members of the
CNPD staff in 2018 for a total amount of €42,743.61.

75

2018 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPD Revenue
Until May 25, 2018, the CNPD issued authorizations and received notifications in accordance with the
provisions of the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature. The amount of royalties collected pursuant to Articles 37 paragraph (4), 13
paragraph (3) and 14 paragraph (4) of this law amounted to €48,495.00 compared to €178,318.51 in 2017.
Although the amount is lower than the previous year, it is still higher than forecast
budgets which only foresee a revenue of €20,100.00. In anticipation of the entry into force of the GDPR, the
CNPD was faced with an influx of prior formalities and therefore a corresponding increase
receipts, which however have since disappeared. No income from financial products (interest income) has
could be registered for the year 2018.

Operating result
Given the annual allocation of €4,415,419, which the National Commission received in 2018 from
of the State pursuant to Article 37 paragraph (4) of the aforementioned law of August 2, 2002, the operating result
of the public establishment amounted to €859,605.07 as of December 31, 2018.

76

42018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION Alexandre KUHN, State employee
Vincent LEGELEUX, in charge of studies
Laurent MAGNUS, State employee
Edith MALHIERE, State employee
Francis MAQUIL, attached
Marc MOSTERT, editor
Bertrand NAVARRE, State employee
Claudia PFISTER, state employee
Nicolas RASE, State employee
Mathieu RINCK, State employee
Carmen Schanck, attached
Romy SCHAUS, attached
Céline SIMON-HERTZ, State employee
Michel SINNER, advisor
Mathilde STENERSEN, attached
Sébastien TEISSEIRE, State employee
Georges WEILAND, Advisor
Christian WELTER, Advisor

2 PERSONNEL AND SERVICES

College
Tine A. LARSEN, President
Thierry LALLEMANG, curator
Christophe BUSCHMANN, curator

Alternate members
Josiane PAULY, Ministry of Sustainable Development
and Infrastructure (Department of Transport),
traffic and road safety department

Marc HEMMERLING, Association of Banks and
Banquiers Luxembourg (ABBL), member of the
direction

François THILL, Ministry of the Economy, management
e-commerce and security
information

Secretariat, general administration, resources
human, budget, finance, IT and logistics
Irena ADROVIC, attached
Jan KUFFER, state employee
Anna MAGI, state employee
Stéphanie MATHIEU, editor
Tessy PATER, editor
Maryse WINANDY, State employee

Communication and documentation department
Tom KAYSER, attached

Operational service
Clémentine BOULANGER, State employee
Marie-Laure FABBRI, State employee
Arnaud HABRAN, State employee
Alain HERRMANN, research officer
Danielle JEITZ, attached

77

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 3 ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE CNPD

 

3.1 ORGANIZATION CHART FROM 01.01.2018 TO 24.05.2018

Secretariat

College

Administration

general, personal,
budget and finance

Communication and documentation

Legal Department

IT and logistics service

Notifications and prior authorizations,
data protection officers

Guidance and investigations

(ad hoc composition
lawyer + computer scientist)

78

4CNPD2018 ANNUAL REPORTRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION

3.2 ORGANIZATION CHART FROM 25.05.2018 TO 31.12.2018

College

Compliance

Advice

Administration

On-site investigation

guidance

Secretariat/Reception

Audit

Complaints

Service Desk

Notification of vulnerabilities

Third country transfers

Human ressources

finance

Computer science
and logistics

Communication
and sensitization

certification and
codes of conduct

Information request

and legal notices

European cooperation

Prior consultation

79

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 5 APPENDICES
 

OPINIONS AND DECISIONS
• Second additional opinion on bill no. 7024 implementing the regulation
(EU) 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 relating to commissions
of interchange for payment transactions linked to a card, and amending: 1. of
the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector; 2. of the amended law of 23 December
1998 establishing a financial sector monitoring commission; 3. of the amended law
of August 5, 2005 on financial guarantee contracts; 4. of the amended law of January 11, 2008
relating to the transparency obligations of issuers; 5. of the amended law of 10 November 2009
relating to payment services; 6. of the amended law of 17 December 2010 concerning
undertakings for collective investment; 7. of the amended law of 12 July 2013 relating to managers
alternative investment funds; 8. of the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the sector of
insurance; 9. of the amended law of 18 December 2015 relating to the failure of institutions
credit and certain investment companies; and 10. of the law of 23 December 2016 relating
market abuse

  (Deliberation No. 1/2018 of January 9, 2018)

86

• Opinion on bill no. 7128 on 1. transposition of provisions relating to obligations
professionals and the powers of the supervisory authorities in the fight against money laundering
and against the financing of terrorism of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and
of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of
money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012
of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament
and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC; 2. Implementation of Regulation (EU)
2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the information accompanying
transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006; 3. modification of: a) the law
of November 12, 2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and the financing of
terrorism; b) the amended law of 10 November 2009 relating to payment services; c) the law
amended on December 9, 1976 relating to the organization of the notariat; d) the amended law of 4 December
1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers; e) the amended law of 10 August 1991

80

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES on the legal profession; f) the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector; g) the law
amended on June 10, 1999 on the organization of the profession of chartered accountant; h) the law of 21
December 2012 relating to Family Office activity; i) the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the
insurance sector; j) the law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession

  (Deliberation n° 51/2018 of January 18, 2018)

• Additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the project

Law No. 7113 on Social Inclusion Income

  (Deliberation n° 59/2018 of January 23, 2018)
 
• Opinion on the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the organization and methods of

work of the national organ donation coordination service

  (Deliberation No. 79/2018 of January 31, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on radiation protection
    (Deliberation No. 138/2018 of February 23, 2018)

 

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the compensation payable to the President,
to the members and alternate members of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 July 2003

 

    (Deliberation No. 139/2018 of March 1, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation establishing the headquarters of the National Commission
for data protection and repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 July 2003 on
transfer of the headquarters of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

    (Deliberation No. 140/2018 of March 1, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft law on macroprudential measures relating to credits
residential real estate and amending the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the sector
finance, and the law of 1 April 2015 establishing a systemic risk committee and modifying the

89

104

108

114

117

119

81

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and the Central Bank of Luxembourg

 

    (Deliberation No. 220/2018 of March 29, 2018)

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft Grand-Law Regulation

ducal specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the shared care file

    (Deliberation No. 242/2018 of April 5, 2018)

• Additional opinion relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted pursuant to the law of 5 July

2016 reorganizing the State Intelligence Service

    (Deliberation No. 244/2018 of April 12, 2018)

 

 

• Additional opinion relating to government amendments to bill no. 7184 on
creation of the National Commission for Data Protection and the implementation of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of these data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting the rules for
salaries and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants and repealing the law
of August 2, 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.
personal character

 

    (Deliberation n° 279 /2018 of April 25, 2018)

121

124

149

158

• Opinion relating to draft law no. 7248 relating to the financing of extension and

improvement of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network for the services of
Luxembourg security and emergency services and amending the law of 20 May 2014 relating to the
financing of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network for security and
Luxembourg relief

 

    (Deliberation No. 283/2018 of April 27, 2018)

165

• Second additional opinion on the parliamentary amendments to bill no. 7184
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and implementation

82

5ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDANNEXES of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection
data), amending the Labor Code and the amended law of March 25, 2015 setting the
system of salaries and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants

 

    (Deliberation No. 423/2018 of June 8, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning: 1. Internet sales to the public
medicines for human use; 2. preparing, dividing, packaging or
repackaging of medicinal products for human use.

 

    (Deliberation No. 440/2018 of July 9, 2018)

• Opinion on draft law no. 6539 on the preservation of businesses and on modernization

bankruptcy law

 

    (Deliberation No. 441/2018 of July 16, 2018)

• Opinion on draft law no. 7287 on the organization of the financial intelligence unit (FIU)
and amending: 1. the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2. the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization
judicial; 3. the amended law of 12 November 2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and
terrorist financing

 

    (Deliberation No. 442/2018 of July 16, 2018)

• Second additional opinion relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted pursuant to the law

of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service

    (Deliberation No. 443/2018 of July 16, 2018)

 

• Opinion on draft law n° 6961 on 1. creation of the National Security Authority and 2.
amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code

 

    (Deliberation No. 444/2018 of July 16, 2018)

83

171

179

183

186

191

193

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD • Opinion on bill no. 7269 supplementing the Labor Code by creating an activity
support for inclusion in employment for disabled employees and employees undergoing redeployment
external

    (Deliberation No. 445/2018 of July 16, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation modifying 1° the Grand-Ducal decree
modified ducal law of November 23, 1955 on traffic regulations on all roads
public, 2° of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 on the technical inspection of
road vehicles and 3° of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and
registration of road vehicles

    (Deliberation No. 449/2018 of July 16, 2018)

 

 

• Opinion on bill no. 7258 amending 1) the amended law of February 25, 1979
concerning housing assistance, 2) the amended law of 21 September 2006 on leases for use
housing and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code, and 3) the amended law of 16 December
2008 concerning the reception and integration of foreigners in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and with regard to
of the Grand-Ducal regulation laying down the implementing measures relating to assistance in financing guarantees
rentals provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979
regarding housing assistance

 

    (Deliberation n° 450/2018 of September 14, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum content of the individual file

of the hospital patient and the discharge clinical summary

    (Deliberation No. 481/2018 of October 19, 2018)

 

198

201

208

212

• Opinion relating to bill no. 7217 establishing a Register of beneficial owners and bearing 1°
transposition of the provisions of Article 30 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and
of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of
money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012
of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament

84

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC, as amended by Directive (EU)
2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018; 2° modification of the amended law
of 19 December 2002 concerning the register of commerce and companies as well as accounting
and the annual accounts of companies and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the
law of 13/01/2019 establishing a register of beneficial owners

 

    (Deliberation No. 486/2018 of November 22, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 1 August 2018 on
mandatory notification of certain diseases and repeal of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 10
September 2004 designating notifiable infectious or communicable diseases
OBLIGATORY

 

    (Deliberation No. 489/2018 of December 7, 2018)

218

229

• Opinion on draft law n° 7126 relating to municipal administrative sanctions
amending 1) the Criminal Code, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the amended municipal law of
December 13, 1988

 

    (Deliberation No. 490/2018 of December 7, 2018)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing the identification of
persons and the categories of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of
patients and providers

    (Deliberation No. 491/2018 of December 21, 2018)

 

240

243

85

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Second additional opinion of the National Data Protection Commission
relating to draft law no. 7024 implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/751 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees
for payment transactions linked to a card, and modifying: 1. the
amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector; 2. of the amended law of 23
December 1998 creating a financial sector monitoring commission;
3. the amended law of 5 August 2005 on financial guarantee contracts; 4. of the law
of January 11, 2008 relating to the transparency obligations of issuers;
5. the amended law of 10 November 2009 relating to payment services; 6. of the
amended law of 17 December 2010 concerning undertakings for collective investment;
7. of the amended law of 12 July 2013 relating to investment fund managers
alternatives; 8. the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector;
9. the amended law of 18 December 2015 relating to the failure of credit institutions
credit and certain investment companies; and 10. of the law of December 23, 2016
on market abuse

Deliberation n° 1/2018 of January 9, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "the law" or "the amended law
of 2 August 2002"), the National Commission for Data Protection has the particular mission of being
"asked for its opinion on all bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as
on all regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis of this law”.

On January 8, 2018, the Finance and Budget Committee proposed amendments to bill n° 7024
implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on
interchange fees for payment transactions linked to a card (hereinafter referred to as “the draft
law "). In view of the changes made by the amendments and in application of Article 32, paragraph (3),
letter (f) of the amended law of August 2, 2002, the National Commission took the decision to refer itself to
notify parliamentary amendments.

The CNPD issued a first opinion on draft law no. 7024 on March 16, 2017 (deliberation no. 243/2017)
and an additional opinion on July 27, 2017 (deliberation no. 654/2017). In these opinions, the CNPD recalled
that professionals in the financial and insurance sectors will have to structure their sub-projects

86

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES in order to comply not only with the legislation specific to their sector, but also with the obligations
currently arising from the amended law of 2 August 2002 and those arising from the future European regulation
on data protection, namely Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “GDPR”),
in particular with regard to the use of the consent of the persons concerned, the information of the persons
concerned and transfers of data to third countries. In addition, the National Commission has drawn the attention
of the authors of the draft law on the provisions of the GDPR, which provide for obligations for those responsible for the
processing and subcontractors with regard to security measures and the supervision of subcontracting in
cascade.

Concerning the amendments under opinion, the CNPD takes note of the new paragraph (9) of article 41 of the law
of April 5, 1993, new paragraph (12) of article 30 of the amended law of November 10, 2009
relating to payment services and new paragraph (11) of article 300 of the amended law of 7 December
2015 on the insurance sector, which specify each time that "this article is without prejudice to the law
of August 2, 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
staff ".

It welcomes the addition of these paragraphs, which clarify the texts in question by setting out explicitly and in
the very body of the texts that current and future data protection regulations apply
to all subcontracting relationships that involve the processing of personal data. Note in
this context that the GDPR, applicable from May 25, 2018, will constitute a higher standard than the draft law
under notice.

The CNPD notes in this regard that under Article 60 of Bill No. 7184 establishing the Commission
national authority for data protection and the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 27 April 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
free movement of this data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting the rules for processing and
the terms and conditions for the advancement of civil servants and repealing the amended law of August 2, 2002
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, the reference to the
law of August 2, 2002 will be replaced by a reference to the GDPR.

Both Directive 95/46/EC of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which has been transposed into law
Luxembourg by the modified law of August 2, 2002, that the new European regulation aims to facilitate the free
circulation of data within the Union by harmonizing the European rules relating to the protection of
data1. Transfers of personal data to other Member States of the European Union in

1 See Article 1 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

87

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT the framework of subcontracting will therefore be governed by a uniform legal framework guaranteeing the protection
personal data. With regard to the use of a service provider located in a country
third parties, the CNPD recalls that transfers of personal data to third countries must be carried out
in compliance with the conditions set out in the amended law of 2 August 2002 and in the GDPR, which will be added
to the obligations provided for by the provisions of this bill.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on January 9, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

88

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on Bill no.
7128 on 1. transposition of the provisions relating to professional obligations
and the powers of the supervisory authorities in the fight against money laundering and
terrorist financing of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 20 May 2015 relating to the prevention of the use of the financial system for
purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/
EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC;
2. Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 20 May 2015 on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing
Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006; 3. modification of: a) the amended law of 12 November
2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism;
b) the amended law of 10 November 2009 relating to payment services; c) the law
amended on December 9, 1976 relating to the organization of the notariat; d) the amended law of
4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers; e) the law
amended of August 10, 1991 on the profession of lawyer; f) the amended law of 5 April 1993
relating to the financial sector; g) the amended law of 10 June 1999 on the organization of
the profession of chartered accountant; h) the law of 21 December 2012 relating to the activity of
Family Office; i) the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector; j) the
law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession

Deliberation n° 51/2018 of January 18, 2018

In accordance with article 32, paragraph (3), letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of 2
August 2002" or "the 2002 Act"), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as
“the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on
all bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all measures
regulations or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated 8 May 2017, the Minister of Finance invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft law transposing the provisions relating to professional obligations and
powers of supervisory authorities in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing

89

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, modifying
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of
European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (hereinafter “the draft law”)2.

The purpose of the bill is to amend current Luxembourg legislation, in particular the amended law
of 12 November 2004 on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism (hereinafter
referred to as “the amended law of November 12, 2004” or “the 2004 law”), in order to bring it into line with the new
European rules, and more specifically Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of
financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing (hereinafter referred to as “the
Directive 2015/849”). Certain aspects of this Directive and the draft law involve the collection, analysis,
storage and sharing of personal data of a multitude of people concerned both by the
professionals falling within the scope of the amended law of 12 November 2004 (hereinafter referred to as
“professionals”), and by the authorities responsible for supervising professionals3. The authors of the project
of law must therefore ensure compliance with data protection regulations when
transposition of Directive 2015/849.

The CNPD notes that Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “the GDPR”) will be applicable to
from May 25, 2018.

European legislators have adopted, in parallel with the GDPR, Directive (EU) 2016/680 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities
authorities for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
matter or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the decision-
Council Framework 2008/977/JHA (hereinafter referred to as “the Police and Justice Directive”). The Police and Justice Directive
must be transposed into domestic law by 6 May 2018 at the latest and “establishes rules relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities
for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, or
enforcement of criminal penalties, including protection against threats to public security and
prevention of such threats”.

It is therefore necessary to analyze the bill in the light of the amended law of 2 August 2002 which is the legislation
currently in force, on the one hand, and new European legislation on the other. In general, seen
matter in question, the CNPD recommends taking into account the changes brought about by the two measures

2 This bill also seeks to:

- implement Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on information accompanying transfers of funds and

repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006; And

- amend: a) the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of the notariat; b) the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of
County court bailiff ; c) the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; d) the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector; e) the amended law
of June 10, 1999 on the organization of the profession of chartered accountant; f) the amended law of 12 November 2004 on the fight against money laundering and
the financing of terrorism; g) the amended law of 10 November 2009 relating to payment services; h) the law of 21 December 2012 relating to the activity of
Family Office; i) the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector; j) the law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession.

3 Directive 2015/849, recital 43.
4 Police and Justice Directive, Article 1, paragraph (1).

90

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES aforementioned legislative, as far as possible, in particular as some of the processing implemented
based on the bill would fall within the scope of the law transposing Directive 2016/680,
respectively Bill No. 71685.

Taking into account the scope of the bill, the National Commission intends to limit its observations to
questions raised by the provisions of the bill under consideration, which justify an analysis because of the risks
for the persons concerned or because of the changes made by the GDPR and the Police and Justice Directive.

I. Regarding the scope of the amended law of August 2, 2002, the GDPR and the Police and Justice Directive

The National Commission notes the literal transposition of Article 41 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 by Article 6,
point 10 of the bill. This article, which introduces article 3, paragraph (6bis) to the amended law of 12 November
2004, states that “The processing of personal data under this law is subject to the law
of August 2, 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel, hereinafter referred to as the “amended law of 2 August 2002””. As is already the case, the law of
2002 would apply to processing carried out by professionals, authorities and the Intelligence Unit
Financier (hereinafter “the FIU”).

As mentioned above, the 2002 law will be replaced by the GDPR from May 25, 2018.
carried out by the FIU as part of its anti-money laundering duties will not, however, fall
not in the scope of the GDPR, but in that of the Police and Justice Directive. Indeed, in application
of article 2, paragraph (1) of bill n° 7168, “this law applies to the processing of personal data
personal character carried out by the competent authorities for the purposes set out in Article 1. It also applies
processing that is carried out in execution: … (c) of the missions of the Financial Intelligence Unit”.

The CNPD again draws the attention of the authors of the bill to recital (11) of the Police Directive and
Justice, which deals with the potential overlap of the two fields of application of the said Directive and the GDPR, in
noting that: “Therefore, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 applies where a body or entity collects
personal data for other purposes and further processes it to comply with a legal obligation
to which it is subject. For example, financial institutions retain, for detection or
prosecution or investigation of criminal offences, certain personal data they process
and that they transmit to the competent national authorities only in specific cases and in accordance with the
law of the Member States. A body or entity that processes personal data on behalf of
of these authorities within the scope of this Directive should be bound by a contract or
another legal act and by the provisions applicable to processors under this Directive, the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 continuing to apply to the processing of personal data by the subcontractor
dealing outside the scope of this Directive".

5 Bill no. 7168 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

of national security.

91

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD II. As to the purpose of the processing

Both the amended law of 2 August 2002 and the GDPR enshrine the principle of purpose limitation, according to which the
personal data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not
may not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes6.

Article 41, paragraph (2) of Directive 2015/849 explicitly defines the purpose of the processing carried out
on the basis of the draft law by specifying that "personal data are only processed on the basis of
this Directive by obliged entities only for the purposes of preventing money laundering and
financing of terrorism, within the meaning of Article 1, and are not further processed in a manner
incompatible with those purposes. The processing of personal data on the basis of this
directive for any other purpose, for example for commercial purposes, is prohibited. » The bill, by transposing
this provision, omits the reference to the prohibition to process data for “commercial purposes”. Indeed, according to
Article 6, point 10, paragraph 2 of the draft law, “Personal data are only processed on the basis of
this law by professionals only for the purposes of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing
and are not further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes. The treatment of
personal data on the basis of this Act for any other purpose is prohibited”.

As the collection of data processed for the purposes of the fight against money laundering and terrorism is carried out in
parallel with the collection of data processed for commercial purposes, it is essential to delimit precisely
the purpose of the processing of the data collected within the framework of this bill. Therefore, and with a concern
correct transposition of Directive 2015/849 into national law, the CNPD considers it necessary to resume
literally the wording of Directive 2015/849, in order to explicitly indicate that the processing of data to
commercial purposes is not compatible with the purposes of the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism.

III. As for the data processed

Chapter 2 of the amended law of 12 November 2004 addresses the question of the obligations of professionals.
More specifically, pursuant to Articles 3 to 3-2 of the said law, as amended by the bill, the
professionals must subject all their clients to rigorous monitoring in order to meet their obligations of
vigilance. Professionals can determine the extent of the measures applied according to their assessment
risk7. However, the draft law does not specify the customer's personal data which should or
may be collected in order to fulfill the obligations imposed by the provisions in question.

For example, in connection with the identification of the beneficiary of trusts, trusts or legal arrangements
similar, article 6, point 5 of the bill, which inserts a paragraph (2quater) in article 2 of the law of 2004,

6 Amended law of 2 August 2002, article 4, paragraph (1), letter (a) and GDPR, article 5, paragraph (1), letter (b).

92

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES imposes on professionals the obligation to collect “sufficient information on the beneficiary to give themselves
the assurance of being able to identify the beneficiary when the benefits are paid or at the
when the beneficiary exercises his acquired rights”.

Inaccuracies as to the data that should be processed by professionals could result in
undifferentiated collection of irrelevant customer data by professionals8. However, as raised
by the Council of State on the occasion of bill no. 5165, which introduced the amended law of November 12, 2004,
“The fight against money laundering and terrorism must not lead to „gläserner Mensch”. Without going here in the
debate, long led by other opinions, about the collision between the project under opinion and the law of August 2, 2002
relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, the Council of State
maintains that the justified prosecution of a tiny percentage of criminals should not cause disproportionate harm to
private life, constitutionally protected”9.

In this regard, the CNPD recalls Article 4, paragraph (1), letter (b) of the 2002 law and Article 5, paragraph
(1), letter (c) of the GDPR, according to which only data that is relevant and necessary for the purposes
pursued by the controller must be collected.

The CNPD also recalls that the processing of special categories of data10 as well as the processing
data relating to criminal convictions, offenses or security measures could
generate significant risks for the data subjects and are therefore subject to legal frameworks
more binding11. For example, article 8 of the amended law of August 2, 2002 and article 10 of the GDPR
prohibit the processing of data relating to criminal convictions, offences, and measures of
security, except if the processing is carried out under the control of the public authority or if a legal provision provides
such treatment.

While the draft law does not explicitly provide that professionals should process such data,
it cannot be excluded that they will be required to process them when fulfilling their obligations of
vigilance.

Given the foregoing, in order to prevent indiscriminate collection of data by professionals and with a view to
of legal certainty, the CNPD recommends, like the recommendation of the EDPS issued in its opinion on the
Draft Directive No. 2015/849, to amend the draft law in order to indicate in a single legal or regulatory text
the categories of data, including, where applicable, special categories of data or data
relating to criminal convictions, offenses or security measures, which must be taken into account
for the application of customer due diligence obligations12. The supervisory authorities could,
if necessary, adopt or amend regulations listing the data at a later stage, in order to take into account
specific needs of different categories of professionals.

7 Bill no. 7128, article 6, point 3.
8 Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor of 4 July 2013, op.cit., point 73.
9 Opinion of the Council of State on bill no. 5165 on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism transposing the directive
2001/97/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 December 2001 amending Council Directive 91/308/EEC on the prevention of the use of
financial system for the purposes of money laundering, doc. speak. 5165/5, p. 5.

10 Amended law of 2 August 2002, article 6 and GDPR, article 9.
11 GDPR, recital 51.
12 Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor of 4 July 2013, op.cit., points 75 and 79.

93

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD IV. Regarding politically exposed persons

Pursuant to Article 3-2, paragraph (4) of the 2004 law, in the event that a customer is to be considered
as a Politically Exposed Person (hereinafter “the PEP”), professionals would be required
to apply enhanced due diligence measures. Pursuant to Article 1, paragraph (9) of the law
of November 12, 2004, as it results from the bill, are considered to be persons
politically exposed, “natural persons who occupy or have been entrusted with a public function
important person, as well as their family members or persons known to be close to them.
associates”.

It follows from Article 3, paragraph (10) of Directive 2015/849 that "the members of the family" of the person
who occupies or has been entrusted with an important public function are: his spouse, or a person
considered as the equivalent of a spouse, his children and their spouses or persons considered as
the equivalent of a spouse, and his parents. By transposing this provision, the authors of the bill have added
“brothers and sisters” to the definition of “family members” in paragraph (11) of Article 1 of the
Act 2004, as amended by the Bill, to bring “the definition of ‘family members’ into line with that
provided for in the guidelines issued by the FATF”13.

Pursuant to this modification by the authors of the bill, professionals should thus apply a
careful control of the personal data relating to the siblings of the natural person who
holds or has been entrusted with an important public function. However, this amendment extends the scope
beyond what was deemed necessary when drafting Directive 2015/849. In order to limit the circle
persons automatically subject to enhanced due diligence measures, the CNPD recommends that the
authors of the bill take up the exact definition of “members of the family”, as it appears in the
Directive 2015/849.

V. Regarding the processing of data relating to employees

It follows from Article 4, paragraph (1), letter (a) of the law of 2004, as it results from the bill, that the
professionals must implement internal policies, controls and procedures relating to “the selection of the
staff ".

Like the Chamber of Commerce14, the CNPD questions the extent of this obligation. Is it a
monitoring at the start of the employment relationship or continuous monitoring? While "staff selection" seems
refer to the start of the employment relationship, the English version of Directive 2015/849 speaks of “employee
screening”, which seems to indicate that it is a continuous control. However, neither the articles nor the commentary on the articles
indicate the periodicity of the control of the employees.

13 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 43.
14 Opinion of the Chamber of Commerce relating to bill no. 7128, doc. speak. No. 7128/01, page 22.

94

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES In any event, the CNPD points out that Article 4, paragraph (4) of the GDPR defines profiling as “any
form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of such personal data
personnel to assess certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular to analyze
or predict things about job performance, economic status, health, preferences
personal information, interests, reliability, behavior, whereabouts or movements of that person
physical ". Insofar as the control of the selection of personnel could constitute an assessment of the
reliability or the behavior of the employee, whether at the beginning or during the employment relationship, a control of the
selection of personnel could constitute profiling within the meaning of the GDPR.

The CNPD also recalls that only relevant and necessary data with regard to the purposes pursued by
controller must be collected15. However, the provision in its current version does not specify
which data, if any, should be processed in the context of personnel selection.

Given that the monitoring of employees could be qualified as "profiling" within the meaning of Article 4, paragraph
(4) of the GDPR and in order to limit interference in the privacy of employees by professionals, the CNPD considers
necessary to specify in the draft law the scope of this control, including an indication of the data that
should be dealt with. It also recalls in this respect the recommendations recently issued by the
work "Article 29" relating to the processing of data in the workplace and in particular the sections relating
the “screening” of candidates and employees16.

VI. Regarding information and access to personal data

To. information
Pursuant to the new paragraph 3 of article 3, paragraph (2bis) of the amended law of 12 November 2004, which transposes
Article 41, paragraph (3) of Directive 2015/849, “professionals communicate to new clients
the information required under article 26, paragraph (1), of the amended law of 2 August 2002 before
establish a business relationship or execute a transaction on an occasional basis. This information contains
in particular a general warning concerning the legal obligations of professionals under this law
with regard to the processing of personal data for the purposes of the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism”.

The CNPD recalls that Article 13 of the GDPR, which will replace Article 26, paragraph (1) of the amended law of 2 August
2002, extends the list of mandatory information that the controller must provide to data subjects
concerned.

b. The right of access
According to article 28 of the amended law of August 2, 2002, data subjects have a right of access

15 Amended Law of 2 August 2002, article 4, paragraph (1), letter (b) and GDPR, article 5, paragraph (1), letter (c).
16 Opinion 02/2017 of the “Article 29” Working Party of 8 June 2017 on data processing in the workplace (WP 249).

95

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT to the data concerning them, in order to ensure in particular their accuracy and the lawfulness of their processing17.
Exceptions to the right of access are notably provided for in article 29 of the law of 2002, under which the
controllers are authorized to limit or defer the right of access in certain cases, for example,
if the processing is necessary to safeguard "the prevention, research, observation or prosecution
criminal offences, including those relating to the fight against money laundering, …”18.

The GDPR regulates the right of access in Article 15 and provides, in its Article 23, that Union law or the
law of a Member State may limit this right in certain cases, such as, for example, for "other purposes
of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular an economic or financial interest
important to the Union or a Member State, including in the monetary, budgetary and fiscal fields, health
public service and social security”. The legislative measure providing for the limitation must be accompanied by the provisions
which circumscribe the limitation of the right, such as, for example, provisions relating to the scope of
limitations introduced20 and safeguards to prevent misuse or unlawful access or transfer21.

According to recital 46 of Directive 2015/849, "access by the data subject to information relating to a
suspicious transaction reporting would seriously undermine the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering
and the financing of terrorism”. Therefore, in order not to compromise the effectiveness of the measures provided for by the
regulations on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, Article 6,
point 10, paragraph 4 of the bill, which transposes article 41, paragraph (4) of Directive 2015/849, states:

“In application of article 29, paragraph (1), letter (d), of the amended law of 2 August 2002, the person responsible for
processing limits or defers the exercise of the data subject's right of access to personal data
concerning it when such a measure is necessary to:

(a) allow the professional, the financial intelligence unit, a supervisory authority or a
self-regulatory body from carrying out its tasks as appropriate for the purposes of this Act or the
measures taken for its execution; Or

(b) avoid obstructing requests for information, analyses, investigations or proceedings of a
official or judicial, carried out for the purposes of this law, the measures taken for its execution or the
Directive (EU) 2015/849 and so as not to compromise the prevention and detection of cases of money laundering
or financing of terrorism or investigations in this regard. ".

The CNPD would like to point out that according to article 29, paragraph (4) of the amended law of 2 August 2002, a person in charge
processing, which limits the right of access, must state the reason for the limitation. Moreover, in such a case, the
data subject has a right of indirect access through the CNPD, which may inform the data subject
concerned of the results of its investigations, without however endangering the purpose(s) of the processing
question22. Recital 46 of Directive 2015/849 refers to this indirect access by indicating that "the person

17 Directive 95/46/EC, recital 41.
18 Amended law of 2 August 2002, article 29, paragraph (1), letter (d).
19 GDPR, article 23, paragraph (1), letter (e).
20 GDPR, article 23, paragraph (2), letter (c).
21 GDPR, article 23, paragraph (2), letter (d).
22 Amended law of 2 August 2002, article 29, paragraph (5).

96

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES concerned has the right to request that a supervisory authority referred to in Article 28 of Directive 95/46/EC or, on
where applicable, the European Data Protection Supervisor verifies the lawfulness of the processing and has the right to
bring the legal action referred to in Article 22 of that directive. … Without prejudice to restrictions on the right
access, the supervisory authority should be able to inform the data subject that all checks
necessary have been carried out by the supervisory authority and the result as regards the lawfulness of the processing in
question. »

Taking into account the above and given the new requirements of the GDPR, the draft law should stipulate
guarantees for data subjects, in particular that they can exercise their right of access to data
concerning them indirectly with the National Commission for Data Protection (for example,
according to the procedures provided for in paragraph (5) of article 29 of the amended law of 2 August 2002).

VII. As for the shelf life

The National Commission recalls that pursuant to Article 4, paragraph (1), letter (d) of the amended law of 2
August 2002 and Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (e) of the GDPR, the data processed must be stored under
a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed. The retention period of personal data
personal being thus one of the fundamental principles relating to the processing of personal data and must
therefore be included in the law.

In order to comply with this principle23, Directive 2015/849 sets the retention period for documents kept by
five years after the end of the business relationship or the transaction entered into on an occasional basis, this
duration being the minimum duration recommended by the FATF24. It then prescribes in its article 40 that the data
must be erased at the end of the retention period, unless "otherwise provided for by national law, which
specifies under what circumstances obliged entities may or must extend the retention of data”.

The draft law incorporates these requirements in its article 6, point 9, specifying that they also apply to
information on the measures that have been taken to identify the economic beneficiaries25.

With regard to the setting of the retention period, Directive 2015/849 grants Member States a
certain leeway in determining it insofar as they can extend the duration
conservation for a period not exceeding five additional years, "after having meticulously
assessed the necessity and proportionality of this prolonged storage and whether it was deemed necessary for the purposes of
prevent or detect acts of money laundering or terrorist financing or to investigate them
matter ". Extending the shelf life is therefore clearly subject to in-depth analysis
the need for the measurement.

23 Directive 2015/849, recital 44.
24 Ibid.
25 Amended law of 12 November 2004, article 3, paragraph (6), 4th paragraph, as introduced by bill no. 7148, article 6, point 9.

97

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD However, according to article 6, point 9 of the bill, professionals could, on their own initiative, extend
the retention period of five years, where this would be “necessary for the effective implementation of the
internal measures for the prevention or detection of acts of money laundering or the financing of
terrorism”26. The commentary to the articles justifies this option by observing that the "information on the
historical behavior of a customer and the people with whom he regularly transacts
constitute essential elements in the assessment of the risks of money laundering or terrorist financing
arising from a particular transaction or business relationship.

The CNPD considers that this general wording does not comply with the precision in Directive 2015/849
that an extension of the shelf life must be based on a thorough analysis of the necessity and
proportionality of the extension. Although the precision made in the commentary of the articles can demonstrate
the need to extend the retention period, the authors of the bill did not carry out an analysis of
the proportionality of the measure.

Furthermore, the imprecise wording that would allow professionals to extend the shelf life of
five years after the end of the initial retention period, if such an extension would be necessary "for the
effective implementation of internal measures”, does not sufficiently limit the cases in which professionals
could proceed with such an extension and could therefore lead to the derogation becoming the rule
and that a multitude of professionals would keep the data beyond the five-year period established by the
Directive 2015/849.

In view of the foregoing, the CNPD considers it necessary for the authors of the bill to provide details as to the
proportionality of this derogation. Furthermore, in the event that this option is maintained, the provision should
further specify the restrictive cases in which professionals could extend the retention period.

These remarks are also valid for the modifications made to the modified law of November 10, 2009
on payment services28.

VIII. Regarding the transfer of personal data

It emerges from the future article 4-1, paragraph (1) of the law of 2004, which would be inserted by article 11 of the bill under
examination, that professionals who are part of a multinational group must implement policies and
effective procedures, including data protection policies, at branch and subsidiary level
majority-owned and established in Member States and third countries.

The National Commission notes that the mechanisms referred to in Articles 18 and 19 of the amended law of 2 August 2002,
or from May 25, 2018, Articles 44 to 49 of the GDPR, must be implemented by the responsible

26 Amended law of 12 November 2004, article 3, paragraph (6), 5th paragraph, as introduced by bill no. 7148, article 6, point 9.
27 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 46.
28 See article 58-4 of the amended law of 10 November 2009 on payment services, as added by bill no. 7128.

98

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES processing when it transfers personal data to third countries. It can be by
example, with regard to transfers to third countries which do not ensure an adequate level of protection of
data, standard data protection clauses or binding corporate rules.

IX. Regarding the processing carried out by the supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies

As mentioned above, the authorities and the FIU are subject to data protection rules
arising from the law from 2002 to the present, and, from 2018, from the rules of the GDPR (bill n° 7184),
respectively those of the law transposing the Police and Justice Directive (bill no. 7168).

To. Administration of registration and domains

 

i. The purposes of the processing carried out by the AED

The new article 8-2, paragraph (4) of the amended law of November 12, 2004 introduces the processing which
could be done by the AED. According to the first paragraph of said paragraph, “the powers of the EDA referred to in paragraph
(1), paragraph 1, include the right to use all the databases for which it is responsible for
processing and to obtain all the information required in order to assess whether a professional complies with the
professional obligations incumbent upon him under this Act.

For the purposes of paragraph 1, the AED has access to the trade and companies register.

The Minister in charge of the Economy will send the AED a monthly statement of professionals
with a business permit and who are subject to the supervisory power of the AED in accordance with
in Article 2-1, paragraph (8)”. As opposed to the first two processing operations, the purpose of this transmission
is not indicated in the text.

The commentary to the articles specifies that the purpose of the three processing operations carried out on the basis of paragraph (4),
namely the subsequent use of its databases, access to the RCS and the transmission of the statement, would consist in
the sole identification of professionals (“Paragraph 4 finds its source in the need for identification by
the AED of the professionals under its supervision”)29. The purposes of the processing are therefore not clearly
determined in the draft text.

However, as this is a matter reserved for the law, the essential points, in this case the purposes of the processing,
must be included in the law. Moreover, as the Council of State has already pointed out on several occasions, “…access to
external files and the communication of computer data to third parties constitute an interference in the life
private and therefore, by virtue of Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, is a matter reserved for formal law”31.

29 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, commentary to the articles, p. 51.
30 See Article 32, paragraph (3) of the Constitution and the opinion of the Council of State of July 14, 2017 on the bill implementing Regulation (EU)
2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions, doc. speak.
no. 7024/08, p. 4.

31 Opinion of the Council of State of 7 June 2016 concerning the bill amending the law of 24 July 2014 concerning State financial aid for studies
superiors, doc. speak. No. 6975/5, p. 4. See also the opinion of the Council of State of December 9, 2014 with regard to bill 6588 on the organization of the sector of
taxi services and modification of the consumer code, doc. speak. No. 6588/8, p. 7.

99

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT In the event that the purpose of the first two processing operations identified in paragraph (4), namely the use of
data appearing in the databases and access to the RCS, would consist in monitoring compliance with the
professional obligations deriving from the law by professionals and that the purpose of the third processing,
namely the transmission of the statement of professionals by the Minister having the Economy in his attributions,
would consist in the identification of professionals, this must be clear from the text of the law. It would be appropriate
therefore follow the chronological order of processing in order to improve the readability of the paragraph, by providing
first the processing(s) carried out to identify the professionals and then the processing implemented at the
purposes of the supervision of professionals by the AED.

 

ii. Personal data processed by the AED

The CNPD is still wondering about the data that could be processed by the AED. More specifically, for this
which is the statement sent by the Minister in charge of the Economy, the bill does not specify the
content, respectively what data would appear on the statement. In this regard, the National Commission refers to
the “Smaranda Bara” judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as “CJEU”) of October 1
2015, in which the CJEU held that “Articles 10, 11 and 13 of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, must be interpreted as meaning that they
oppose national measures, such as those at issue in the main proceedings, which allow an administration
authority of a Member State to transmit personal data to another public administration and their
subsequent processing, without the persons concerned having been informed of this transmission or of this
treatment”32.

So that the transmission can be done in full compliance with the regulations on the protection of
personal data, it is therefore appropriate to adapt the bill in order to indicate in a restrictive manner the
data on the statement.

With regard to the use of "all the databases for which it is responsible for processing", the
CNPD is wondering which databases and which data contained therein would be used, given that neither
the text of the bill under opinion, nor the commentary of the articles does not enumerate them.

The CNPD wishes to recall that, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph (1), letter (b) of the amended law of 2 August
2002 and Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (c) of the GDPR, only the relevant and necessary data with regard to
of the purposes pursued by the controller must be collected. In the absence of precision as to
to the databases concerned and the data processed there, the CNPD cannot rule on the legality,
the necessity or the proportionality of such use and it must insist on the precise indication of the bases of
data and data that the EDA may use.

32 Judgment of 1 October 2015, Smaranda Bara and others, C 201/14, EU:C:2015:638, paragraph 46.

100

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES The CNPD is still wondering about the wording of the provision under examination according to which the AED could “use
to all the databases for which it is responsible for processing and surround itself with all the information
required". Is it data other than that contained in its databases? The comment of
articles remains vague on this subject by indicating that “the EDA will have to surround itself not only with the databases of which
it has internally. … Since these databases are not sufficient to be able to select the
professionals under its supervision it must be able to use databases, such as the register of
commerce and societies”. The provision under review is manifestly too vague and therefore does not respect
the principle of legality and predictability required by European law and case law.

b. Cooperation between the Luxembourg authorities

Pursuant to Article 8-2, paragraph (5) of the amended law of November 12, 2004, in the amended version
by the bill, the AED should cooperate with the Customs and Excise Administration in order to ensure the control
“operators in free zones authorized to carry out their activity by virtue of an approval from the Administration of
customs and excise duties within the confines of the Community customs free zone of the control type I located in the
municipality of Niederanven section B Senningen at a place called Parishaff L-2315 Senningerberg (Hoehenhof)”. THE
two administrations would thus be authorized to “exchange the information necessary for the performance of
their respective missions.

If these exchanges included personal data, the CNPD wonders about the form or
the extent of this cooperation. The authors indicate in the commentary of the articles that it “proves to be essential
to allow the AED to exchange with the ADA all the information essential for this purpose, such as that
concerning the stock accounting of the professionals referred to in point 14bis of chapter 2 of this law”34.

As noted by the authors of the bill, the two administrations are already cooperating under the amended law.
of December 19, 2008 and exchange “the information likely to allow them the correct establishment and the
recovery of import and export duties, excise duties, tax on road vehicles
and value added tax, using automated processes or not” (article 4 of the amended law of 19
December 2008). The Grand-Ducal regulation of 3 December 2009 concerning inter-administrative cooperation
of the Administration of Registration and Domains and the Administration of Customs and Excise sets the
terms of this cooperation.

Taking into account the developments in the previous sections, the CNPD considers it necessary to regulate the
cooperation of the two administrations in the bill, specifying the form of this cooperation and the
data likely to be exchanged and to provide in a Grand-Ducal regulation the conditions, criteria and
terms of the exchange of personal data. They could be inspired by the predicted amended law of 19
December 2008 and its Grand-Ducal implementing regulations.

33 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 51.
34 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 51.

101

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT These remarks also apply to the general cooperation provided for in Article 15 of the
draft law according to which “the supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit cooperate closely. THE
supervisory authorities cooperate closely with each other.

For the purposes of the first paragraph, the supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit are authorized to exchange
the information necessary for the accomplishment of their respective missions within the framework of the fight against
money laundering and against the financing of terrorism. Supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit
use the information exchanged only for the accomplishment of these missions”.

b. The powers of the authorities

Pursuant to article 8-2 of the law of 2004, as modified by the draft law, the supervisory authorities are
vested with certain powers, such as, for example, the right to have access to any document in any form
whatsoever and to receive or make copies thereof and the right to request information from any person and, if necessary,
to summon any person subject to their respective supervisory powers in accordance with Article 2-1 and to
hear it in order to obtain information. Supervisory authorities could still "require the communication
telephone records, electronic communications or data records relating to
to traffic held by persons subject to their respective powers of supervision in accordance with Article
2-1”36. According to the commentary to the articles, this provision takes over the powers that the CSSF has under
of the amended law of 5 April 1993, by aligning them with the powers provided for in article 4 of the amended law of 23
December 2016 on market abuse37.

In this respect, the National Commission would first like to recall recital 31 of the GDPR, according to which "the
requests for disclosure by public authorities should always be made in writing,
be reasoned and of an occasional nature, and should not relate to the entirety of a file or
lead to file interconnection. Processing of personal data by public authorities
in question should be carried out in compliance with the applicable data protection rules in
depending on the purposes of the processing.

Furthermore, the CNPD notes that the commentary to the articles of bill no. 7022 on market abuse
specified that “it should be emphasized that point 6. only refers to existing recordings. It does not follow from
this provision no registration or retention obligation for the entities referred to in point 6.”38.
Such an indication is, however, lacking in the commentary to the articles of this bill. Notwithstanding
the obligation to keep supporting documents and records of transactions and documents, data
and information relating to customer due diligence measures, it is appropriate, for the sake of legal certainty,
to clarify the bill in this regard.

These remarks are also valid with regard to the amendments made to the amended law of 10
November 2009 on payment services39.

35 Article 8-2, paragraph (1), letter (a) and (b) of the amended law of November 12, 2004, as added resulting from the bill.
36 See article 8-2, paragraph (1), letter (d) of the amended law of 12 November 2004, as added by bill no. 7128.
37 Bill no. 7128, doc. speak. no. 7128/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 50.
38 Bill no. 7022, doc. speak. no. 7022/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 22.
39 See article 58-5 of the amended law of 10 November 2009 on payment services, as added by bill no. 7128.

102

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES c. Publication of decisions by supervisory authorities

According to article 8-6 of the amended law of November 12, 2004, as introduced by the draft law, the authorities of
control, namely the CSSF, the CAA and the AED, would be required to publish certain decisions on their website
official. The CNPD has already examined this issue in its opinion of 2 December 2016 on the
bill no. 7022 on market abuse and therefore refers to its recommendation made in point
V. of said notice, in particular with regard to the personal data that would be published and the duration
maximum during which the data would be displayed on the CSSF website.

These remarks are also valid with regard to the amendments made to the amended law of 10
November 2009 on payment services40.
 
d. Reporting violations to supervisory authorities

It appears from the new article 8-6 of the law of 2004, as added by the draft law, that the supervisory authorities
should put in place “effective and reliable mechanisms to encourage the reporting of violations
potential or proven professional obligations in the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism by professionals subject to their power of surveillance…”. The CNPD has already
had the opportunity to comment on the CSSF's whistleblowing mechanisms in the context of its opinion
of December 2, 2016 relating to bill no. 7022 on market abuse41. She notes that this draft
law was accompanied by an annex, which transposed Commission implementing directive (EU) 2015/2392
European Union of 17 December 2015, providing for the terms and guarantees to be complied with by the CSSF when
these mechanisms in place.

In order to ensure the protection of the data processed and the fundamental rights and freedoms of the persons concerned,
it considers that it is appropriate to apply these same terms and guarantees to the reporting mechanisms of
violations put in place by the supervisory authorities and to add similar provisions to the draft law under
opinion, subject to the recommendations issued by the CNPD in this regard in its opinion of 2 December 201642.

These remarks are also valid with regard to the amendments made to the amended law of 10
November 2009 on payment services43.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on January 18, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission
 
Tine A. Larsen
President
 

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

40 See article 58-8 of the amended law of November 10, 2009 on payment services, as added by bill no. 7128.
41 Bill no. 7022, doc. speak. No. 7022/04.
42 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7022, doc. speak. no. 7022/04, p. 8.
43 See article 58-10 of the amended law of 10 November 2009 on payment services, as added by bill no. 7128.

103

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Additional opinion of the National Data Protection Commission with regard to
Bill No. 7113 on Social Inclusion Income

Deliberation n° 59/2018 of January 23, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "the amended law of 2 August
2002”), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter: “the CNPD”) has in particular for
mission to notify "all bills or proposals for legislation creating a treatment as well as on all
regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated October 25, 2017, the Minister of Family and Integration sent the CNPD a
series of government amendments to bill no. 7113 relating to Social Inclusion Income (hereafter
"the amendments").

As a reminder, the CNPD issued, on December 22, 2016, a first opinion on the draft law on income
of social inclusion44 in which it made various observations concerning in particular the concept of
responsible for processing, the roles of the various stakeholders in the process of granting and managing Revenue
social inclusion (hereinafter: “the Revis”), the purposes of the processing and the categories of data processed, the
access to other state files, as well as the transfer of data to the General Inspectorate of Social Security
as part of its mission to collect statistical data. The authors indicate in the remarks
preliminary that the amendments provide, among other things, a clarification of the provisions relating to the protection
personal data and their exchange between the actors concerned.

The commentary to article 25 of the bill specifies that the amendment in question takes into account the remarks
formulated in the CNPD opinion of 22 December 2016. Indeed, most of the recommendations issued by the
CNPD in its first opinion on the said article have been taken into account by the authors of the amendments.
The data categories of the files to which the minister can access on the basis of article 25, paragraph (2)
of the bill, as well as the categories of data contained in the Revis file under paragraph
(1), paragraph 2 of said article, are provided for in article 9 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, of which the amendments
government were transmitted together with the bill under notice.

On the other hand, the CNPD issues a reservation concerning the retention period of the data contained in the file.
of the Review. Article 25, paragraph (8) of the draft law provides in this context that the data is stored
as long as the person is a beneficiary of the Revis and after that the data will be archived for the purposes
statistics in accordance with article 12 of the bill.

44 Deliberation no. 1029/2016 of 22 December 2016 of the National Commission for Data Protection.

104

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES However, it appears from the comments to the articles that the data will be archived not for statistical purposes, but
“in order to avoid having to establish a new social relationship each time a file is reopened instead of a
updating, archiving, unlike the deletion of data, allows the recovery of data at
the reactivation of the file. » Is the purpose pursued by archiving therefore the establishment of
statistics or rather the possibility of an easier reopening of a file of a former applicant or beneficiary
Revis?

The CNPD can understand the practical usefulness of temporary archiving of data to reactivate a
file of a former applicant or beneficiary of the Revis, in relation to their immediate deletion after the
closure of a file. Nevertheless, according to article 4, paragraph (1), letter d) of the amended law of 2 August 2002, the
data must not be kept for a period exceeding that necessary for the achievement of the purposes
for which they were collected. This principle is incompatible with an indefinite retention period.
Datas. Indeed, the CNPD is of the opinion that the achievement of the purposes provided for in Article 25, paragraph
(1), paragraph 3 of the draft law under examination does not justify archiving of personal data for a period of time
indeterminate.

It is important in this context to take into account, like the position of the National Commission
of the French Computing and Liberties (CNIL), the difference between intermediate archives, a step
intermediary before the deletion of the data, and the definitive archives which gather the data presenting
historical, scientific or statistical interest justifying that they should not be destroyed45. Is it
that the archiving provided for by the authors of the amendments constitutes an intermediate archiving, allowing
a fixed period the reopening of a file of a former applicant or beneficiary of the Revis, or rather a
final archiving?

In the case of permanent archiving, the CNPD considers that only anonymized data can be
permanently archived for statistical purposes. In addition, during an intermediate archiving of data,
it is important that only people who have an interest in knowing them because of their functions do so
access. In the latter case, the question arises whether the data will be stored in pseudonymized form or
in a nominative way allowing the persons concerned to be directly identified?

Thus, the CNPD suggests to the authors of the amendments to state in the body of the text of the bill a
side for what precise duration the data of the applicants or beneficiaries of the Revis will be kept in
the active and operational database of the Revis file, and on the other hand for how long they
will be kept in the intermediate archives and if a complete anonymization of the data for the purposes
final archiving will be scheduled after a certain period. It should also be noted that the retention period of the data
for intermediate archiving should be limited to one or two years, while a longer period would not be
not compatible with the principle that data must be accurate and up-to-date.

45 See on the CNIL website “Limiting the retention of data”, available at: https://www.cnil.fr/fr/limiter-la-conservation-des-donnees.

105

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Furthermore, the CNPD regrets that the observations made during its first opinion on the
Articles 26 and 49 (the current Article 51) were not included in the bill. As such, she had formulated in
its opinion of December 22, 2016 the following comments:

“According to article 26, the Office communicates with the authorization of the Minister for the Family and Integration of data
pseudonymised to the General Inspectorate of Social Security, which may dispose of them as part of its mission to
collect necessary statistical data at the national and international level “according to a statistical plan and
uniform accounting system for all social institutions” (article 423, point (4) of the Social Security Code).

In this context, the CNPD draws attention to the difference between pseudonymized and anonymized data. According
the “article 29” working party on data protection “anonymisation is the result of the processing of
personal data in order to irreversibly prevent any identification” while “the pseudonymization
is not an anonymization method. It simply reduces the correlation of a data set with
the original identity of a data subject and is therefore a useful security measure. »46

Unlike anonymous data, merely pseudonymised data always falls under the scope
application of the amended law of 2 August 2002.

Therefore, the CNPD asks itself the question whether the establishment of national and international statistics justifies the
communication of pseudonymised data? Wouldn't a communication of anonymous data be
sufficient?

This text is not precise enough to be able to determine which data should, if any, be
communicated, in pseudonymised form, for statistical purposes to the IGSS. In its current wording, the ONIS,
should, at the request of the IGSS, communicate all of its data (in pseudonymised form) to the IGSS.
The question therefore arises of the necessity and proportionality of the data communicated.

The same observations above are also valid with regard to Article 49 which also introduces a
communication with authorization of the pseudonymised data contained in the files of the social offices to
the IGSS. »

Finally, the CNPD notes that amendment 20 provides for the addition of an article 17ter to the amended law of July 30
1960 concerning the creation of a national solidarity fund, allowing said fund to access within the framework of
the exercise of its missions, by way of interconnections, to various state files. Subsection (3) of the article in
cause adds that "the information accessed must be limited to the data necessary for the investigation of the law
to one of the Fund's services, its payment, its control and the revision of the conditions of access. »

46 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation Techniques adopted on 10 April 2014, p.

106

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES The CNPD wishes to recall in this regard the requirement of the Constitutional Court that “in matters
reserved by the Constitution to the law, the essence of the normative framework must result from the law, including the ends, the
conditions and methods according to which less essential elements can be regulated by regulations
and decrees issued by the Grand Duke. »47

The Council of State also regularly recalls in its opinions that “(…) access to external files and the
communication of computer data to third parties constitutes an interference with privacy and therefore, in
under Article 11(3) of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. In this case, the main
of the normative framework must appear in the law.

The law must indicate the databases to which a public authority may have access or to which a public authority
public may have data communicated to it, as well as the purposes of this access or communication
(…). »48

Based on the above considerations, the CNPD considers that Article 17ter of the amended law of July 30, 1960
concerning the creation of a national solidarity fund should list, for each state file concerned, the
personal data to which the National Solidarity Fund can access. This access should be limited
to data that are adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are
collected and for which they are further processed (Article 4, paragraph (1) letter b) of the amended law
of August 2, 2002).

The CNPD thus considers that in the current state, article 17ter of the said amended law of July 30, 1960 does not respect
the requirements of precision and predictability that a legal text must meet and cannot be considered
as being in conformity with article 4 of the modified law of August 2, 2002.

For the rest, the National Commission has no other observations to make.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on January 23, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

47 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of March 20, 2015
48 See for example: Council of State, Opinion n° 6975/5 of June 7, 2016 relating to the bill amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning financial assistance

state for higher education.

107

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the preliminary draft
Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the organization and working methods of the service
national coordination body for organ donations

Deliberation n° 79/2018 of January 31, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
of persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as "the law of 2 August
2002”), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter: “the National Commission” or
"the CNPD") has the particular mission of notifying "all bills or proposals for the creation of a
processing as well as on all regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis of this
law ".

Following the request sent to it by the Minister of Health on September 20, 2017, the
CNPD intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation
relating to the organization and working methods of the national organ donation coordination service.

The purpose of this draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to define the organization and working methods
the national coordination service for the removal and transplantation of organs (hereinafter, the “service
national coordinating body”). This national coordination service has the particular mission of recording under
electronic form the data referred to in Annex I of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 27 August 2013 concerning the
characterization, transport and exchange of organs intended for transplantation (Article 2 paragraph (2), 2nd
indent, 2nd paragraph). In addition, it establishes and maintains a list of coordinators involved in the transplantation and
organ procurement, and a list of patients awaiting organ transplants (Article 3).

The National Commission limits its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to the protection of
data, raised more particularly by Articles 2, 3 and 7 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under
review.

 

1. Preliminary remark

As a preliminary point, the CNPD would like to point out that the aforementioned articles of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation
aim to create a new personal data file within the meaning of article 2 letter (h) of the law of
August 2, 2002 and Article 4 point (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of
27 April 2016, which will be applicable from 25 May 2018 in all Member States of the European Union
(hereinafter: “the GDPR”).

108

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES It would like to emphasize in this context the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of data processing
of a personal nature which must be read in the light of Article 8, paragraph 2 of the European Convention on
human rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52, paragraphs (1) and
(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two articles, together
with the constant case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a processing of
data carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for private life
or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified provided
that she:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, a
interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) of
the Convention only if it is based on an article of national law which has certain characteristics. The law must
be “accessible to those affected and predictable in its impact”49. A rule is predictable "if
it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – possibly benefiting from a
appropriate assistance – to adapt one's behavior”50. “The degree of precision required of the “law” in this respect
will depend on the subject in question. »51

In the same sense, Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR provides for this particular constraint linked to the lawfulness of a
data processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest
or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In these two cases of
figure, the basis and purposes of the data processing must be specifically provided for either by law
of the European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

According to that article, these legal bases should contain specific provisions concerning, inter alia, the
types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the data may be communicated
and for what purposes, limitation of purposes, data retention periods or operations
and processing procedures.

The National Commission considers that the amended law of 25 November 1982 regulating the sampling of substances
of human origin, in particular in its articles 15 and following, constitutes a legal basis sufficiently
accessible and foreseeable, provided that the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination is sufficiently precise

49 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

50 CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para. 66;

CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

51 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

109

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT the controller, the purposes of the processing, the categories of data processed, the origin of the data,
the persons having access to the data and the retention period of the data. For each of these elements,
the CNPD intends to detail its observations below.

 

2. The controller

Article 2 paragraph (2), 2nd indent, 3rd paragraph of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under consideration provides that
“the national coordination service is responsible for processing the medical data which is recorded
in electronic form following the characterization of organ donors and organs, within the meaning of the law
amended of August 2 [2002] on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
staff ".

Article 7 paragraph (2), 2nd paragraph of the same draft indicates that “establishments
hospitals are responsible for the processing and transfer of personal data contained in the file
individual to the actors involved in the removal and [transplantation] of organs provided for in paragraphs
precedents, within the meaning of the amended law of 2 August [2002] relating to the protection of persons with regard to
processing of personal data”.

Finally, article 3, 2nd indent, paragraphs 3 and 4, specifies that “hospital establishments are responsible for the
transfer of administrative data from the medical file within the meaning of the amended law of August 2 [2002] (…)”, while
that "the national coordination service is responsible for processing the administrative data of the file
within the meaning of the amended law of August 2 [2002] (…)”.

The National Commission does not understand this distinction made by the authors of the preliminary draft
of Grand-Ducal regulation between medical data on the one hand, and administrative data (from the file
medical) on the other hand. Moreover, the authors of the draft law do not explain what is meant by
administrative data. All the different data referred to constitute in any case
because of personal data. In addition, medical data, or data relating to the
health within the meaning of article 6 of the law of August 2, 2002 and article 9 of the GDPR, are obviously linked to a
identified person. It therefore appears artificial to separate medical data from so-called
"administrative".

Furthermore, the distinction between "controller" and "transfer manager" does not appear.
timely. Indeed, while the concept of controller refers to the definition of Article 2 letter (n)
of the law of August 2, 2002, and of article 4 number (7) of the GDPR, that of “transfer manager” does not correspond
not to a terminology used in these legislations. In addition, any transfer constituting a processing operation,
the notion of “transfer manager” appears superfluous.

110

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Based on these considerations, the National Commission suggests that the authors of the preliminary draft regulation
Grand Ducal to replace the aforementioned passages with a single provision, according to which the national service of
coordination is the data controller for the data to be included in the data file at
personal nature regarding organ donation.

Finally, the CNPD wonders whether hospitals should be considered as suppliers
data to be included in the personal data file concerning organ donations,
insofar as the patient file for which the hospital establishment is responsible for processing provides information
obviously already information relating to the patient's state of health respectively the need for a transplant
organ? Or if they should be considered as processors, processing certain data on behalf of the
national coordination service? In any event, their role should be clarified in the preliminary draft
grand-ducal regulation under object.

 

3. The purposes of the processing

Article 2 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides for the role and missions of national service
coordination. The latter is responsible in particular for recording in electronic form the data referred to
in Annex I of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 27 August 2013 concerning the characterization, transport and exchange
organs intended for transplantation (Article 2 paragraph (2), 2nd indent, 2nd paragraph). Article 3 adds
establishing and updating a list of coordinators involved in transplantation and removal
of organs, and a list of patients awaiting an organ transplant.

The National Commission understands that these are the purposes of the data processing that will be implemented
by the national coordination service.

 

4. The categories of data processed

Article 2, paragraph (2), 2nd indent refers to Article 1 of the aforementioned Grand-Ducal Regulation of 27 August 2013,
as well as in its appendix I. Said appendix I exhaustively lists all the personal data
processed for the characterization of organs and donors.

It is subdivided into part A containing the minimum data, i.e. the information which must be
collected for each donation, and part B which contains the additional data, i.e. the information
which must be collected in addition to the minimum data according to the decision of the medical team, taking into account
the availability of this information and the particular circumstances of the case.

It can be seen from Article 3 that a list of the coordinators involved in the transplantation and the removal of organs,

111

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD and a list of patients awaiting an organ transplant are also processed by the national health service.
coordination. However, this article does not indicate whether this list only contains the contact data of the
coordinators and patients awaiting transplant, or other personal data associated therewith. There
National Commission considers it essential to indicate precisely which categories of data are processed
in this framework.

Article 3 also refers to “administrative data from the medical file”. It emerges from
comment of the articles that these data “relate to the data collected during the clinical examination,
namely the data obtained during the anamnesis (questioning the patient on his state of health) as well as
that the medical data (more precisely the paraclinical data) obtained during examinations
complementary”. As further explained in section 1 of this opinion, the National Commission
does not understand this distinction between "administrative data" and "medical data", and proposes
when referring in the article in question to all the data that is processed by the national service of
coordination.

 

5. The origin of the data

It follows from Article 1 of the aforementioned Grand-Ducal Regulation of 27 August 2013 that the data referred to in Article
2, paragraph (2), 2nd indent of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under subject “are collected by the
collection establishments for each organ donation”.

Article 3, 2nd indent, paragraph 2, of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination provides that the
administrative data from the medical file come from the country's hospitals. As indicated
in Section 1 of this Opinion, however, the National Commission does not understand whether this means that the
hospital establishments must be considered as providers of certain data, or as subcontractors
processors, in this case processing these data on behalf of the national coordination service?

Furthermore, the CNPD refers to sections 1 and 4 of this opinion, where it expresses its questions about
the distinction made between “administrative data” and “medical data”. Therefore, she considers
essential to specify the origin of all the data processed by the national coordination service, and not of the
only “administrative data from the medical file”.

 

6. Persons having access to the data

Neither article 2 nor article 3 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination specifies what are the
persons who will have access to the personal data file concerning organ donations, in addition to the
national coordination service itself.

112

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES In the event that certain data could be transmitted to third parties, the National Commission considers
essential to specify this in the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under subject.

 

7. Data retention period

Article 3, second indent, paragraph 5 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination provides that the
administrative data from the medical file will be kept “for a minimum period of 30 years and for a
maximum duration of 50 years”. In the absence of justification for these retention periods in the commentary
of the articles, the National Commission is not in a position to assess the proportionality of the durations of
conservation of administrative data of the medical file.

Moreover, it does not understand the reason for such a disparity between retention periods. Unless
that the authors of the draft bill under object justify why in certain cases, the data must be
kept for 30 years and in others for 40 or 50 years, the CNPD favors the option of providing for a single duration
storage for all processed data. Without further explanation, such a disparity between the
retention periods would not make sense to the National Commission.

On the other hand, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not provide for a retention period for the other
data referred to in Article 3, namely the list of coordinators involved in the transplantation and removal
of organs, and the list of patients awaiting an organ transplant.

Similarly, Article 2 does not indicate for how long the national coordination service must record under
electronic form the data referred to in Annex I of the aforementioned Grand-Ducal Regulation of 27 August
2013.

The National Commission considers it necessary to provide for all the retention periods relating to the
aforementioned categories of data. In any case, the data cannot be "kept in a form
allowing the identification of the persons concerned [only] for a period not exceeding that necessary for
the achievement of the purposes for which they are collected and processed”, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph
(1), letter (d) of the law of August 2, 2002.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on January 31, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

113

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
grand-ducal regulation on radiation protection

Deliberation n° 138/2018 of February 23, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated September 20, 2017, the Minister of Health invited the National Commission to
to decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on radiation protection (hereinafter the "draft regulation
grand-ducal”).

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to transpose into national law Directive 2013/59/Euratom of 5 December
2013, the expiry date of which was set for February 6, 2018 and it will implement the future law relating to i) the protection
health of persons against the dangers resulting from exposure to ionizing radiation and the safety of
sources of ionizing radiation against malicious acts, and (ii) the management of radioactive waste,
transport of radioactive materials and import, and iii) establishing an electronic radiological logbook
(hereinafter “the draft law on radiation protection”) which was the subject of an opinion by the National Commission
on July 14, 2017 (deliberation no. 596/2017).

The main objectives of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation are to establish “a national legal framework in terms of
the health protection of persons against the dangers resulting from exposure to ionizing radiation
and the security of ionizing radiation sources against malicious acts”52.

For its part, the National Commission intends to limit its observations to the questions raised by the provisions
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination dealing with aspects relating to respect for privacy and the
protection of personal data.

I) The dosimetry service:

 

The data concerned:

The National Commission understands that the role of the dosimetry service can, inter alia, be provided by a service

52cf. Explanatory memorandum, last sentence.

114

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES authorized by the Minister according to the criteria specified in Article 11 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. There
CNPD is not in a position to determine whether the principle of data minimization has been respected while the
articles 9 to 11 of the draft grand-ducal regulation do not specify the exact data communicated to such a
dosimetry service.

In addition, Article 39 paragraph (3) number (5°) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation indicates that the services
authorized dosimetry operators also benefit from access to the central dosimetry register “with regard to the
data referred to in this article, which they provide”. With regard to the dosimetry service, it does not appear
not from this article what exact data is reported to the central dosimetry registry. Therefore, the
National Commission cannot comment on the legitimacy of the data processing carried out by the
dosimetry service.

II) The central dosimetry register:

Article 38 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation indicates the data relating to the identity of
exposed workers and mentions that a unique identification number will be included in the dosimetry register
central. If it is the national identity number, the National Commission recommends that the text of this article
refers to the law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons, to the national register of
natural persons, to the identity card, to the municipal registers of natural persons.

The CNPD welcomes that access to the central dosimetry register of each actor is limited to
data as specified in Article 39 paragraph (3) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. However, the
National Commission refers to its comment under point I) of this opinion with regard to the services
of dosimetry.

In addition, the National Commission notes that all persons subject to dosimetric monitoring will have
access to data concerning them and, consequently, also external workers (who do not have a relationship
directly with the headteacher).

The CNPD notes for all intents and purposes that in Article 39 paragraph (3) numbers (2°) and (3°) and (4°) the authors of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation certainly wanted to refer to Article 38 instead of Article 37.
the same goes for the mention of Article 37 in Article 40 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. By
elsewhere, Article 38 paragraph (1) refers to a paragraph (6) which does not exist in this article.

III) The radiological notebook:

The National Commission wonders why the draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not contain provisions
concerning the electronic radiological logbook, whereas, according to the explanatory memorandum, the draft regulation

115

2018 ANNUAL REPORT Ducal CNPD is also supposed to implement the third part of the radiation protection bill, which concerns the creation
an electronic radiological notebook.

For the rest, the National Commission has no other observations to make.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on February 23, 2018.

The National Commission for Data Protection,

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

116

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation determining the compensation payable to the President, the
members and alternate members of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 July 2003

Deliberation n° 139/2018 of March 1, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated January 11, 2018, the Minister of Communications and Media invited the
National Commission to rule on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the compensation
for the President, members and alternate members of the National Commission for the Protection
data (hereinafter the “draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).

The adoption at European level of the legislative package on data protection, including the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and Directive (EU) 2016/680, will result in national legislation having to
be repealed. Indeed, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be directly applicable from 25 May 2018. However, the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will have to be accompanied by an implementing law in order to find a good
application at the national level. This Bill 7184 establishing the National Commission
for data protection and the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, amending the law
of March 25, 2015 setting the salary regime and the terms and conditions for the advancement of
civil servants and repealing the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "the draft law") will essentially consist of
the necessary provisions regarding the organization and composition of the National Commission for
Data protection.

This draft Grand-Ducal regulation is therefore part of the implementation of Articles 23 and 27 of the
draft law which provide for compensation to be paid to the President, to members other than the President and to
alternate members of the National Commission for Data Protection.

117

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Pursuant to the second paragraph of article 23 of bill 7184, the indemnity takes into account the commitment required by
functions.

The draft Grand-Ducal Regulation under review is an exact copy of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 7 July 2003
determining the compensation payable to the Chairman, effective members and alternate members of the
National Commission for Data Protection which is now to be repealed.

Indeed, the Grand-Ducal regulation of 2003 had been adopted in execution of Articles 34 paragraph (2) paragraphs 10 and
12 of the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel, which contain provisions similar to those of articles 23 and 27 of the future organic law of
the CNPD.

The National Commission does not intend to comment on the allowances payable to the President and (effective) members.
of the National Commission. It only wishes to point out that by the effect of the automatic indexing and the
successive increases in the value of the point, the compensation provided for in 2003 did not lose value with
the weather.

It is different with regard to the compensation of alternate members, expressed not in points, but
in euros, for which the question should be asked whether the amount of €60.- planned in 2003 per session
schedule, still takes into account the commitment required by this function.

As regards the form, the National Commission agrees with the comment made by the Chamber of
civil servants and public employees in that in Article 1 paragraph (1) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation the word
“cents” should be deleted. It is also necessary to remove the “.-” signs behind 150 and 120.

For the rest, the National Commission has no other observations to make.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on March 1, 2018.

The National Commission for Data Protection,

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

118

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation determining the seat of the National Commission for the
data protection and repealing the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 7 July 2003 on
transfer of the headquarters of the National Commission for Data Protection

Deliberation n° 140/2018 of March 1, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated January 11, 2018, the Minister of Communications and Media invited the
National Commission to rule on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the seat of the
National Commission for Data Protection and repealing the Grand-Ducal Regulation of July 7, 2003
transferring the headquarters of the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter the "draft
Grand-Ducal regulation”).

The adoption at European level of the legislative package on data protection, including the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and Directive (EU) 2016/680, will result in national legislation
should be repealed. Indeed, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be directly applicable from 25 May 2018. However,
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will have to be accompanied by an implementing law in order to find a good
application at the national level. This Bill 7184 establishing the National Commission for the
data protection and the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, amending the law of
March 25, 2015 setting the salary system and the terms and conditions of advancement for civil servants
of the State and repealing the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of persons with regard to
processing of personal data (hereinafter "the draft law") will essentially include the
necessary provisions regarding the organization and composition of the National Commission for the Protection
Datas.

This draft Grand-Ducal regulation is part of the implementation of Article 2 of the draft law in that it
agrees to establish the seat of the National Commission for Data Protection.

119

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Under the terms of said article 2, the seat of the National Commission for Data Protection will be determined by
grand-ducal regulation. Article 1 of this draft Grand-Ducal regulation determines the seat of the Commission
national in Esch-sur-Alzette.

The formulation reproduces the terms of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 July 2003 transferring the headquarters of the
National Commission for Data Protection, Grand-Ducal regulation that the authors of the project under review
also plan to repeal.

The National Commission would like to point out that it is already installed in Esch-sur-Alzette at the Bâtiment
administrative office of the State located at 1, Avenue du Rock’n’Roll, as well as to the former “Container du Fonds Belval”, located at 6,
avenue des Hauts Fourneaux. If it is true that it is looking for a solution that allows the grouping and
the expansion of the staff of the National Commission, this solution could very well be found in Esch-sur-Alzette.

In view of the above, maintaining the headquarters in Esch-sur-Alzette is appropriate.

For the rest, the National Commission has no other observations to make.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on March 1, 2018.

The National Commission for Data Protection,

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

120

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the bill
on macroprudential measures relating to residential mortgages
and amending the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector, and
of the law of 1 April 2015 establishing a systemic risk committee and amending
the amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and the Central Bank
from Luxemburg

Deliberation n° 220/2018 of March 29, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
of persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as "the law of 2 August
2002”), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter: “the National Commission” or “the
CNPD") has the particular mission of advising "all bills or proposals for the creation of a processing
as well as on all regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis of this law”.

Following the request sent to it by the Minister of Finance dated December 12, 2017,
the CNPD intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the draft law on measures
macroprudential rules relating to residential real estate loans and amending the amended law of 5 April
1993 relating to the financial sector, and the law of 1 April 2015 establishing a systemic risk committee and
amending the amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and to the Central Bank of Luxembourg.

The purpose of this bill is to supplement the legislative framework in terms of macroprudential tools to
available to the Luxembourg authorities through the introduction of macroprudential measures that can be used
specifically in the event of a threat to the financial stability of the national financial system arising from developments
in the real estate sector in Luxembourg.

The National Commission limits its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to the protection of
data, raised more particularly by article 2 of the bill under consideration.

This article introduces a right of access for the Banque centrale du Luxembourg (hereafter: “the BCL”) “to information
aggregated data available from state administrations, public establishments other than those placed under the
supervision of municipalities and other competent state authorities insofar as this information is
necessary for its research and analysis activities in relation to the mission of the Systemic Risk Committee”.

The authors of the bill under object justify this right of access in the explanatory memorandum by the need for the
BCL to carry out analyzes and studies “in order to identify as soon as possible the systemic risks that may appear
in the financial system. However, “the establishment of such a framework does not go without access to a range of data”.

121

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The National Commission notes that this extended right of access of the BCL is limited to “aggregated information”.
Without further details on what is meant by “aggregate information”, she wonders if these terms
correspond to anonymised data or pseudonymised data?

The distinction between anonymous or anonymized data, on the one hand, and pseudonymised data, on the other hand,
is important. Indeed, this distinction determines the applicability of the law of 2 August 2002, and, from 25
May 2018, of the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (EU) (hereinafter: “the GDPR”). The law
as the GDPR apply to the processing of personal data, i.e. to any information
relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (referred to as the "data subject") (Article 2 (e) of
the law and Article 4 (1) of the GDPR).

It follows that pseudonymised data falls under the definition of personal data when
that the data subject can be identified or identifiable. When talking about pseudonymised data,
it may indeed be possible to trace the identity of a person. This is the case, for example, if there is a
list of concordance between the pseudonymised data and the data subject. It's important to
note that, even if the data controller (in this case the BCL) does not effectively
implement means to identify the data subject, or does not itself have a list
of concordance,
all means, by
example by analyzing and comparing the different variables used and collected in a
range of data. Therefore, the law such as the GDPR applies to pseudonymised data, since it
these are personal data within the meaning of Article 2 (e) of the law and Article 4 point (1) of the GDPR.
Pseudonymizing or encoding the data may, however, constitute an appropriate safeguard intended to
strengthen the confidentiality and security of processing within the meaning of articles 22 and 23 of the law or article 3253
of the GDPR.

the data subject is likely to be

reidentified by

On the contrary, anonymous or anonymized data is excluded from the scope of the law or the GDPR. For
be deemed anonymous or rendered anonymous, it must be data for which there is no means
technical, either on the part of the controller (i.e. the BCL), or even on the part of a
third parties (for example the state administration or the public establishment from which the data originates), allowing
to link this data to an individual. It is up to the data controller to provide proof that the
data it processes are to be qualified as anonymous data. We then speak of irreversible anonymization, made, by
example, by hashing techniques.

Indeed, according to recital 26 of the GDPR54, "the principles relating to the protection of
data to any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. Character data
personnel who have been pseudonymised and which could be attributed to a natural person by
recourse to additional information should be considered as information concerning a

53 See in particular Article 32 paragraph (1) letter (a) of the GDPR.
54 See also recital 26 of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of natural persons

with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free movement of such data, which was transposed by the law of 2 August 2002 into national law.

122

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES identifiable natural person. In determining whether a natural person is identifiable, consideration should be given to
consideration all the means reasonably likely to be used by the controller
or by any other person to identify the natural person directly or indirectly, such as targeting.
To establish whether means are reasonably likely to be used to identify a natural person,
consideration should be given to all objective factors, such as the cost of identification and
the time necessary for it, taking into account the technologies available at the time of the processing and
the evolution of these. It is therefore not necessary to apply the principles relating to data protection
anonymous information, i.e. information that does not relate to an identified natural person or
identifiable, nor to personal data rendered anonymous in such a way that the data subject
is not or no longer identifiable. This Regulation therefore does not apply to the processing of such
anonymous information, including for statistical or research purposes”.

Therefore, the CNPD suggests specifying, in the light of the observations made above, whether the bill under
intends to allow the BCL to access anonymized or pseudonymized data.

In the case of anonymised data, the National Commission proposes replacing the terms “information
aggregated” by “aggregated and anonymized data”, in order to remove any possible ambiguity on the nature of the
data that could be subject to a right of access by the BCL. In this case, the law, or from May 25
2018, the GDPR, would not be intended to apply to the collection of such data.

However, in the event that the "aggregate information" should qualify as pseudonymised data, the law
of 2002, respectively the GDPR from 25 May 2018, will apply with all the consequences that
resulting. If such were the case, the provision under consideration would be manifestly too vague and would not respect
therefore not the principle of legality and foreseeability required by European law and case law. In effect,
as explained in recital 41 of the GDPR, a legal basis or a legislative measure which serves as the basis for a
data processing "should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for litigants,
in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of
human rights ". In order to meet these criteria, the authors of the bill under object could in this
hypothesis refer to other recent bills on which the National Commission for the Protection
data published an opinion55.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on March 29, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

55 See, for example, the CNPD's opinion of December 7, 2017 on draft law no. 7182 amending the amended law of April 16, 1979 establishing the status
General of State Officials and various provisions (deliberation 973/2017), or the opinion of the CNPD of January 18, 2018 relating to the draft law
no. 7128 (deliberation 51/2018).

123

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the file
shared care

Deliberation n° 242/2018 of April 5, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated 28 September 2017, the Minister of Social Security invited the Commission
national authority to decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for implementing
place of the shared care file (hereinafter "the draft Grand-Ducal regulation" or "the draft").

This project lays down the regulatory framework applicable to the shared care file (hereinafter “the DSP”). It is taken into
application of article 60quater of the Social Security Code, introduced by the law of 17 December 2010 on
health care system reform.

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation details the terms and conditions for setting up the DSP. He thus sets the
main principles applicable to the creation of the DSP (article 2), its activation and its access by the holder of the said
file (article 3), its closure and deletion (article 4), access to the DSP by healthcare professionals (article
5), to the holder's rights of access, writing and opposition (article 6), to non-emancipated minor holders and
adult holders protected by law (article 7), to the access and writing rights of health professionals (article
8), the traceability of accesses and actions (article 9), the deadline for submitting data to the DSP (article 10), the
security of the national electronic platform (article 11), to the technical methods of data transfers
PSD and interoperability (article 12) and cross-border cooperation and exchanges (article 13).

As a reminder, on 24 November 201057 the National Commission issued an opinion on the draft law on
reform of the health care system in which she made her observations on the implementation
of the DSP.

The CNPD notes that Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the

56 Law of 17 December 2010 reforming the health care system (Memorial A-2010-242 of 27 December 2010, p. 4041, doc. parl. 6196).
57 Deliberation no. 345/2010 of November 24, 2010 issuing an opinion from the CNPD on the bill reforming the health care system and amending 1. the Code

de la Sécurité sociale, 2. the amended law of 28 August 1998 on hospital establishments, doc. speak. 6196/04.

124

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “the GDPR”) will be applicable in
all Member States of the European Union from 25 May 2018.

Thus, it considers that there is no longer any interest in analyzing the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in the light of the law.
amended on August 2, 2002, which is the legislation currently in force, but solely on the basis of the provisions
of the GDPR.

The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the draft regulation
grand-ducal having an impact on respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff. It proposes to follow the drafting order of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to express its
recommendations.

X. Preliminary remarks

  To. Legitimacy basis for the creation of the DSP

Article 60quater of the Social Security Code, as well as the provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation under examination
provide that a DSP will be automatically activated for all patients as soon as they are affiliated with Luxembourg health insurance
and that he has not indicated his opposition (“opt-out” system), unlike the solution of the French legislator
who opted to base the creation of an electronic file for beneficiaries of health insurance on their
prior consent58 (“opt-in” system).

It is not for the CNPD to comment on the political choice made by the legislator in 2010, opting for a
opt-out system. However, it should be analyzed whether an opt-out system introduced at the time under the directive
95/4659 and the amended law of August 2, 2002 is still compatible with the provisions of the GDPR which will be
applicable from 25 May 2018.

Contrary to the position of the Chamber of Employees expressed in its opinion of November 14, 2017, as well as
that of the Association of Doctors and Dentists (AMMD), COPAS and the Syndicate of Pharmacists
Luxembourgish, set out in a letter addressed to the President of the European Commission, Mr
Jean-Claude Juncker, dated January 4, 2018, the CNPD does not see a priori any incompatibility in principle with the
GDPR, for the following reasons.

First of all, Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1) letters (c) and (e), provides
a particular constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
or for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller. In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the data processing

58 Articles L.1111-8 and L.1111-14 and following of the Public Health Code.
59 Directive 95/46/EC of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free

circulation of this data will be repealed on May 25, 2018 by the GDPR.

125

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD must be specifically provided for either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State to which
the controller is subject.

With specific regard to the processing of special categories of personal data,
recital (54) of the GDPR recognizes cases in which the processing of special categories
of personal data (so-called "sensitive" data) "may be necessary for reasons of interest
public in the fields of public health, without the consent of the person concerned. Such treatment
should be the subject of appropriate and specific measures in order to protect the rights and freedoms of persons
physical”.

Indeed, in addition to the assumption of explicit consent of the person (article 9 paragraph (2) letter a) of the GDPR),
several situations may legitimize processing of special categories of personal data
personal, in particular health data. This is particularly the case when “the processing is necessary
for reasons of public interest in the field of public health, such as protection against threats
serious cross-border cases affecting health, or for the purpose of guaranteeing high standards of quality and safety of
healthcare and medicinal products or medical devices, on the basis of Union or State law
member which provides for appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the person
concerned, in particular professional secrecy” (Article 9 paragraph (2) letter i) of the GDPR), or even when
"the processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest, on the basis of Union law or
of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective pursued, respect the essence of the right to protection of
data and provide for appropriate and specific measures to safeguard fundamental rights and
interests of the data subject” (Article 9 paragraph (2) letter g) of the GDPR).

The National Commission considers that the data processing implemented by means of a DSP automatically activated,
with the possibility for the holder to oppose it, could relate to reasons of important public interest, and more
specifically grounds of public interest in the field of public health referred to in Article 9 paragraph (2)
letters i) and g) of the aforementioned GDPR of the GDPR, provided that national law provides for it and that this legislation
provides for such “appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the individual
concerned".

Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR further specifies that the “legal basis may contain specific provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of the Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the
processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people
concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes
for which they may be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations and
processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those
provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX”.

126

5ANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES Recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or the law of a Member State
determine the purpose of the processing. In addition, this right could specify the general conditions of this
regulations governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the specifications aimed at
determine the data controller, the type of personal data being processed,
the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data may be communicated,
purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure lawful processing and
loyal. […]”.

Recital (41) further states that "this legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise
and its application should be predictable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice
of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights. »

Thus, the National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of processing
of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the Convention
European Court of Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights,
an interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2)
of the Convention, unless it is based on an article of national law which has certain characteristics. The law
must be “accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions”60. A rule is predictable
“if it is formulated with sufficient precision to enable any person – possibly benefiting
appropriate assistance – to adapt one’s behavior”61. “The degree of precision required of the “law” in this
regard will depend on the subject in question. »62

At the national level, the National Commission wishes to recall in this respect the requirement of the Constitutional Court
according to which "in the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result

60 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

61 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para. 66;

CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

62 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

127

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT of the law, including the purposes, conditions and terms under which less essential elements
may be governed by regulations and orders issued by the Grand Duke. »63

The Council of State also regularly recalls in its opinions that “(…) access to external files and the
communication of computer data to third parties constitutes an interference with privacy and therefore, in
under Article 11(3) of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. In this case, the main
of the normative framework must appear in the law.

The law must indicate the databases to which a public authority may have access or to which a public authority
public may have data communicated to it, as well as the purposes of this access or communication
(…). »64

If we therefore refer to Article 9 paragraph (2) letters i) and g) of the GDPR as a legal basis, it is necessary to check whether
Luxembourg law provides for “appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms
data subject” as required by the GDPR. In this respect, the CNPD had already pointed out in its
Opinion No. 345/2010 cited above that “the introduction of a generalized system of shared electronic files meets
the criterion laid down in Article 8 paragraph 4 of Directive 95/46/EC65 since the draft law [no. 6196 on
reform of the health care system] provides sufficient appropriate guarantees for the protection of the
privacy and personal data.

However, following the adoption of the aforementioned bill n° 6196, article 60quater of the Social Security Code
refers to a Grand-Ducal regulation in order to specify the guarantees provided for under the DSP. In this regard, he
it will be necessary to ensure rigorous application of the principles of the normative framework mentioned above with regard to
the distinction between what must, in essence, come under the law in the strict sense and what can be the subject of a
normative framework by a regulatory text. The CNPD thus considers that at least the provisions concerning
the retention period of the data at the DSP, currently set out in Articles 4 paragraphs (2) to (5) and 10
paragraph (5) of the draft, the provisions regulating the rights of unemancipated minor holders and holders
adults protected by law (current article 7 of the draft), as well as the limitation of the right of access as provided for by
Article 9 paragraph (2) and the limitation of the right to erasure (Article 6) of the project should be provided for in the law
in the strict sense of the term and more specifically by article 60quater of the Social Security Code, and not in
a regulatory act. It will return to these various points later in this opinion.

  b. The issue of controllership

Article 60ter (4) of the Social Security Code provides that the National Agency for Information Shared in the
domain of health (hereinafter referred to as “the eSanté Agency”) is the data controller
of a personal nature within the meaning of the amended law of 2 August 2002.

63 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of March 20, 2015
64 See for example: Council of State, Opinion n° 6975/5 of June 7, 2016 relating to the bill amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning financial assistance

state for higher education.

65 Its Article 8(4) provides that “subject to appropriate safeguards, Member States may provide, for reasons of important public interest, for

derogations other than those provided for in paragraph 2, either by their national legislation or by decision of the supervisory authority. »

128

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES With specific regard to questions of liability, the “article 29” working group specified that
“any EMR [electronic medical records] system must also ensure that the risk of harm to life
privacy due to the storage of medical data and the provision of such data is adequately compensated
by liability for damage caused, for example by incorrect or unauthorized use of
EMR data. He recommended that Member States wishing to set up a PSD system “carry out
meticulously beforehand in-depth studies of civil and medical law carried out by experts and
impact assessments to clarify emerging accountability issues that may arise in
this context, in particular with regard to the accuracy and completeness of the data recorded in the EMR,
the definition of the degree of knowledge that a health professional treating a patient must have of the EMR of
this or the consequences provided for by the law of liability if access is unavailable for reasons
techniques, etc. »66

However, the CNPD considers that the sole responsibility of the eSanté Agency concerning the processing of personal data
of a personal nature contained in the DSP does not correspond to reality as the system is envisaged. In
Indeed, already in its opinion on draft law n° 6196 reforming the health care system, the CNPD has
considered that it follows from the general scheme of the said bill that liability is exercised jointly.

Thus, any healthcare professional who consults a DSP is required to process the data in a fair and lawful manner and
in compliance with the legal purposes of the processing as provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letters a) and b) of the
GDPR.

Then, the health professional who enters information in a DSP is required to verify the accuracy of
its information and it must make sure to include only “useful and relevant67” data. Article 5,
paragraph (1), letters (c) and (d) of the GDPR specifies that the personal data must be “adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (minimization
data) (and) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date […]”.

For his part, the referring doctor is given a more important role in the functioning of the DSP. His
missions are more numerous than those incumbent on the various isolated players. Article 19bis of the Code
of social security specifies that the referring doctor has the particular mission of "3) regularly monitoring the
content of the shared care file of the insured […]”. Article 8 paragraph (2) paragraph 2 of the draft regulation
Grand-Ducal also provides that the referring doctor is presumed to intervene in the care of the holder
for the duration of the patient-referring doctor relationship and therefore can automatically access the DSP of his patients
and upload data to it.

The Article 29 Working Party also suggests that only one person should be responsible to patients
the correct use of access requests: “The EMR systems are, however, implementation systems.

66 Working Paper (WP 131) on the processing of personal health data contained in electronic medical records (EMR),

adopted February 15, 2007, p. 23.

67 Article 60quater paragraph (2) of the Social Security Code.

129

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD common information which has many data controllers. In these conditions,
a single special institution should be responsible to data subjects for the correct processing of
access requests. Given the foreseeable complexity of a fully operational EMR and the need to
so that patients have confidence in the system, it seems essential that patients whose data is
processed in an EMR know how to contact a responsible partner with whom they can discuss the
possible shortcomings in the system. Special provisions to this effect must be included in any regulations
on EMR systems. »68

Finally, the eSanté Agency has a particular responsibility in terms of system security by being responsible for
in particular a technical and administrative mission to set up the technical architecture and
organization of the shared care file.

The National Commission also notes that the various stakeholders must in any event, each
as far as he is concerned, assume the obligations provided for in article 32 of the GDPR in terms of security
of the treatment.

The notion of “joint liability” introduced by the GDPR should be taken into account in this
context, the National Commission being of the opinion that it follows from the general structure of the law of 17 December
2010 reforming the health care system that the eSanté Agency on the one hand, and healthcare professionals
health on the other hand, jointly participate in the achievement of the purposes and means of the processing
as defined by the legislator. Article 26 paragraph (1) of the GDPR requires that “those responsible
parties to the processing define in a transparent manner their respective obligations for the purposes
to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Regulation, in particular with regard to the exercise of the rights
of the person concerned, and their respective obligations with regard to the communication of the information referred to
in Articles 13 and 14, by agreement between them, unless and to the extent that their respective obligations
are defined by Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the controllers are
submitted. »

However, insofar as the text provides for example in Article 6 paragraph (5) that the rectification of data
inaccurate or incomplete in a DSP may be requested by a holder from the author health professional
of the data and not with the eSanté Agency, the rights of the persons concerned are not exercised
exclusively with the data controller, i.e. with the eSanté Agency. The Commission
national authority refers in this context to its comments under point “VI. Rights of access, writing and opposition
of the owner ".

Based on the above considerations, the CNPD is of the opinion that Article 60ter (4) of the Social Security Code
should be amended to provide for the responsibilities of the various actors.

68 Pages 23 and 24 of working document WP 131.

130

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES c. The issue of sanctions

In its opinion on Bill 6196 reforming the health care system, the CNPD had criticized
the lack of precision as to the responsibility of the various DSP stakeholders and as to the possible
penalties:

“Ultimately, the National Commission observes that the various obligations incumbent on the head of the
treatment are, in the bill, broken down between different stakeholders in the shared care file. However, in case of
non-compliance with the various legal obligations, the text under examination does not settle the question of liability.
Note that the law of August 2, 2002 provides for criminal sanctions against the controller. »69

In France, criminal penalties are provided for in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Health Code
regarding access to shared medical records.70

With regard specifically to criminal sanctions, Article 84 paragraph (1) of the GDPR provides that “States
members determine the system of other penalties applicable in the event of breaches of this Regulation, in
particular for violations that are not subject to the administrative fines provided for in Article 83, and take
all necessary measures to ensure their implementation. These penalties are effective, proportionate
and dissuasive. The relevant recital (149) states in this respect that “Member States should be able to
determine the system of criminal sanctions applicable in the event of violation of this Regulation, including
violation of the national provisions adopted pursuant to and within the limits of this Regulation. These
Criminal sanctions may also allow the seizure of profits made in violation of this Regulation. Nevertheless,
the application of penal sanctions in case of violation of these national provisions and the application of sanctions
administrative procedures should not lead to the breach of the ne bis in idem principle as interpreted by the Court
of righteousness”.

Thus, the CNPD takes this opportunity to reiterate its recommendation issued in the context of its opinion on
to bill no. 7184 creating the CNPD and implementing the GDPR only in order to "not leave
unpunished for unlawful acts perpetrated by natural persons, whether in the context of processing
of data covered by this draft law or draft law no. 7168, the National Commission considers
essential that the bill establishes as a criminal offence:

- the fact of collecting personal data by fraudulent, unfair or illicit means or by

deceptive maneuvers,

- the fact of selling the personal data obtained by the aforementioned means and
- the fact, by a person who collected, on the occasion of registration, classification, transmission or
another form of processing, personal data the disclosure of which would have the effect of bringing

69 Deliberation 345/2010 of November 24, 2010, p.5.
70 Article L1111-18, paragraph 4 of the Public Health Code.

131

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD affecting the consideration of the person concerned or the intimacy of his private life, wearing, without the authorization of the person concerned,
these data to the knowledge of a third party who does not have the right to receive them (i.e. a misappropriation of
purpose). »

Thus, the CNPD considers that, like the French Public Health Code, Luxembourg legislation should
provide for criminal penalties in the event of abuse of access to the DSP.

XI. Creation of the shared care file

As a preliminary point, the CNPD would like to point out that by providing a definition of the term "patient", the commentary
relating to Article 1 point 4 does not agree with the definition provided for in said point 4 concerning the term
"  incumbent  ". Thus, the authors of the project should analyze the relevance of adding the definition of the term
“patient” in article 1 of the draft.

The National Commission also wonders about the categories of data contained in the DSP during its
creation / activation.

According to article 1st point 3° letter b) of the law of 13 December 2017 amending certain provisions of the Code of
social security, paragraph 2 of article 60ter of the Social Security Code is supplemented, among other things, by the
following paragraphs:

“The patient identification reference directory includes the identification data, the characteristics
personal details and family status of the patient as well as surnames, first names, addresses and identification numbers
legal representatives of unemancipated minors and adults protected by law.

[…]

The reference directory for the identification of care providers includes the identification data and the data
in relation to the provider's profession and employment. »

Nevertheless, the National Commission wonders whether the data from these directories will also be
integrated into the DSPs? If so, the categories of data included in such directories should be
added to those already provided for in Appendix 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under number (2).

Article 2 paragraph (1) of the draft then provides that the insured is informed by the Joint Security Center
of the creation of a DSP by the eSanté Agency, without specifying when this information will take place and on
what she wears. The CNPD wonders in what capacity the Common Social Security Center intervenes in the measure

132

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES where the obligation to provide information rests with the data controller, i.e. the Agence eSanté. Is not there any
an inconsistency between paragraph (1) and paragraph (3) of Article 2?

Under Article 2 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the unaffiliated patient benefiting
health care by a healthcare provider established in Luxembourg, can request the opening of a DSP
by means of an application form to be sent to the eSanté Agency. The commentary of the articles specifies to this
that the said form must be accompanied by the "necessary supporting documents". The CNPD considers that
this category of data lacks clarity and precision and it considers it necessary to describe in a more
specify and concise these "necessary supporting documents" in the body of the text. Indeed, with regard to a collection
of data and with regard to the principle of proportionality and necessity (principle of minimization of data
provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR), the CNPD is not in a position to assess whether this principle is
respected.

Article 2 paragraph (3) of the draft obliges the eSanté Agency to provide certain information to holders
from the creation of the DSP. However, the list of information to be communicated to the persons concerned has been extended by
with respect to the amended law of August 2, 2002, respectively to European directive 95/46 of October 24, 1995, in
pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR (applicable from 25 May 2018), depending on whether the data has
been collected directly from the data subject or not.

Thus, it is important to specify that alongside the information provided for in Article 2 paragraph (3) of the draft,
the Agency must take into account the lists of mandatory information provided for in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR.
It must, for example, inform the holders of the precise purposes of the DSP, the contact details of the delegate for the
data protection, on the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data,
on the retention period of personal data, as well as on the right to lodge a complaint
with the CNPD. Similarly, it seems useful to inform holders of the precise content of the DSP when it is
activation.

Finally, the explanatory memorandum specifies that "the shared care file does not replace the individual file
of the patient that every healthcare provider must keep. The National Commission considers that this
This clarification should appear in the actual text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. In the event that it is held
account of this suggestion from the CNPD, this clarification could appear in a new paragraph (4) of Article
2 of the project.

XII. Activation of the shared care file and access by the holder

Article 3 paragraph (1) of the draft specifies that to access his DPS, the holder is obliged to activate beforehand
an account on the platform and then connect to the application using the login credentials

133

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT sent to it by the eSanté Agency in accordance with Article 2 paragraph (3) letter c) of the draft. However, the commentary of the articles
indicates that "the holder must himself activate his account on the platform to receive his login details.
connection". Nevertheless, when activating his account on the platform, the holder should in principle already
have their login credentials?

Similarly, it is not clear from the text what the authors of the project mean by “platform”. It's not
that if we read the definition of the notion "Shared care file application" (article 1, point 2 of the draft) that we
understands that this is the intended national electronic health data exchange and sharing platform
in article 60ter of the Social Security Code. For reasons of understanding, the CNPD suggests specifying
in article 3 of the draft that the DSP is accessible to health professionals, as well as to its holder, by means of
electronically from a website.

Moreover, reading Article 3 paragraph (3) of the draft, one has the impression that in the absence of activation in the
30 days following the sending of the information referred to in Article 2 paragraph (3), the DSP may exclusively be
consulted and fed by health professionals, and no longer by its owner. Commentary on articles
specifies however that the holder may, even after the expiry of this period, access his DSP by proceeding to his
activation and configuration of his account on the platform.

The commentary to the articles states in this same context that in order to “avoid the creation of files
of shared care that cannot be used by healthcare professionals due to lack of active creation of an account
by the holders, it is planned to establish a so-called "blank" period beyond which, in the absence of activation
of the account by its holder, the file automatically becomes functional for professionals
health. »

However, even without account activation by a holder on the platform, the CNPD was able to understand
that under Article 8 paragraph (2) of the draft, a healthcare professional may only access or
feed a DSP of a holder within the framework of documented care, with the exception of the doctor
referent who can access it at any time. Or does the fact that the DSP "automatically becomes
functional for health professionals" implies that the latter will be able, outside the framework
support, according to the default authorization access matrix, consult and supply the DSP
of a person who for one reason or another could not have learned of the creation of
its DSP?

The CNPD is therefore of the opinion that the authors of the project should at least provide that the holder who will not yet have
activated his DSP will receive a second piece of information the first time a healthcare professional accesses his DSP.
It also refers in this context to its observations made under point “VIII. Access and write rights
health professionals”.

134

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES XIII. Closing and Deleting the Shared Care Record

Article 4 of the draft grants the holder the possibility of closing his DSP at any time, either via the DSP application,
or by request to be sent to the eSanté Agency.

The CNPD refers to its comments under point “I. Preliminary remarks” regarding the integration
provisions concerning the retention period of data at the DSP in a law, i.e. in article
60quater of the Social Security Code and not in a regulatory act.

Like article L.1111-18 of the French Public Health Code, DSP data is deleted ten
years after its closure by the holder. During this time and according to the commentary of the articles, the data
paid to the DSP become inaccessible to the holder, as well as to healthcare professionals. “However, in order to
subsequently allow not only the holder to exercise his right of access to his data through the Agency and
the traceability of past actions but also in order to give him the possibility of reopening his file without loss
detrimental to his proper care with regard to the purpose of the shared care file, it is planned to
keep the data for a period of ten years from the date of closure. »71

The CNPD nevertheless considers that an intermediate data archiving period of ten years appears to be
exceeding that necessary with regard to the purposes of exercising the right of access and a possible reopening of the DSP.
Indeed, the DSP is not intended to replace the patient records kept by doctors, establishments
hospitals and other healthcare professionals.

Moreover, if we refer to the opinion of practitioners, that is to say health professionals and in particular the opinion
of the Association of Physicians and Dentists (hereinafter: “the AMMD”), this retention period does not
would not correspond to the reality of the means and usefulness of the profession, whereas they consider that a professional
of health would not be able to consult the data over a period of ten years. The AMMD insists on the
that the purpose of sharing and exchanging data is not diverted into a purpose of storage or
for archiving the health data contained in the DSP. Following the adage “too much information kills
information”, she is of the opinion that a “retention period of 5 years or more will only saturate the DSP with
useless or even obsolete documents thus making it laborious for doctors and others to consult the DSP
health providers. »72

Based on the above considerations, the CNPD estimates that a data retention period of five years
following the closure of a DSP complies with the principle of retention limitation provided for in Article 5 paragraph
(1) letter e) of the GDPR, according to which personal data must only be “stored under
a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed. »

71 Commentary on article 4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
72 AMMD Opinion of July 11, 2017 on the DSP and the retention period of the documents attached thereto.

135

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The CNPD also refers to its observations under point X "Time limit for entering data in the care file
shared” concerning the assessment of the retention period of data in the DSP outside the context
of a closure by the holder.

In addition, paragraph (3) of Article 4 of the draft states that “DSP data shall be deleted”.
ten years after the closure of the DSP if it is not reopened within this period. The CNPD nevertheless considers that
not only should the data be removed from the DSP, but the DSP itself should be removed
fully.

the creation of a

The CNPD also shares the position of the CNIL expressed in its opinion on the draft decree in
Council of State authorizing
processing of personal data referred to as
“shared medical file”73 in that it recommends that in the event of the closure of a DMP “its holder
be informed that the data it contains will no longer be accessible. Such information appears
all the more relevant when the DMP contains specific data such as the advance directives of the
incumbent. In this case, the holder could, for example, be invited to use one of the other methods of
deposit provided for advance directives”. In the context of this project, this recommendation is also valid
with regard to the wishes of the holder in terms of organ donation within the meaning of Article 6 paragraph (2) letter
b) of the project.

Finally, the CNPD considers it necessary to clarify in the draft what are the procedures for exercising
specific access rights to the DSP of a deceased person and whether, where applicable, these accesses
will be exercised in accordance with article 19 of the law of July 24, 2014 relating to the rights and obligations
of the patient.

XIV. Access to the care file shared by healthcare professionals

Article 5 of the draft regulates access to the DSP by health professionals. It emerges from his
paragraph (1) that in order to access the DSP of his patients, the healthcare professional must first create a
account on the platform. This account will only be created by the eSanté Agency upon explicit request, either from a
individual health professional or a health community. A healthcare professional therefore has the
possibility of not making such a request and refusing to use the DSP? The CNPD therefore notes that there will be
an “opt-out” system for patients, while an “opt-in” system for healthcare professionals
apply to.

It should also be noted that the authors of the project do not define the notion of “health community”. The comment
of article 9 of the draft is content to explain that these are, for example, hospitals, laboratories,
help and care centers, etc.

73 Deliberation no. 2016-258 of July 21, 2016 of the National Commission for Computing and Freedoms providing an opinion on a draft decree in the Council of State

authorizing the creation of a processing of personal data called "shared medical file" (request for opinion no 16017107).

136

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES XV. Rights of access, writing and opposition of the holder

Article 6 of the project regulates the rights of access, writing and opposition of the holder. For what is more
particularly of paragraph (3), the CNPD has the impression that letter b) is in contradiction with the letter
d) insofar as first the right is granted to the holder to make certain specific data inaccessible
to health professionals, “with the exception of his referring doctor and professionals of an emergency service
of a hospital establishment", while he is also granted the possibility of refusing "professionals to
health of an emergency department of a hospital establishment access to data at a “restricted” level or in their
refusing access to his shared care record”. This last hypothesis appears in itself contradictory
compared to his commentary on the articles which states that "masking can be applied to any professional
of health (private level) or simply towards some of them (restricted level), provided, in the latter
case, whether it is not the referring doctor or, except for extensive masking, a health professional from a service
hospital emergency. »

The European “Article 29” working group has clarified in this context that even if a DSP system
does not only have consent as its legal basis, "the patient's own determination of
when and how its data is used should constitute a major guarantee.”74 Self-determination
therefore plays a central role at the level of three successive stages: during the creation of the
DSP, when entering data in the DSP, as well as during consultation of the DSP by professionals
health.

Furthermore, it is implicit in article 6 of the draft that the holder may either directly oppose the
prior to taking charge of the uploading of data in its DSP, or making it inaccessible by the
masking specific data from healthcare professionals. Conversely, the holder does not have the right to
subsequently request the deletion of data from its DSP that it considers particularly sensitive. Is it that
shouldn't the holder's control over his health data include this possibility of being able to delete (and
not only hide) a health document, especially since the attending physician will always have access to this
document that will be in his patient file?

With regard to a limitation of the rights of data subjects, such as in particular the right to
erasure (“right to be forgotten”), Article 23 paragraph (1) of the GDPR provides that Union law or the right
of the Member State to which the controller or processor is subject may, by means of
legislative measures, limit, among other things, the scope of the right to erasure provided for in Article 16 of the GDPR. Such a
limitation must respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and must constitute a necessary measure
and proportionate in a democratic society to guarantee one of the ten grounds provided for therein. A legislative measure
limitation must also contain certain specific provisions listed in Article 23 paragraph (2) of the
GDPR.

74 Working Paper (WP 131) on the processing of personal health data contained in electronic medical records (EMR),

adopted February 15, 2007, p. 15

137

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Thus, as Article 6 of the draft under examination implicitly limits the right to erasure of DSP holders,
this limitation must be provided for by law in the strict sense of the term and comply with the above requirements
provided for in Article 23 of the GDPR.

As regards precisely the option for the holder to make inaccessible "certain specific data
health professionals […]”, the CNPD considers that this possibility does not correspond to the reality of the system
as it is designed and she wonders in particular how concretely the eSanté Agency as responsible
processing intends to grant such requests. Indeed, the DSP contains only a few individual data
or structured, but in reality and above all consists of scanned documents, each document containing a
multitude of information or health data relating to a patient.

THE CNPD is therefore wondering how it can be guaranteed that a holder can make inaccessible
“certain specific data” (for example data relating to a voluntary termination of pregnancy)
contained in several scanned medical documents. Unless you make all of the documents inaccessible,
it is of the opinion that it will be practically impossible to “hide” or isolate certain specific data
in all documents containing this specific data.

It should therefore be noted that the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not reflect reality, so that the
provisions in question, although fundamental in terms of data protection and privacy, risk
not be able to be applied in practice.

Paragraph (5) of Article 6 finally provides that the rectification of inaccurate or incomplete data in
its DSP can be requested by the holder from the health professional author of the data. However, article 16 of the
GDPR provides that the "data subject has the right to obtain from the controller, as soon as possible
deadlines, the rectification of personal data concerning him which are inaccurate. » Pursuant to
GDPR and the Social Security Code, the request for rectification of the data should be addressed by the
holder to the eSanté Agency in its capacity as data controller.

In this respect, reference is again made to the observations made in point "I.c" of this opinion relating to the question of the person responsible
of the processing of the DSP, respectively a joint responsibility of the eSanté Agency and the healthcare professionals.

XIV. Non-emancipated minor holders and adult holders protected by law

Article 7 of the draft regulates the rights of non-emancipated minor holders and adult holders protected by
the law. As a preliminary point, as regards the form, the CNPD would like to point out that Article 7 derogates from the provisions of the
Civil Code. Indeed, while Article 7 paragraph (1) paragraph 2 of the draft grants a right of consultation to the DSP
to minors aged 16 and over (or under 16 if requested by their representative(s)

138

5ANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES), Article 488 of the Civil Code provides that majority is set at eighteen years of age and that it is only at
this age that a person is capable of all acts of civil life. As regards adults protected by
the law, specific procedures are provided for in articles 491 to 515 of the Civil Code.

However, by virtue of the principle of the hierarchy of norms, a regulatory act cannot derogate from a law. The CNPD
therefore considers it necessary to include the provisions in question in a law.

That said, the National Commission would like to make the following substantive observations. Recital (58)
of the GDPR specifies that children deserve specific protection and thus "any information and communication,
where the processing concerns them, should be written in clear and simple terms that the child can easily
to understand. »

According to Article 12 paragraph (1) of the GDPR, the controller must take appropriate measures
to provide any information or carry out any communication under Articles 13 to 22 and 34 of the GDPR and
this in a "concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible manner, in clear and simple terms,
in particular for any information intended specifically for a child. »

Article 7, paragraph (2) of the draft under examination provides that the information provided for in Article 2 paragraph
(3) of the project are, in addition to being addressed to the legal representatives of the unemancipated minor holder, also
transmitted to the minor aged 16 or over and, in the event of a request from his legal representative(s), to the
minor under the age of 16. Thus, the CNPD is wondering whether information sheets should not be provided
specifically designated to the minors in question in accordance with the GDPR.

In addition, article 7 paragraph (1) subparagraph 3 of the draft grants the possibility to the unemancipated minor holder
to oppose the transfer of data related to a voluntary termination of pregnancy to their DSP. However, the CNPD
wonders why the authors chose to limit the project to this specific case? She suggests using the
broader formulation of the commentary to the articles providing that the said minor may "in cases legally
planned » ask the healthcare professional not to enter data into his DSP in order to keep it
confidential to its legal representative(s).

Finally, in order to respect the informational self-determination of minors who have become adults, the CNPD asks
that the deactivation of the personal connection identifiers of the legal representatives to the DSP of the minor who has become
major occurs automatically.

XVII. Access and writing rights for healthcare professionals

The access and writing rights of healthcare professionals are provided for in article 8 of the draft.

139

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Its paragraph (1) refers to the access matrix set out in Annex 1 of the draft with regard to “the rights
maximum access and writing per category of data for healthcare professionals involved in the management
responsibility of the holder”.

According to Article 25 paragraph (2) of the GDPR, the controller must “implement the measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only personal data
which are necessary with regard to each specific purpose of the processing are processed" (principle of "Privacy by
Default"). The said article specifies that “in particular, these measures guarantee that, by default, personal data
personnel are not made accessible to an indeterminate number of natural persons without the intervention of
the natural person concerned. » A matrix of default accesses, such as the one provided in appendix 1 of the project
under examination, must in principle be considered to be contrary to the said principle of "Privacy by Design".

Paragraph 2 of paragraph (1) of Article 8 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifies that the said classification, as well as
that “possible access and writing restrictions to certain types of data within the same category
of data is done in accordance with the procedures determined by the Agency. However, the National Commission is
of the opinion that the text of the Grand-Ducal regulation must specify what these procedures are.

Paragraph (2) of Article 8 of the draft provides specific modalities for the “classification of a type of
data within a data category”. Referring to his comments under “VI. Access rights,
of writing and opposition of the holder” and taking into account the fact that the DSP mainly contains documents
scans which do not present any granularity, the CNPD reminds that the text of the project does not correspond to reality
the configuration of the systems put in place. She wonders in particular how the eSanté Agency as a
that the controller will control the situation in which several categories of data are found
in the same scanned document and that a healthcare professional only has the right to access one category,
but not to another?

According to Article 8 paragraph (2) of the draft, only health professionals involved in the treatment
responsibility of the holder can access it according to the default access matrix appended to the project under examination. The goal
of the DSP is precisely to bring together for the purpose of sharing the health data of a patient necessary for him
ensure better follow-up by the health professionals caring for him. It thus follows implicitly from this
article that the health data contained in the DSP cannot be used for other purposes, excluding
thus access to the DSP by “medical practitioners who act as experts on behalf of third parties:
for example for private insurance companies, in litigation, for the granting of retirement assistance, for
the data subject's employers, etc. »75

Already in its aforementioned opinion No. 345/2010, the CNPD had considered, with a view to respecting the purposes for
which the DSP is established, that the list of recipients should not be extended in the future to other categories

75 Working Paper (WP 131) on the processing of personal health data contained in electronic medical records (EMR),

adopted February 15, 2007, p. 18.

140

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES of people. It had referred in this context to article L1111-18 of the French Code of Public Health
which provides the following: "access to the shared medical file is notably prohibited when concluding a
contract relating to additional protection in terms of coverage of health costs and on the occasion of the
conclusion of any other contract requiring the assessment of the state of health of one of the parties. Access to this folder
may also be required neither prior to the conclusion of a contract nor at any time or on any occasion
of its application. »

Thus, the CNPD recalls that it is essential to include such a provision in a law, if not in the text of the draft.
of Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion.

Paragraph (2) of article 8 of the draft, by limiting access to the DSP only to health professionals intervening
in taking charge of the holder, moreover appears to be in contradiction with Article 10 paragraph (1) of the draft, in
in the sense that it authorizes any health professional, without distinction if it intervenes in the care of the holder
whether or not to submit any data it holds and which it deems useful and relevant to the DSP “within a reasonable time
after becoming aware of this data or after their first access to the shared care file if this
data is prior to its activation. The CNPD refers in this respect to its comments under the point "X. Deadlines
for adding data to the shared care file”.

Article 8 paragraph (4) of the draft allows the health provider to include information in a DSP that
will be temporarily inaccessible to the holder until a medical consultation with the latter takes place.
As this possibility is in contradiction with the general philosophy of the DSP where the control resides
with the holder, the CNPD is of the opinion that this option should be strictly regulated and limited to cases strictly
necessary and proportional.

In its above-mentioned opinion, the Statutory Advisory Commission "ethical and deontological aspects in relation to
data protection and accessibility” considered that the possibility of targeted masking of documents should
be offered to health professionals wishing to consult an announcement of their content, under
condition “to provide as safeguards […] the automatic lifting of the masking after the flow of a
reasonable period (for example six weeks). »

This is precisely what the French legislator has provided, while article R1111-42 of the Public Health Code
provides that "within two weeks of receipt of inaccessible information, and in the absence
of the announcement consultation, the patient is informed by any means, including dematerialized, of an update of
their shared medical file, inviting them to consult a healthcare professional, in particular their attending physician, to
get acquainted with it. If the ad consultation has not taken place one month after the payment of the information
in the patient's shared medical record, it automatically becomes accessible. Thus, the CNPD considers
necessary that the authors specify such a limited period of masking in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

141

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Furthermore, it appears from Article 8 paragraphs (2) and (3) of the draft, as well as from the commentary to the articles, that
unlike health professionals working in a private medical practice, those who work in a
health community or in an emergency department do not need to receive beforehand, during the act or
consultation, the login of the holder, but can directly access it. Of course, the comment
of the articles specifies that a “holder always has the right to oppose access either at the time of admission
either by means of configuration in its DSP”. This difference in treatment is justifiable with regard to the
emergency services, the holder often not being able to provide his identifiers. But what about the difference
of treatment between health professionals practicing in a private medical practice and those who intervene
in a health community? How is "care", which is not defined, is it observed
or documented by a “health community” (which is also not defined by the draft text), given
that the patient does not give his connection identifier to the health authority to show his agreement to
access to its DSP? In other words, how can the patient know that a health community (for example
a laboratory, an aid and care centre, etc.) will access his DSP and that he has the possibility of refusing access
to his DSP, if he is not aware of it or if he is not informed? The text of the project remains silent on this subject, so
that it does not provide for any obligation for a healthcare community to inform the patient to this effect at the time of the
supported.

The CNPD must therefore insist that the Grand-Ducal regulation includes a provision that obliges a community of
healthcare to inform the patient that it intends to access their DSP and that they have the option of refusing access; the community
must be able to demonstrate that this information to the patient has taken place. The CNPD recalls in
In this context, its recommendation already formulated in 2010 that the use of a “health card” of the “carte vitale” type
French” or German “elektronische Gesundheitskarte” would facilitate this process, just as it would facilitate
the use of other processes / functionalities within the framework of the DSP system (such as, for example, the use of
an impractical or user-friendly login ID).

The CNPD also wonders whether a patient does not object when admitted to a hospital
access to its DSP, by default will all those who work in this establishment have access to its
PSD?

As such, the commentary to the articles responds by specifying that in the event of a stay in an establishment, only
health professionals involved in the care of the holder can access his care file
shared and not all staff members of this establishment. However, the CNPD considers that
this precision must appear in the text of the draft under opinion.

The commentary on the articles specifies in this context that it “is up to the healthcare communities to put in place
appropriate measures to ensure compliance with this matrix. » To check the compliance of these measures,
as well as to allow DSP holders to have a right of inspection on who has accessed their DSP, the CNPD considers

142

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES it is necessary that the text provide for the obligation for health authorities to set up tracking systems
access that is nominative and individual. Thus, she recommends that authors add at the end of the paragraph
(1) of Article 9 of the draft the following words: “irrespective of whether this person is a professional of
individual health or is part of a health community”.

Finally, the National Commission wonders how the "agreement" of the holder which allows the introducer of a
given to limit its access under Article 8 paragraph (5) of the draft will manifest itself concretely. Is it
Is it a written consent of the holder, recorded in the DSP, or a simple oral consent? Section 7
of the GDPR provides in this context that if processing is based on the consent of the data subject,
the data controller must be able to "prove that the data subject has given his
consent to the processing of personal data concerning him. » Pursuant to this provision
and unless later modification of the text concerning a possible joint responsibility as recommended by
the CNPD, the eSanté Agency should be able to prove that the holder has consented to the introducer of a
data may limit its access as provided for in said Article 8, paragraph (5) of the draft.

XVIII. Traceability of access and actions

Article 9 of the draft does not specify for how long the logging data will be
retained from their recording. It is only by reading the comments of the articles that we understand
that the retention period of the traces is the same as that of the DSP data. However, the CNPD considers
necessary to specify the retention period of logging data in the body of the project text
under review.

Paragraph (2) of the article in question provides that the holder, his legal representatives and the referring doctor may
consult all traces of access and actions relating to DSP data, except those concerning
data that has been made inaccessible to them in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. In this
which concerns a limitation of the rights of data subjects, such as in particular the right of access, Article 23
paragraph (1) of the GDPR provides that Union law or the law of the Member State to which the controller
processing or the processor is subject may, by means of legislative measures, limit, inter alia, the scope
the right of access provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR. Such limitation must respect the essence of the freedoms and rights
fundamental principles and must constitute a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to
guarantee one of the ten reasons provided for therein. A restrictive legislative measure must also contain certain provisions
listed in Article 23 paragraph (2) of the GDPR.

Thus, as Article 9 paragraph (2) of the draft under examination limits the right of access of holders, representatives
lawyers and referring physicians, this limitation must be provided for by law in the strict sense of the term and respect the
aforementioned requirements under Article 23 of the GDPR.

143

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD XIX. Deadline for transferring data to the shared care file

Article 10 paragraph (3) provides that certain useful and relevant data must be provided to the DSP no later than
later "fifteen days after the end of the treatment by the health professional who is the author [...]" The
National Commission considers that it would be useful to define the notion of “care”, respectively “end of
the management of ".

Then, in accordance with Article 8 paragraph (2) of the draft, the health professional, apart from the doctor
referent, will in principle no longer be able to access the DSP of one of his patients beyond the period of 15 days after
holder support. However, Article 10 paragraph (1) of the draft is in contradiction with Article
8 paragraph (2) of the draft while it provides that the "health professional holding data that he
considers useful and relevant within the meaning of Article 60quater, paragraph 2 of the Social Security Code,
add it to the shared care file within a reasonable time after becoming aware of
of this data or after its first access to the shared care file if this data is prior to its
activation. »

Will the healthcare professional therefore be able to access the DSP apart from taking charge of the holder,
whereas in principle he will not have automatic access to the DSP without the login of the holder? Why do not
is it not specified that after the expiry of a period of 15 days following his first access to the DSP, the professional
will have to add the data it deems useful and relevant and which predates the activation of the DSP?

With regard to the retention of data at the DSP, apart from the hypothesis of an active closure
by its holder, Article 10 paragraph (5) of the draft provides for a retention period of ten years from
the entry of data into the DSP, “with the exception of information relating to the personal expression of the
holder which are kept until the holder modifies or deletes them and certain medical data
considered useful and relevant for life by the doctor which are kept until the care file is closed
share. »

With regard to the GDPR, it is necessary and essential to define a data retention period within the
DSP, which is proportionate to the purpose of the DSP. Therefore, it is necessary to define objective criteria
making it possible to justify an adequate retention period, it being understood that the DSP does not replace the file
medical record kept by health professionals "for at least ten years from the date of the end of the
in charge. »76

The explanatory memorandum for the project also specifies that the DSP "is not intended to be exhaustive but exclusively
to group together among the categories of data mentioned in Article 60quater paragraph 2 those which are useful
and relevant to the continuity and coordination of patient care. »

76 According to article 15 paragraph (4) of the law of 24 July 2014 on the rights and obligations of patients.

144

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES If the criterion used is therefore that of continuity and coordination of care, the duration of this coordination is
necessarily variable depending on the nature of the pathology and the treatment envisaged by the professionals
health. However, following the comments of the articles, the authors of the project decided to fix, except exceptions
mentioned above, a single retention period for all categories of data “given the diversity
of data likely to be included in the file and the variability over time of their usefulness and relevance
respective in the course of care […]. The authors add that “taking into account the purpose of exchange and
sharing of important data for better quality and safety in the care pathway, this duration
is set in such a way as to guarantee that all patients, including those who consult less regularly, can
have a minimum of important data in their file. »

However, as mentioned under point “IV. Closing and deleting the shared care file", the professionals
of health and in particular the doctors, represented by the AMMD, consider on the other hand that a retention period
of ten years does not correspond to the reality of the means and the usefulness of the profession, whereas they estimate that a
healthcare professional would not be able to consult the data over such a period. According to the adage
“too much information kills information”, she is of the opinion that a “retention time of 5 years or more will not
than saturating the DSP with useless or even obsolete documents, thus making consultation of the DSP laborious by the
doctors and other health care providers. »77

The Medical College has similar reservations: it is of the opinion that it would be necessary to: “develop a strategy for prioritization
the relevance of the data and their regular review, with a view to deleting or transferring to the background the
irrelevant data” and that “the retention of old data confirmed or invalidated by new
data concerning the same object is of no interest”.78 According to the Medical College, these data should be able to
be removed so as not to clutter the DSP unnecessarily.

The principles of data minimization and retention limitation require that only personal data
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the specific purposes are processed and
kept for a period not exceeding that necessary for the said purposes (Article 5 paragraph
(1) letters c) and e) of the GDPR). Considering that the DSP has as its main purpose the sharing and exchange of
useful and relevant data between health professionals for a better quality of care, which the DSP does not have
as intended to be exhaustive, that it does not replace the records kept by health professionals or
hospitals and that it certainly does not have the purpose of storage or archiving, the CNPD
believes that a retention period of five years from the date the data is entered into the DSP is sufficient
and appropriate with regard to the purposes actually and legally pursued.

As already indicated under point “IV. Closure and deletion of the shared care file", the CNPD considers
necessary to integrate the provisions concerning the retention period of data within the DSP into a
law, i.e. in article 60quater of the Social Security Code, and not in a regulatory act.

77 AMMD Opinion of July 11, 2017 on the DSP and the retention period of the documents attached thereto.
78 Opinion of the Medical College of 29 November 2017 on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination.

145

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Finally, paragraph (5) of Article 10 provides that certain medical data deemed useful and relevant for life
by the doctor are kept until the closure of the DSP. The commentary to the articles lists by way of example
“data relating to allergies or chronic illnesses that may have serious consequences or
significant surgical history such as organ transplants. »

The National Commission does not question the usefulness of keeping such basic health data
"for life" in the DSP. Nevertheless, she wonders if each health professional who has access to the DSP of a
holder can enter such data in the DSP and whether, if necessary, the holder of the DSP will be at least alerted
during such registration?

XX. Security of the national electronic platform

The National Commission recalls that under Article 32 of the GDPR, the controller must implement
implement the appropriate measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk.

It is also of the opinion that the protection of the confidentiality and security of personal data
constitutes a major challenge when processing sensitive data (health data) insofar as
disclosing this data could cause serious harm to patients. These risks increase with
increased use of new technologies by health professionals who could use devices
devices (tablets) to access their account and their patients' DSPs.

According to article 11 paragraph (1) of the draft, the eSanté Agency undertakes to implement a management system
of information security certified in accordance with international standard ISO/IEC 27001. Nevertheless, the CNPD
suggests specifying in the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation the minimum scope over which the said
ISO certification will have to be worn. The scope should cover all the systems, processes and elements
organizations involved directly or indirectly on the platform and clearly reflecting, where applicable, the
situation of joint liability.

Article 11 paragraph (1) letter e) of the draft envisages the “implementation of annual security audits”. The article
32 paragraph (1) GDPR contains in this context a non-exhaustive list of technical measures and
organizational measures that the data controller and the processor must implement in order to guarantee
a level of security appropriate to the risk. One of these measures is precisely the establishment of a “procedure
aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures
to ensure the security of the processing” (Article 32 paragraph (1) letter d) of the GDPR). If the authors of the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion intend to target this provision of the GDPR, they should specify the details
in the body of the text. Among other things, the CNPD considers it necessary to define whether these audits will be carried out by
independent auditors or by auditors external to the eSanté Agency. Similarly, the project remains silent on the

146

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES specific scope of these audits, while an approach regularly adopted in this area is manifested by a
tri-annual audit plan validated by the Board of Directors so that after 3 years, all procedures have
been audited.

Paragraph (2) of the said article obliges providers and publishers of a connected computer program
the national platform to implement appropriate security measures with regard to its type, its
size, its processes or its activities. However, the CNPD is of the opinion that the size of the provider or publisher is not
should not be considered as a relevant criterion in this context. Indeed, Article 32 paragraph (1) of the GDPR
specifies that the technical and organizational measures to be put in place must be adapted to "the state of
knowledge, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing
as well as risks, of varying likelihood and severity, to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical […]. » For example, the risk may be particularly high if a service provider has access to a large
number of DSPs.

Moreover, even if details regarding the concept of a “provider” are found in the commentary to the
articles (“Given the diversity of providers likely to connect to the platform or use one of its
applications, namely a hospital establishment, a pharmacy, a medical analysis laboratory and
clinical biology, an association of doctors or an individual practice and, for the data mentioned in article
60quater, paragraph 2 of the Social Security Code, a support and care network, a semi-stationary centre,
an aid and care establishment, an intermittent stay establishment […]”), the CNPD recommends that
authors to add a definition of the said term to article 1 of the draft.

With particular regard to the publishers of a computer program connected to the national platform,
one could interpret Article 11 (2) of the draft in such a way that the latter could connect directly
to the platform. However, the CNPD wishes to emphasize that it is not acceptable for IT players to have a
direct access to the DSP, this being absolutely not the practice in this area.

Finally, the National Commission wonders at what intervals the eSanté Agency intends to implement the
staff awareness measures as provided for in Article 11 paragraph (2) letter e) of the draft.

XXI. Technical procedures for uploading data to the shared care file and interoperability

According to article 12 paragraph (2) subparagraph 4 letter a) of the draft, the tests mentioned in paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 letter
a) of the said article will be carried out not by the Agence eSanté, but by an organization or a company expert in
interoperability of health systems. The CNPD mainly asks itself the question of who will have to bear the costs relating to
the work of this expert, and above all who will appoint this expert and on the basis of what criteria the skills of this
last will be checked?

147

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Paragraph (2) of Article 12 of the draft continues in the sense that a certificate of compliance will be issued by
the eSanté Agency based on the results of the tests carried out by the aforementioned expert. However, on what criteria does the Agency
Will eSanté base its decision and how will it decide concretely? Do representatives
not part of the eSanté Agency will be involved to guarantee the independence of the decision? The CNPD
therefore recommends that the authors indicate in the draft that the eSanté Agency must put in place a regulation
of internal order setting the procedures for issuing, blocking and withdrawing certificates in order to guarantee
fair treatment of certificates for all players.

Finally, in article 12 paragraph (2) subparagraph 6 of the draft it is indicated that the certification of the results of the tests remains
valid as long as no modification affects it. However, this approach does not correspond to good practice in
matter, because even without changes in the systems, new vulnerabilities in applications
existing ones could very well be discovered and subsequently potentially exploited. Thus the CNPD considers
a “procedure to regularly test, analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of technical and
organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing” as recommended in Article 32 (1) (d) of the GDPR
should be implemented – and this regardless of whether changes have taken place.

XXII. Cross-border cooperation and exchanges

The CNPD notes that the transfer of health data by the eSanté Agency to the “online health” contact point
of another State is subject to the prior consent of the holder. Taking into consideration that this
transfer will certainly include special categories of personal data, including in particular
health data, the CNPD would like to point out that under Article 9 paragraph (1) letter a) of the GDPR, this
Consent by the data subject must be “explicit”.

Finally, it is important to mention that in addition to the information provided for in Article 13 paragraph (1) of the GDPR,
the Agency must inform patients of the existence of the right to withdraw their consent at any time, without
infringement of the lawfulness of processing based on consent given before its withdrawal (Article 13 paragraph
(2) letter c) GDPR).

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 5, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

148

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Additional notice from the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted in execution of the law of 5 July 2016 on
reorganization of the State Intelligence Service

Deliberation n° 244/2018 of April 12, 2018

In accordance with Article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of
persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as "the amended law of 2 August
2002"), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as "the National Commission"
or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all projects or proposals for
law creating a treatment as well as on all the regulatory or administrative measures issued
based on this law”.

By letter dated June 8, 2016, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to comment on the subject
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the procedures for processing personal data by the
State Intelligence Service, regulations to be adopted pursuant to the subsequent law of 5 July 2016 on
reorganization of the State Intelligence Service79.

Subsequently, the CNPD issued its opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted in execution of the future
law on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken into
execution of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the methods of processing of personal data by
the National Security Authority.80

By letter dated December 18, 2018, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to decide
regarding the amendments made to the aforementioned draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

The National Commission also recalls that a first draft of a Grand-Ducal regulation establishing and
laying down the operating procedures for a file relating to the processing of personal data by the
State Intelligence Service had already been submitted to the CNPD for an opinion in 2013 and gave rise to the opinion of
the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken into
execution of article 4 of the amended law of 15 June 2004 on the organization of the Intelligence Service of
the State and the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted pursuant to article 23 of the law of 15 June 2004 relating
part classification and security clearances.81

The National Commission reviews the amendments which give rise to comments.

79 In a letter of the same June 8, 2016, the Prime Minister had also invited the National Commission to comment on the draft regulation
Grand-Ducal relating to the methods of processing personal data by the National Security Authority, regulation to be adopted in execution of the law of
June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of parts and security clearances.

80 Deliberation no. 639/2016 of July 13, 2016
  https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2016/SRE.html
81 Deliberation no. 274/2013 of June 28, 2013
  https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2013/sre.html

149

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Amendment 1 concerning initial article 3 (new article 1)

The new article 1 is entitled “Categories of personal data processed by the Intelligence Service
of the State” and lists the different categories of data which “may be subject to processing”.

As a reminder, Article 1 paragraph 1. of the first draft regulation submitted to the CNPD for an opinion in
201382 more specifically provided for the creation of a database in the following terms:
“The purpose of this Grand-Ducal Regulation is to create a file relating to the processing of personal data
personnel, called "e-RSN" to be used by the State Intelligence Service, and to set the terms and conditions. »

The initial version of this draft by-law dating from 2016 applied to an “active party” and an “active party”.
archives”.

The draft regulation in its amended version no longer speaks at all of a data file or the processing of
data in particular, but in general of the data processing that can be carried out by the Service
State Intelligence (SRE).

The wording chosen seems closer to the letter of article 10 paragraph (1) of the law of July 5, 2016
on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service which generally provides that the processing of
personal data processed by the SRE is subject to a Grand-Ducal regulation.

However, this very general formulation can lead to confusion if it is related to the list of categories
data of the draft regulation under notice. Indeed, the SRE processes many other data than those listed in
new article 1.

This concerns in particular data obtained by the various means and research measures provided for in Articles
5 to 8 of the law of July 5, 2016 reorganizing the State Intelligence Service. We can cite as
for example sound recordings obtained through the measures provided for in Article 7 paragraph (1) of
the said law of July 5, 2016 or the listings of electronic communications traffic data obtained by the
through the measures provided for in Article 7 paragraph (2) of this law.

If the regulation is supposed to cover the data obtained by the different research means and measures foreseen
in articles 5 to 8 of the law of 5 July 2016, it would also be necessary to provide details as to the
data processed in this context.

The new article 1 does not contain information relating to the persons concerned. A fortiori, he does not distinguish
not between different types of data subjects.

82 draft grand-ducal regulation based on article 4 paragraph (1) of the law of 15 June 2004 on the organization of the State Intelligence Service,

similar to article 10 paragraph (1) of the law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service.

150

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES On this subject, mention should be made of article 6 of bill 7168 relating to the protection of natural persons at
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security
and amending certain laws, article which provides the following:

"  Art. 6. Distinction between different categories of data subjects
The controller shall, where appropriate and as far as possible, make a clear distinction between
personal data of different categories of data subjects, such as:
(a) persons in respect of whom there are substantial grounds for believing that they have committed or are about to

point of committing a criminal offence;

(b) persons convicted of a criminal offence;
(c) victims of a criminal offense or persons in respect of whom certain facts lead one to believe

that they could be victims of a criminal offence, and

d) third parties to a criminal offence, such as persons who may be called upon to testify during investigations into
connection with subsequent criminal offenses or criminal proceedings, persons who can provide
information about criminal offences, or contacts or associates of any of the persons referred to
in points a) and b). »

It follows from that article that a distinction must be made, for example, between the data of persons who are likely
to commit an offense and those of family members83, neighbors etc. such people. It would be indicated
that the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation reflects this distinction between different categories of persons
concerned while the ERS falls within the scope of the bill, which will apply in particular
to the processing of data “by the State Intelligence Service in the performance of its planned missions
in article 3 of the law of 5 July 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service” (article 2
paragraph (2) letter a)).

Letter a) of the new article 1 provides that "personal data resulting from
access to the processing of personal data […] provided for in Article 10, paragraph 2, of the law of
July 5, 2016 reorganizing the State Intelligence Service”. Specifically, this is data
a series of state databases that the SRE can access. The National Commission wonders
whether it would not be necessary, like other laws, to specify which data the SRE can access. In
Indeed, the data from the state databases to which the members of the public prosecutor's office and the administration
judicial as well as members of the Grand Ducal Police have access are determined in detail by the regulations
of 22 July 2008 implementing article 48-24 of the Code of Criminal Investigation and
Article 34-1 of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the Police and the General Police Inspectorate.

Letter c) of the new Article 1 provides that the “personal data referred to in Article
6, paragraph 1 of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data, with the exception of those relating to trade union membership and sex life”.

83 The example of family members is given in the commentary to the new article 1 in the context of health data.

151

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The processing of data referred to in said Article 6 paragraph 1 is “processing which reveals the racial origin
or ethnicity, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership,
as well as the processing of data relating to health and sex life, including the processing of data
genetics”.

The aforementioned article 6 subjects the processing of said categories of data (known as sensitive data) to
much stricter conditions than the processing of other categories of data.

However, the amended law of August 2, 2002 is intended to be repealed very soon84.

This law and more particularly its article 6 will be replaced by the following texts:

- Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) and its article 9 with regard to more
specifically sensitive data.

  This regulation will constitute in a way the common law of the legislation relating to data protection,
but it will not apply to the processing of data carried out by the Intelligence Service of which it is
question in the draft by-law under notice.

- The future law relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security and amending certain laws
(bill no. 7168). This law will apply in particular to the processing of data “by the Service de
intelligence of the State in the performance of its missions provided for in article 3 of the law of July 5, 2016 on
reorganization of the State Intelligence Service” (Article 2 paragraph (2) letter a)). Article 10 of the project
law governs the processing of sensitive data, more specifically "the processing of personal data
reveal racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or
trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of identifying
a natural person uniquely, data concerning health or data concerning life
sexuality or sexual orientation of a natural person”.

It would therefore be more appropriate to refer to article 10 of bill no. 7168 rather than to article 6 of the law.
amended on 2 August 2002 (where applicable with transitional provisions if the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
under opinion was to be adopted before Bill 7168).

Compared to article 6 of the amended law of 2 August 2002, the processing of biometric data for the purposes
uniquely identify a natural person are therefore added. In addition, article 10 of bill n° 7168

84 Article 62 of the draft law establishing the National Commission for Data Protection and the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
the free movement of this data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting the processing regime and the conditions and procedures for the advancement of
State officials and repealing the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
(bill no. 7184).

152

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES mentions “data concerning sex life or sexual orientation” whereas article 6 of the amended law
of August 2, 2002 only mentioned “data relating to sexual life” at all.

Since the amended version of article 3 becoming article 1 now expressly excludes data relating
trade union membership and sex life, processing may be carried out that reveals racial origin
or ethnicity, political opinions, beliefs, religious or philosophical, as well as the processing of
health data, including the processing of genetic data. Regarding these data, the CNPD
has the following remarks:

• With regard to fingerprints, the CNPD considers that they are not to be considered as data
genetic, contrary to what the commentary on the articles suggests. On the other hand, it is "data
biometrics for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person” as referred to in Article 10 of the
Bill No. 7168. If it is necessary to process fingerprints, the clearest and most respectful
principle of necessity would be to simply mention them explicitly in the list of categories
data that can be processed.

• With regard to health data, the CNPD emphasizes that the processing of such data was expressly

excluded in the draft regulation submitted to it for its opinion in 201385.

• The personal data referred to in article 6, paragraph 1 of the amended law of 2 August 2002
also include those whose processing reveals racial or ethnic origin or beliefs
nuns. Admitting that the processing of such data cannot be excluded, it must in particular be ensured
that these data do not become a decisive criterion for triggering research measures.
The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA) considers the following on this subject: “The nature of the
conflicts in question and the fact that some of them attract persons of specific ethnic and/or religious backgrounds
raises additional fundamental rights considerations. Monitoring persons suspected of criminal activity constitutes
a legitimate preventive instrument, but measures that consist of surveillance of a specific group or profiling of
potential suspects based on ethnicity or religion alone create the risk of unacceptable discriminatory treatment,
both under the ECHR and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.”86 Furthermore, the European Commission
against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) recommends that the governments of member states prohibit the
racial profiling, which it defines as “the use by the police, without objective and reasonable justification, of
grounds such as race, colour, language, religion, nationality or national or ethnic origin in
control, surveillance or investigation activities”.87

85 Article 5 paragraph 1. number 7. of the preliminary draft regulation
86 Safeguarding internal security in compliance with fundamental rights law
  FRA contribution
  High-level conference on a renewed EU Internal Security Strategy
  Brussels, September 29, 2014
  http://fra.europa.eu/sites/default/files/fra-2014_conference-contribution-iss.pdf
87 ECRI General Policy Recommendation No. 11: Combating racism and racial discrimination in policing
  Adopted by ECRI on 29 June 2007
  https://www.coe.int/t/dghl/monitoring/ecri/activities/gpr/en/recommendation_n11/f-RPG%2011%20-%20A4.pdf
  As regards the scope of this recommendation, cf. point 22. of its explanatory memorandum:
  “For the purposes of this Recommendation, the term “police” means those officers who exercise (or may exercise by law) the power to use force to enforce
respect for the law and the maintenance of public order in society, normally including the prevention and detection of offences. […] This definition includes the
secret and intelligence services as well as the border police. »

153

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The CNPD suggests the insertion of an explicit mention on this subject in the text of the draft regulation.

Letter d) of the new article 1 provides that "data collected on the basis of cooperation
of the State Intelligence Service with the national and international bodies referred to in Article 9 of the law
of 5 July 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service”.

As the Council of State points out, "a categorization of data cannot be done through a reference
how they were obtained.

The CNPD also considers that the SRE should not, in the context of exchanges with other
national and international bodies, process data going beyond the categories of data that it can
to deal with on a purely internal level and which are listed in letters a) to c) of this new article 1 of the draft
of settlement.

However, if the SRE, in the context of these data exchanges, does not actually process other data
than those listed in letters a) to c) of this article 1, then letter d) of article 1 does not add anything by
report to article 9 of the law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service and is
superfluous.

Amendment 2 concerning initial article 4 (new article 2)

The new Article 2 paragraph (1) relating to the retention period provides in its first paragraph that the
data processed by the SRE “are kept in the files for as long as they are necessary for
the accomplishment of the missions of the SRE”.

The second paragraph of the same article 2 paragraph (1) provides that, “by way of derogation from the preceding paragraph, a period
conservation is applicable to the personal data” listed below and sets different durations
related conservations.

Article 2 paragraph (1) second subparagraph raises the following question:

Is the data falling into one of the categories listed therein only maintained in the files
as long as they are necessary for the accomplishment of the missions of the SRE (first paragraph), but, in
in any case no longer than the periods listed in the second paragraph permit? Or
are they systematically kept - regardless of their necessity - until the expiry of the deadlines
listed in the second paragraph?

88 Opinion of 11 October 2016 relating to the draft regulation under opinion, EC No: 51.685.

154

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Compliance with the principle of necessity as a fundamental principle of data protection only allows the
first of the two interpretations indicated above and the commentary to the articles suggests that such was
also the intention of the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

However, the CNPD considers that the text of Article 2 paragraph (1) second subparagraph should be clearer and
specific about it.

It suggests replacing the first sentence of Article 2 paragraph (1) second subparagraph by the following sentence:
“In any event, the following retention periods must not be exceeded:”

It also suggests inserting Article 2 paragraph (2) between Article 2 paragraph (1) first paragraph and
article 2 paragraph (1) second subparagraph, in order to improve the clarity of the text, so that the new article 2 would have
the following content:

" Art. 2. – Duration of retention of personal data

(1) Personal data processed by the State Intelligence Service, hereinafter referred to as the
"SRE", are kept in the files as long as they are necessary for the accomplishment
ERS missions.

(2) Periodic verification of the need to retain data is carried out in accordance with

item 3.

(3) In any event, the following retention periods must not be exceeded:

  (a) for data relating to [...]
  (b) […]
  vs) […]
  d) […]”

Amendment 3 concerning the introduction of a new Article 3

Article 3 paragraph (1) provides that "the agents of the SRE in charge of an operation check at the latest all
the five years since the entry of the personal data or since the last periodic verification of the
personal data relating to the person. »

155

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT The CNPD welcomes the fact that the maximum time interval between two periodic checks has
reduced from 10 years to 5 years (i.e. the period provided for in the 2013 draft regulations).

She further welcomes the introduction of mandatory data checks by the Data Protection Officer
which are provided for in paragraph (2) of Article. She considers, however, that the notion of survey is vague. Whether
the checks are done only once a year and by sampling, one can wonder what the percentage of
data actually checked and whether this percentage will be high enough to make a significant contribution
compliance with data protection rules.

With regard to the term “data protection officer”, the CNPD suggests adapting from now on
terminology to that of the General Data Protection Regulation and Bill No. 716889 which use
the terms “data protection officer”.

Amendment 8 concerning the initial article 9 (new article 6)

The new article 6 governs logging data.

In its two previous opinions, the CNPD had requested that it also be provided that communications from
given to other national or foreign authorities are logged.

Having regard to the new version of article 6 (generally referring to any processing of data without mentioning
specific in particular of the active part and the archive part), it can be considered, if necessary, that such
logging must take place in any event under the said article. Nevertheless, the CNPD suggests providing
an express mention on this subject in the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

It also considers it necessary to expressly provide for log files which
will relate to access to the SRE, via a computer system, to the processing of personal data
staff of different administrations pursuant to Article 10 paragraph (2) of the law of
July 5, 2016. It should be recalled in this regard that there are similar provisions prescribing data files
logging for access to various state databases by magistrates (article 48-24
paragraph (4), letter (b), of the Code of Criminal Procedure) or by members of the Grand Ducal Police
(article 34-1, 4th paragraph, letter (b) of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the Police and the General Inspectorate of the
police).

The CNPD has no other comments to make regarding the amendments submitted for opinion and
refers for the remainder to its opinion of July 13, 2016.

89cf. articles 32 to 34 in particular of bill n° 7168.

156

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Finally, it once again takes the liberty of pointing out that its opinion of July 13, 2016 (deliberation no. 639/2016) on
the draft regulation under review also related to a draft grand-ducal regulation relating to the terms and conditions of
processing of personal data by the National Security Authority. She is unaware of the
follow-up to this draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 12, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

157

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Additional opinion of the National Data Protection Commission relating to
government amendments to bill no. 7184 creating the
National Commission for Data Protection and Regulation Implementation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
the free movement of this data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting
the salary system and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants
of the State and repealing the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data.

Deliberation n° 279/2018 of April 25, 2018

In accordance with Article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "the amended law
of August 2, 2002"), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter: "the CNPD" or
“National Commission”) has the particular mission of advising “all bills or proposals for legislation relating to
creation of a treatment as well as on all the regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis
of this law”.

In a dispatch dated March 8, 2018, the CNPD received a series of government amendments to the draft
of Law No. 7184 relating to the creation of the National Commission for Data Protection and the
implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and freedom
circulation of this data, amending the law of March 25, 2015 setting the processing regime
and the terms and conditions for the advancement of civil servants and repealing the amended law of 2 August
2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter:
" The law project ").

On December 28, 2017, the CNPD adopted a first opinion on draft law no. 7184. It intends to
limit its comments in this additional opinion to amendment no. 28 which inserts a new article
71 in the bill. The purpose of this new article 71 is to replace article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code by
a new text.

The National Commission has several fundamental questions regarding the maintenance of this provision as well as
its compliance with European case law and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter “GDPR”).

158

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES 1. Maintenance of Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code, application of the GDPR and repeal of the amended law

August 2, 2002

Data processing for surveillance purposes is currently governed by Articles 10 and 11 of the amended law
of August 2, 2002 (hereinafter “the law”), article 11 referring to article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code. The latter is aimed at treatments
for surveillance purposes in the workplace operated by an employer i.e. where the data subjects
by monitoring are employees or assimilated, while Article 10 of the law covers all processing for
monitoring purposes unrelated to an employment relationship, i.e. where data subjects
are non-employee third parties.

When an employer processes data for surveillance purposes, Articles 10 of the law and L. 261-
1 of the TB almost always apply cumulatively, whereas in the vast majority of cases, the two
categories of people (employees and non-employees) are concerned. (e.g. video surveillance in a supermarket,
bank or administration: the persons concerned are always employees at the same time as customers,
visitors etc ; monitoring of emails: this concerns employees who communicate with customers, third parties
etc….)

However, the bill intends to repeal the current article 10 of the law and maintain in an amended form
Article L. 261-1 of the CT. It should therefore be noted that, depending on the categories of persons concerned
by the same data processing for surveillance purposes two different legislative regimes will apply,
to know :

- the rules of the GDPR with regard to non-employee data subjects, the GDPR does not however contain a

specific provision comparable to the current Article 10 of the law;

- the rules of Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code as it is proposed to modify it with regard to employees.

The CNPD therefore questions the applicability of these two regimes in practice. In fact, the technical means
by which a monitoring system is operated will not always be able to differentiate between an employee and
a self-employed person. What regime should be applied, for example, to video cameras in an area filming at
both employees and non-employees? Thus, a company wishing, for example, to install a system
video surveillance for security reasons with regard to its employees and customers, processing of
data which is a priori legitimate, provided that all the rules of the GDPR are respected. As it is
proposed to modify article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code, the staff delegation, in this case, could prevent
the complete realization of the installation - yet compliant with the GDPR which is a regulation that takes precedence over the law
national - on the grounds that the cameras could not be configured or programmed in such a way that they
film only the customers but not the employees.

159

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Maintaining Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code thus risks posing significant legal problems in the
most cases of processing for monitoring purposes carried out by employers.

2. Non-compliance of Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code currently in force with European case law

The CNPD considers that the current article L. 261-1 of the CT does not comply with the case law of the Court of Justice of
the European Union (CJEU) for the following reasons.

Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code exhaustively lists the cases (5 in number) on the basis of which an employer can
legitimize data processing for monitoring purposes. This exhaustive list derogates from the cases of lawfulness of
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC (transposed into national law by the current Article 5 of the law) and Article 6 of
GDPR. However, in a judgment of November 24, 2011, the CJEU ruled that "Member States may neither add
new principles relating to the legitimation of the processing of personal data in Article 7 of
Directive 95/46/EC or provide for additional requirements which would modify the scope of any of the six
principles provided for in this article”90. Note that the cases listed in Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC are identical
to those listed in Article 6 paragraph (1) of the GDPR, so that this judgment retains its full value in relation to
GDPR Article 6.

In view of this case law, the CNPD comes to the conclusion that by providing for five cases of legitimation
specific to Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code for processing for monitoring purposes, the legislator has added
principles relating to legitimation and has provided additional requirements that modify the scope of one of the
six principles provided for in Article 6 of the GDPR and more particularly that of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) which
provides that "The processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is
met: (…..) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller
or by a third party, unless the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person prevail
concerned which require protection of personal data (…..). ”, so that the current article
L. 261-1 of the CT is not in line with European case law.

By providing for an exhaustive list of legitimate purposes, the legislator therefore excluded that an employer could
implements data processing for monitoring purposes for other purposes and has thus laid down requirements
which modify the scope of the principle mentioned above.

The principle of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) requires that the respective interests of the
responsible for data processing and the person concerned before carrying out data processing.
When, after this balancing exercise, it turns out that the rights and freedoms of the data subjects
prevail, the processing of data would be considered disproportionate and therefore unlawful. But, as it is

90 ASNEF judgment of 24 November 2011, C-468/10 and C-469-10.

160

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES a question of balance, the data controller can adjust and adopt measures to mitigate the risks
for the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

The current article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code therefore removes the possibility for the employer to legitimize processing for
purposes of surveillance in the workplace on the basis of Article 5 paragraph (1) letter d) of the law (transposing Article
7 letter f) of Directive 95/46/EC), respectively of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) of the GDPR from 25
May 2018, while only the five scenarios of Article L. 261-1 of the CT can legitimize such processing
of data.

In conclusion, Luxembourg labor law, in that it modifies the scope of one of the principles of Article 6
of the GDPR and that it in a way prohibits the employer from resorting to this condition of legality of a standard nevertheless
superior, is neither in accordance with European case law nor with the GDPR, so that article L. 261-1 of the TB does not
cannot be maintained in its current version.

3. Compliance of the proposed amendment to Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code (Article 71 of the bill) with the

European case law and the GDPR?

The CNPD therefore welcomes the fact that the authors of the bill, as amended, propose in article
71 of the coordinated text of the bill to modify the current article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code to bring it into line with the
European case law. In particular, it welcomes the fact that this article no longer limits the cases in which an employer
can be based to legitimize data processing for monitoring purposes and that the provisions of Article
6 GDPR will apply to this type of data processing.

That said, it is still necessary to examine whether the other provisions of article 71 of the amended bill are
GDPR compliant.

One of the novelties provided for by European legislation is the introduction to Article 5 paragraph 2 of the GDPR
the principle of accountability with regard to the data controller. This constitutes a
paradigm shift insofar as the legislator has decided to move from an a priori control system to
a system of a posteriori control by the European control authorities. This means that those responsible
no longer need to declare their data processing to the CNPD beforehand (system of
notifications/prior authorizations), but that they must put in place, in terms of internal governance,
a whole series of mandatory measures, which must also be documented, to demonstrate their compliance with
regulations and which the CNPD is required to check.

These measures that the controller must put in place include:

161

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT - the keeping of a register of activities containing details relating to all data processing (replacing the

notification/authorization system);

- the appointment, where applicable, of a data protection officer;

- the implementation of technical and organizational security measures;

- carrying out impact analyzes relating to data protection (AIPD/DPIA), when a type of processing,
in particular through the use of new technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, context
and the purposes of the processing, is likely to create a high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, this in this case in the vast majority of cases of data processing for the purposes of
surveillance ;

-  etc.

The spirit of the GDPR and the GDPR enforcement system as designed and intended by the legislator
can be summarized as follows: data controllers must internally assess and document
the implementation of a whole series of mandatory measures to be able to demonstrate their compliance; there
CNPD, on its own initiative, on the basis of complaints it receives or on the basis of the cooperation procedure
European Union, carries out checks and sanctions in the event of violation of the provisions of the GDPR.

However, the CNPD is wondering how article L. 261-1 of the CT modified by the bill is articulated with the
system put in place by the GDPR and whether it is compatible with the European text.

Indeed, if the authors of the draft text intend on the one hand to repeal the system of authorizations
prerequisites for processing for monitoring purposes, they are reintroducing an opinion procedure on the other side
prior.

It is true that Article 88 of the GDPR allows Member States to “provide by law or by means of
collective agreements, more specific rules to ensure the protection of rights and freedoms with regard to
concerns the processing of personal data of employees in the context of the relationship of
work, for the purposes, in particular, of recruitment, performance of the employment contract, including compliance with
obligations set by law or by collective agreements, management, planning and organization
employment, equality and diversity in the workplace, health and safety at work, protection
property belonging to the employer or client, for the purposes of exercising and enjoying the rights and
employment-related benefits, individually or collectively, as well as for the purpose of terminating the relationship of
work.

162

52018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTAPPENDIXES These rules include appropriate and specific measures to protect human dignity, the legitimate interests
and the fundamental rights of data subjects, paying particular attention to transparency
processing, transfer of personal data within a group of companies, or a group
enterprises engaged in joint economic activity and control systems in the workplace".

The CNPD wonders, however, to what extent article L. 261-1 of the draft CT is really supposed to specify
specific rules within the meaning of the aforementioned Article 88, while the prior opinion procedure risks being
conflict with, or even defeat, Articles 35 and 36 of the GDPR.

What regime should be applied to data processing that is subject to an impact assessment (Art. 35 GDPR)
and according to which consultation of the CNPD is necessary under Article 36 of the GDPR? Moreover,
the GDPR grants the supervisory authority a period of 8 weeks (which may be extended by 6 weeks), to
respond to the data controller with a written notice as part of the consultation procedure
prior (Art. 36.2 GDPR). The text of article L. 261-1 of the draft TC only grants the CNPD a period of one
month.

As also raised by the Council of State in its opinion of March 30, 2018, what is the legal value of the opinion
referred to in Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code? “The Council of State is wondering about the choice to invest this mission in the CNPD.
Technically, the CNPD only issues an opinion. However, this opinion binds it and the Council of State finds it difficult to see how it
may, following a subsequent complaint by a member of staff, adopt a contrary decision
to the position taken during the opinion. Investing the CNPD with a prior opinion competence, which in reality is equivalent to
authorization, and subsequent decision-making power as to the legality of the processing, even if it is likely to
protect the rights of interested parties, leads to a certain confusion of roles on the part of the supervisory authority
called upon to intervene before the implementation of the treatment and to control it afterwards. In this context, the Council of State
still wonders about the nature of the act adopted by the CNPD. The term "pronounce" used in the text means,
in the eyes of the Council of State, that the supervisory authority adopts a binding decision. Logically, a
recourse should be opened before the administrative court in application of article 59 of the bill under examination. »

All these open questions are not specified by the rules of the draft text as required by article
88 of the GDPR and are therefore sources of significant legal uncertainty.

For the above reasons, the CNPD recommends that the authors of the bill repeal Article L. 261-1
of the CT. Indeed, the CNPD considers that the GDPR constitutes a solid and coherent reference system which provides for a number
important and sufficient guarantees to protect the persons concerned, including in particular the employees, and this in
occurrence in relation to processing for workplace monitoring purposes. Without wanting to list them
in detail, let us mention the right of any person (whether an individual employee or a staff delegation)
lodge a complaint with the CNPD under article 77 of the GDPR or article 35 of the GDPR

163

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT which provides that for processing which is likely to create a risk for the persons concerned,
in this case the employees, an impact analysis relating to data protection will have to be carried out – and that
on the basis of article 35.9 the company must, if necessary, seek the opinion of the persons concerned or their
representatives in this process. Finally, the GDPR also grants sufficient means and powers to
the CNPD to effectively and dissuasively sanction data controllers who carry out
data processing in violation of the law.

If the legislator intends to maintain article L.261-1 of the CT as proposed in article 71 of the bill, the CNPD
considers it necessary to adapt and clarify it, in the light of the observations made in this opinion, in order to
make it compliant with both the requirements of the case law of the CJEU and the GDPR.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 25, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

164

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
No. 7248 relating to the financing of work to extend and improve the Network
integrated national radio communication system for security and emergency services
Luxembourg and amending the law of 20 May 2014 on the financing
of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network for Security and
Luxembourg relief

Deliberation n° 283/2018 of April 27, 2018

In accordance with Article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of
persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as "the amended law of 2 August
2002”), the National Commission for Data Protection has the particular mission of notifying “all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated February 20, 2018, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to make a decision at the
subject of bill n° 7248 relating to the financing of the work of extension and improvement of the Network
integrated national radio communication service for the Luxembourg security and emergency services and covering
modification of the law of 20 May 2014 relating to the financing of the National Integrated Radiocommunication Network
for the Luxembourg security and emergency services (hereinafter: “draft law”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill aims, on the one hand, to strengthen the financial means in order to "welcome
new users and improve the operation of the network" and on the other hand, "to provide a foundation
legal to the processing of personal data concerning public officials of authorities, administrations
and public bodies resulting from the use of RENITA communication equipment and services”.

The explanatory memorandum specifies, in its point 3 relating to the evolution of the network, that "today, more than 9,000 agents
from the Grand Ducal Police, the Customs and Excise Administration, the Bridges Administration and
Chaussées, the Administration of Emergency Services and Municipal Fire Services, the Center for
Communications from the Government, the Luxembourg Army, the High Commissioner for National Protection
and the State Intelligence Service” are among the users of the network and that “soon, the agents
the Navigation Service, the Detention Center and the Prison Administration will also be part of the
users" of this network. In view of the large number of agents concerned and the risk of breach of compliance with the
private lives of agents in their workplace, the National Commission welcomes the fact that the government
intends to base the processing of personal data processed through the RENITA network on national law.

165

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD It is important to provide a legal basis while the processing of personal data within the framework of the network
RENITA is to be considered as data processing for surveillance purposes within the meaning of Articles 10 of the
amended law of August 2, 2002 and article 261-1 of the Labor Code. Indeed, if the processing of data could
still be legitimized with regard to public officials (employees), to a limited extent, on the basis of article L-261-1
of the Labor Code, the situation is different with regard to the legitimization of surveillance on the basis of Article 10
of the modified law of August 2, 2002 with regard to non-salaried agents, namely firefighters and first aiders
volunteers. Only consent could be taken into account, but such consent could not be
considered free with regard to the circumstances and the context of the data processing.

Indeed, the National Commission refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 29 November 2013, according to which
“the essentials of the normative framework must result from the law, including the purposes, conditions and modalities according to
which less essential elements can be regulated by regulations”91 and the opinions of the Council of State
who regularly recall that “in matters reserved for formal law, the exercise of regulatory power
by the Grand Duke is subject to the existence of a legislative provision specifying the purposes, conditions and
modalities under which a Grand-Ducal regulation can be adopted”92.

On the eve of the entry into application of the general regulation (EU) 2016/679 on data protection (hereinafter
“GDPR”), the legality of any new proposed legislation must also be considered with respect to
this regulation. Indeed, from May 25, 2018, a new personal data protection regime
will apply in the European Union under which data controllers will be held accountable and
must themselves guarantee their compliance with the provisions of the GDPR.

However, Article 6 paragraph 3 of the GDPR requires that the basis for processing which, as in the present case, falls under
the scope of Article 6 paragraph 1, letter c), namely “the processing is necessary for compliance with an obligation
to which the controller is subject" and letter e), namely "the processing is necessary
for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller” is defined by Union law or the law of the Member State to which the controller
treatment is submitted.

The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
the public authority vested in the controller.

This legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the GDPR, among others:
the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; data types
who are the subject of the processing; the people concerned ; the entities to which the personal data
may be disclosed and the purposes for which they may be disclosed; purpose limitation; THE

91 Constitutional Court, judgment 108/13 of November 29, 2013 (Mém. A n° 217 of December 13, 2013, p.3886).
92 Opinion of the Council of State of 9 December 2014 with regard to bill 6588 on the organization of the taxi services sector and modification of the code of

consumption, p.11 (article 5). See also p.19 (article 20).

166

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES retention periods; and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure a
lawful and fair treatment,…

In the context of this opinion, the National Commission will limit itself to making a few observations relating to
article 3 of the bill which inserts a new article 5 in the aforementioned law of 20 May 2014.

1. As regards the data controllers

Paragraph 5 of the new article 5 provides that “each of the authorities and administrations is responsible for the
processing of personal data relating to the use of the network by its own agents, jointly
with the service in charge of managing and coordinating the operation of the network within the ministry having
in its attributions the national integrated radiocommunication network”. However, Article 5 sometimes uses the
terminology of “authorities, administrations and public services (beginning of article 5), sometimes of administrations or
public bodies” (§ 4) and finally of “authorities and administrations” (§5), so that it is ultimately not easy
to know who may be responsible for processing in the context of the use of the RENITA network. The Commission
therefore recommends using identical terminology throughout Article 5.

Moreover, it appears from Article 5 that the authors did not list the administrations, authorities and bodies
public concerned by the processing of personal data using the RENITA network. The Commission
national therefore wonders whether this lack of enumeration is due to the fact that other
"users" would be likely to be added "a posteriori". If this is not the case, the National Commission
suggests listing, in the text of Article 5 itself, all the public authorities, administrations and bodies
who will be considered as data controllers as indicated in the commentary to the article.

2. Regarding the purposes of the processing

It appears from reading the new article 5 of the bill that the purposes are as follows:

- Coordination of operations;
- Optimization of operations;
- Preservation of the safety and vital interests of their agents;
- Protection of, and relief to, the population;
- Analyze the progress of operations and examine any incidents;
- Improve intervention plans and methods.

The National Commission considers these purposes to be explicit and precise. However, she wonders about the
need to provide for the purpose of “vital interest”.

167

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD It considers that this inclusion is likely to create confusion between the notion of vital interest and the notion
security of physical integrity. Indeed, the notion of vital interest is taken up as a condition for the lawfulness of a
processing under Article 6, paragraph 1, letter (d) of the GDPR is applicable in very specific situations and
rare such as, as mentioned in recital 46 of the GDPR, “when the processing is necessary for the purposes
humanitarian purposes, including to monitor epidemics and their spread, or in cases of humanitarian emergencies,
including situations of natural and man-made disasters”. Processing on this basis
should take place only where the processing cannot manifestly be based on another legal basis
which is not the case here, whereas the security of the physical integrity of the agents is planned as being one of the
purposes of using the RENITA network.

Therefore, in order to avoid any confusion with the concept of "vital interest" included in Article 6 of the GDPR, the
National Commission is of the opinion that it is sufficient to mention as the purpose “the preservation of the security of
agents” which includes, among other things, the protection of the physical integrity of agents.

In addition, as mentioned before, the purpose of this bill is to establish the processing of personal data
personal data processed via the RENITA network by national law, in accordance with article 6.3 of the (EU) regulation
2016/679 general on data protection (hereinafter "GDPR"), that is to say on the basis of the conditions of lawfulness
taken up in Article 6 paragraph 1, letter c), namely “the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
to which the controller is subject" and letter e), namely "the processing is necessary for the execution
a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of public authority vested in the person responsible for the
treatment ".

3. Regarding the terms of access to personal data

Paragraphs (1) to (3) of the new Article 5 specify the different categories of data.

The commentary to the articles specifies in more detail that "the data processed relate to the identity of the agents
users of communication equipment (portable or on board vehicles), the status of the
terminals and their geolocation during service or during interventions, on the date and time
communications sent and received and to a limited extent the content of text messages and
voice communication”.

In this respect, the National Commission wonders what the terms "to an extent limited to the content
text messages and voice communications” as mentioned in the commentary to the articles.

With respect to the terminology used in paragraph (1) "location" and paragraph (2) "geolocation",
it suggests using the same terminology throughout the article under analysis.

168

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Furthermore, the National Commission understands that only the operational departments of the authorities,
administrations and public services can access in real time “indications relating to the location and
to the status of the terminals and can follow from their command posts the communications sent and
received by their agents in operation, including with a replay function within 3 hours”.

It appears from the comments of the articles that only those responsible for steering and monitoring the
interventions can replay within 3 hours for operational purposes only. Insofar
where the authors intend to limit by law replay to a specific type/function of agents and for a purpose
determined, the National Commission wonders whether it would not be preferable to indicate this in the text of the
paragraph 1 of the bill instead of specifying it in the operating instructions.

Paragraphs (2) and (3) of the new article 5 specify the a posteriori access to the data and this,
in order to analyze the progress of operations, to examine possible incidents as well as in order to improve
intervention plans and methods. The National Commission has no particular remarks concerning the
present paragraphs but suggests replacing the wording of paragraph (3) with "the content of the messages
and the conversations are recorded and kept for a maximum of three months”.

With regard to paragraph (4) of the new Article 5, the National Commission wonders about the use
of the term “punctually”. Indeed, this paragraph provides that "the data can only be consulted
punctually on the express decision of the heads of the administrations or public bodies concerned or of their
delegates for the analysis of the conduct of operations and the examination of possible incidents as well as
possibilities for improving intervention plans and methods”.

The National Commission suggests omitting the word “punctually” because it is unclear and helps to sow
confusion.

On the other hand, it regrets that there are no criteria or precision in the body of the text as to the factors
triggers on the basis of which the heads of administrations, public bodies or delegates take their
express decision to conduct (i) workflow analysis, (ii) incident review, or (iii)
improvement of intervention plans and methods. In accordance with the second paragraph of subsection (5) of
Article 5 such details must be provided for in the internal operating instructions.

In paragraphs 2 and 3 of paragraph (5) of the new article 5 of the draft law, it is indeed specified that "the terms
restrictions on access to recorded data will be the subject of internal service instructions which will specify the
technical and organizational measures to be implemented in order to reduce the risks of breaches of the private sphere
of the agents concerned and to prevent possible abuses. These internal operating instructions will be subject to
prior consultation with the National Commission for Data Protection”.

169

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The National Commission regrets that in the interest of the security and legal predictability of the people whose
the personal data is processed, the methods of access are not regulated in a general way to the
terms of the law. She suggests that the text at least specify that access to data cannot be used for the evaluation
personal aspects or the individual behavior of agents or for disciplinary purposes.

The National Commission understands that for each user entity of the RENITA network the terms of access
taking into account their particular operating needs must be the subject of instructions
internal service standards which specify the technical and organizational measures to be implemented in order to reduce
risks of breaching the private sphere of the agents concerned and to prevent possible abuses.

It is true that recital 41 of the GDPR specifies that "where this Regulation refers to a database
legal action or a legislative measure, this does not necessarily mean that the adoption of a legislative act
by a parliament is required, without prejudice to obligations under the constitutional order of the State
concerned member. However, this legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and
its application should be predictable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice
of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights”. As such, the National Commission
asks, however, whether the use of internal service instructions is sufficient for this requirement.

In any case, the National Commission welcomes the fact that the text provides that it must be asked for its opinion
when the internal service instructions are put in place.

4. The retention period of GPS geolocation data, CDR traffic data and recording of

messages and conversations

With regard to the retention period of geolocation data and the content of messages and
conversations, the authors of the bill have provided for a duration of six, respectively three months.

The National Commission considers that these retention periods are proportionate to the purposes
continued.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 27, 2018

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

170

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Second additional opinion of the National Data Protection Commission
relating to parliamentary amendments to bill no. 7184 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and implementation of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
general on data protection), amending the Labor Code and the law
amended of March 25, 2015 setting the salary regime and the terms and conditions
promotion of civil servants.

Deliberation n° 423/2018 of June 8, 2018

In accordance with Article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of
persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "the amended law of 2 August 2002"),
the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter: “the CNPD” or “National Commission”) has
in particular for mission to advise "all the bills or proposals of law creating a processing of the same
and on all regulatory or administrative measures issued on the basis of this law”.

On December 28, 2017, the CNPD adopted a first opinion on draft law no. 7184. An opinion
supplement was made on April 25, 2018.

Following a series of parliamentary amendments, adopted on May 14, 2018, to Bill No. 7184
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and implementation of the regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “GDPR”),
amendment of the Labor Code and the amended law of March 25, 2015 setting the salary regime and the
conditions and procedures for the advancement of civil servants, the CNPD takes action on its own initiative. She intends to limit her
comments in this second supplementary opinion to amendments 9, 26, 40 and 41.

Amendments n° 9 (former article 17, new article 14) and n° 26 (former article 54)

The new article 14 provides that the CNPD has the "power to bring all violations of the provisions adopted in
under the GDPR" to the knowledge of the judicial authorities. The CNPD does not understand the addition of the terms "
of the provisions adopted pursuant to the Regulation”, whereas paragraph 5 of Article 58 of the GDPR specifies

171

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT that it must be “any breach of this regulation”. The new article 14 limits the powers of the CNPD
in relation to the GDPR, without however specifying which jurisdiction the CNPD is supposed to seize. As is,
the national provision in question has no normative value, although it does not specify the procedure
procedure to be followed by the CNPD to proactively take legal action for a violation of the GDPR. She had
already raised this issue in its opinion of December 28, 2017. Thus the CNPD considers that
this question is still not sufficiently clarified and that the draft law does not comply with the GDPR on this point.
point.

The National Commission also regrets that the authors of the amendments did not follow the CNPD in
its aforementioned opinion on the need to provide in national law for a judicial procedure as required by the judgment
“Schrems” of the CJEU (Case C-362/14) of October 6, 2015. It therefore reiterates for the purposes of this
opinion these observations made in its first opinion on this subject.

The CNPD also regrets that the authors of the amendments deleted former article 54 from the bill.
believes that in the absence of these details there is a risk that it will not be able to enforce judicially
corrective measures adopted by it. Thus, for example, if the CNPD were to adopt a corrective measure to
against the State or a municipality, it will not necessarily have sufficient coercive means to
respect its decision, especially since the system of financial penalties and periodic penalty payments does not apply to
the state or the municipalities.

Amendment No. 40

Amendment No. 40 intends to replace Article 59 of the bill initially tabled, respectively Article 68
of the coordinated text following the government amendments of March 8, 2018. The amendment proposes a new
Article 63 in Chapter 3 (of Title II of the draft law) entitled “Processing of special categories of personal data
personal character”.

The CNPD would like to point out from the outset that it has serious doubts as to the normative value of paragraphs (1),
(2) and (3) of the new article 63. Despite the adaptations and textual modifications made to the old article 68
(initial article 59), it can only recall and reiterate its observations formulated in its first opinion of 28
December 2017, namely: “…the CNPD questions above all the raison d’être of article 59. Indeed, if article 7
of the amended law of 2 August 2002 must be read in the context of transposing a directive into national law,
in this case Directive 95/46/EC, it is different in the case of a European regulation which applies
directly in the Member States, without transposition measures. Thus, Article 9 paragraph 2 letter h)
of the GDPR constitutes the legal basis (directly applicable in national law) to legitimize the processing of
data referred to in subsections (1), (3) and (4) last sentence of section 59 of the bill, so that these
provisions appear superfluous and that they can be deleted from the bill. »

172

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Note that except for letter j) of paragraph (2), Article 9 of the GDPR is not part of the “opening clauses”
of Chapter IX of the GDPR (Articles 85 to 91), i.e. “Provisions relating to specific situations of
treatment” which offer Member States the possibility of providing and specifying more specific rules in
certain matters in relation to the general rules of the GDPR.

Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of Article 9 of the GDPR, applicable in Luxembourg law since May 25, 2018,
therefore do not in principle require transposition measures such as those proposed by paragraphs
(1), (2) and (3) of new section 63 in this bill. Only paragraph (4) of Article 9 of the GDPR
allows member states to “maintain or introduce additional conditions, including limitations,
with regard to the processing of genetic data, biometric data or data concerning
la santé”, to which the CNPD intends to return later in this opinion.

That said, the CNPD will analyze below the four paragraphs of the new article 63 of the bill.

- Paragraph (1) of the new Article 63 of the draft law provides that the data controller, when processing
special categories of data for the purposes provided for in Article 9 paragraph 2, letters b), g) and i) of the
GDPR, must implement at least the five additional security measures listed in points 1° to 5° of the
paragraph (1) of the new article 63. The CNPD wonders in relation to which other security measures, the
security measures referred to in points 1° to 5° may be qualified as “additional”. She assumes that you have to
understand these security measures as additional to the security measures provided and required
by the rules of the GDPR. However, the security measures proposed in the text can at most be considered
as standard measures and clearly cannot be considered as additional, then
that Article 32 of the GDPR already requires the controller or processor to implement
appropriate technical and organizational security measures taking into account the context and the purposes
of the processing as well as the risks, the degree of likelihood and severity of which vary, for the rights and freedoms
natural persons. The CNPD is therefore surprised that the draft law provides for a level of security
which does not seem, in the vast majority of cases – without specific additional measures – to satisfy the
level required by the GDPR in the context of this processing of highly sensitive data. So she wonders
seriously on the rationale and normative value of subsection (1) of new section 63 of the bill
and considers in any event that this provision does not comply with the GDPR, so that it is necessary to
DELETE.

- Paragraph (2) of the new article 63 of the draft law provides that the data controller may communicate
special categories of data to third parties for the purposes set out in Article 9 paragraph 2, letters b),
g), i) and j) of the GDPR after having implemented “additional” security measures listed in points
1° and 2° of subsection (2) of new section 63. These additional security measures differ from those of
subsection (1).

173

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD First of all, the CNPD wonders about the usefulness of the wording “Provided that their processing is in itself
lawful...". Why should it be specified that the initial processing must be lawful, when it should be obvious? She
wonders, moreover, why the text refers to letter j) of paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the GDPR
(processing for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes), whereas the processing of special categories of data within the framework of these purposes is
already regulated by article 62 of the bill.

The CNPD is however particularly concerned about the content and scope of the provision under review. Re
the scope of the provision:

The provision seems to make the communication of special categories of personal data legitimate de facto.
personal data to third parties insofar as the purposes of the processing by the third party are covered by Article 9 paragraph
2, points b), g), i) and j) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Indeed, the communication of sensitive data to third parties constitutes a serious interference in private life.
of the persons concerned. In this respect, the constant case law of the CJEU holds that the legal basis must be
sufficiently clear and precise and must offer protection against possible arbitrary attacks, by defining it
even the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right guaranteed by the Charter93. With regard to the clear and
of the legal basis, the European Court of Human Rights (hereafter “ECtHR”) stated that “one does not
can consider as a 'law' only a norm stated with enough precision to allow the citizen to regulate
his conduct; Surrounding himself with informed advice if necessary, he must be able to foresee, to a reasonable degree
in the circumstances of the case, the consequences of such a nature as to derive from a given act.

However, the CNPD is of the opinion that the provision under opinion is very vague and does not respect the requirement of clarity and
precision of the law. Indeed, the choice of the authors of the amendment of the functional order approach to the detriment
of a personal definition ensures and involves the risk that any data controller
the public and private sectors (administrations, public establishments, hospitals, doctors, laboratories,
association of the contracted sector,…..) may communicate sensitive data to any third party, provided that
the communication of data takes place within the framework of the four purposes listed, which are themselves very general
and vague and that additional security measures have been put in place.

Regarding the content of the provision:

Regarding the so-called additional security measures, the CNPD would like to point out that pseudonymization and
encryption of personal data is already part of the explicitly mentioned security measures
in Article 32 (1)(a) of the GDPR and can therefore hardly be qualified as additional measures in
the occurrence in the context of the processing of special categories of personal data. This being,

93 See the judgment of 17 November 2015, WebMindLicenses Kft. vs. Nemzeti Adó- és Vámhivatal Kiemelt Adó- és Vám Föigazgatóság, C 419/14, ECLI:EU:C:2015:832,

item 81.

94 Cf. the judgments of the ECtHR, Sunday Times c. United Kingdom of 26 April 1979, Series A no. 30, § 61 and CouEDH, Silver and others v. UK, no. 5947/72; 6205/73;

7052/75; 7061/75; 7107/75; 7113/75; 7136/75, series A no. 61, § 86-88.

174

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES point 1° of paragraph 2 of the new article 63 of the bill provides firstly for the anonymization of
data. However, in reality and in practice, in almost all cases the anonymization of data is inappropriate,
taking into account the purpose of the communication of the data. It is indeed difficult to imagine that the new
controller can carry out its processing on the basis of completely anonymous data. And if such
were the case, the GDPR would not apply anyway. Thus, point 1° secondly provides that, failing
anonymization of data, it is necessary to set up a security system for “transactions” such as
pseudonymization or encryption of data. The CNPD does not see the link, nor the logic between these two
alternatives, given that pseudonymization is a data depersonalization technique used
so that the data can no longer be assigned to a person without recourse to information
additional information and that encryption is a purely IT security measure in principle applied to
personal data.

Then, point 2° resumes a second time, that in the absence of anonymization of the data, it would be necessary to
provide for a “data communication procedure ensuring compliance of processing with the GDPR”. There
CNPD wonders how point 1° relates to point 2°, which each provides for an alternative in the absence
data anonymization. She also has difficulty in grasping what is to be understood by the “procedure”.
of communication” referred to in point 2°.

The measures thus proposed by the draft text cannot be considered as measures
complementary or additional to the GDPR regime and therefore cannot in themselves constitute
appropriate and specific safeguards to safeguard the rights and freedoms of data subjects within the meaning
of the GDPR.

A “communication of data to third parties” obviously also takes place during an exchange or sharing of
data, when interconnecting files or when directly accessing data in a file. Little
therefore matters the terminology used to describe a data processing operation which always involves
data communications.

The CNPD wishes to recall in this regard the requirement of the Constitutional Court that "in matters
reserved by the Constitution to the law, the essence of the normative framework must result from the law, including the ends, the
conditions and methods according to which less essential elements can be regulated by regulations
and decrees issued by the Grand Duke. »95

The Council of State also regularly recalls in its opinions that “(…) access to external files and the
communication of computer data to third parties constitutes an interference with privacy and therefore, in
under Article 11(3) of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. In this case, the main
of the normative framework must appear in the law.

95 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of March 20, 2015.

175

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The law must indicate the databases to which a public authority may have access or to which a public authority
public may have data communicated to it, as well as the purposes of this access or communication
(…). »96

Based on these considerations, the CNPD considers that the legality of communications of sensitive data to
third parties should be found and covered by the various special laws regulating the various fields and
sectors covered by the purposes in the text under examination (laws regulating public health in the broad sense, law
on hospital establishments, law regulating certain health professions, laws regulating the protection
social security, social security legislation, laws regulating the contracted sector, etc.), i.e.
that the various communications, exchanges, sharing, interconnections and direct access should find their
legitimacy on a case-by-case basis in these laws which should specify the entities or bodies that can communicate or
to have data communicated and for what precise and specific purposes, insofar as this does not appear
clear of their legal duties.

The CNPD is of the opinion that paragraph (2) of the new article 63 of the bill has no place in a text
of general law like the one under examination, while it does not meet the requirements of precision and foreseeability
to which a legal text must respond. In view of the significant legal uncertainty created, it considers it necessary
to omit this provision.

- Paragraph (3) of the new article 63 of the draft law intends to generally legitimize exchanges of
data as part of the performance of a legal or regulatory mission for a purpose this time
ci, namely that indicated in letter h) of paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the GDPR, “under the conditions referred to in
Article 9 paragraph (3) of the GDPR”. The CNPD is wondering whether this phrase is used in this case
correctly and in accordance with the GDPR. Indeed, at the location of letter h) of paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the
GDPR, in the eyes of the CNPD, this sentence relates only to the case where the "processing is
necessary ……… under a contract with a healthcare professional [and subject to the conditions and
safeguards referred to in paragraph 3]” Paragraph (3) of Article 9 of the GDPR is therefore not intended to apply
only in this particular case. However, the authors of the amendment intend to generalize the application of
Article 9 paragraph 3 of the GDPR to all data exchanges covered by the provision under examination.

  For the rest, the CNPD would like to refer to and repeat here all its observations made above relating to
in subsection (2) of new section 63 of the bill. Thus, for the same reasons, it considers that the
subsection (3) of new section 63 of the bill should be deleted.

- Paragraph (4) of the new section 63 of the bill aims to limit the processing of genetic data
in accordance with Article 9 paragraph 4 of the GDPR which offers this possibility to Member States. In his
first opinion of December 28, 2017, the CNPD was concerned that the bill did not contain provisions

96 See for example: Council of State, Opinion n° 6975/5 of June 7, 2016 relating to the bill amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning financial assistance

state for higher education.

176

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES relating to genetic data, such as the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of
data.

  The National Commission congratulates the authors of the amendment for having incorporated the provisions of paragraph
(4) under review to limit the processing of genetic data and thus maintain the level of protection
in the matter. The provisions are largely inspired by Article 6 paragraph (3) of the amended law of 2 August
2002 on data protection. The CNPD also welcomes the ban on the processing of
genetic data in labor law and insurance.

- It is a fact that insurance companies must be able to process health data for certain types
insurance contracts. However, in view of the functional approach chosen by the authors of amendment 40, the
insurance companies are no longer found in the determination of the data controllers who can
process health data. It also turns out that none of the conditions of legitimacy of Article 9 paragraph
(2) of the GDPR is not likely to legitimize the processing of health data by insurance companies.
The CNPD is of the opinion that the explicit consent provided for in Article 9 paragraph (2) letter a) of the GDPR of
data subjects does not allow this data processing to be legitimized, even though it may not be
considered free within the meaning of the GDPR for certain types of insurance (e.g. life insurance in the context
a mortgage loan, outstanding balance insurance, etc.). In general, an insurance contract being a
contract of adhesion, consent is generally not considered appropriate to legitimize the
processing of health data in this context. In its opinion of March 30, 2018, the Council of State also
remarked with regard to article 68 that “there is still the question of the consent of the persons concerned
within the framework of the conclusion of a contract of adhesion”. The purpose of the "social protection" provided for in the letters
b) and h) of paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the GDPR does not appear appropriate to legitimize the processing either.
health data from insurance companies. Indeed, insurance companies process data
not for health or welfare purposes, but for commercial purposes, such as
specifies the Council of State in its aforementioned opinion. Social protection not otherwise defined by the GDPR, is not
no longer defined by national law. However, the foreign doctrine analyzed by the CNPD notes that companies
are not part of a national social protection system where the law does not provide for it. In
Indeed, French and German laws, for example, expressly provide that supplementary contracts of
private nature of health insurance are assimilated to compulsory health insurance and are therefore part of the system
National Social Protection Fund. Still, the other types of insurance indicated above cannot
be considered as part of the social protection system. The National Commission therefore considers
necessary that the draft law under review provides for a national provision, in accordance with Article 9 paragraph
(4) GDPR, to legitimize the processing of health insurance data. A condition of legitimacy
appropriate could be that provided for in Article 6 paragraph (1) letter b) of the GDPR. However, it turns out that the legislator
European Union has not provided for this purpose under Article 9 of the GDPR. The CNPD is of the opinion that this is an oversight
of the European legislator, which is why national legislation must remedy this deficiency.

177

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Such a provision could read as follows: “Subject to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
the processing of health data, with the exception of genetic data, is lawful when it is necessary for the execution
of an insurance contract to which the data subject is a party or the execution of pre-contractual measures
taken at the latter's request.

Amendment 41 (new Article 63a)

Amendment No. 41 introduces through Article 63bis a new provision to limit the access powers of the
CNPD conferred on it by the GDPR by letters e) and f) of paragraph (1) of Article 58.

The CNPD considers that the provision in question does not meet the requirements of precision and foreseeability
to which a legal text must respond, while the text does not specify exactly which laws or regulations
governing professions subject to professional secrecy must be respected. Moreover, not all
laws subjecting a profession to secrecy do not provide for a specific procedure in the context of investigations
administrative or judicial. In any case, the CNPD understands that in cases where the legislation does not
does not provide for specific rules of procedure for access to premises and data, the investigatory power of the
CNPD cannot be limited, i.e. professional secrecy cannot be opposed to it. She believes that in
state, the draft national provision does not reconcile the right to data protection and the obligation of secrecy
which applies to certain professions.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on June 8, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

178

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation concerning: 1. the sale by internet to the public of medicinal products
human use; 2. preparing, dividing, packaging or repackaging
medicines for human use.

Deliberation n° 440/2018 of July 9, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated December 11, 2017, the Minister of Health invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning: 1. the sale of medicines to the public via the Internet
for human use; 2. the preparation, division, packaging or repackaging of drugs to
human use (hereinafter “the draft Grand-Ducal regulation” or “the draft”).

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to implement the law of 7 June 2017 amending the amended law of 4 August 1975
concerning the manufacture and importation of medicines and 2. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning
dispensing drugs to the public.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this project has two parts:

1. the procedures for implementing the quality and safety rules governing the operations of preparation,
division, packaging or repackaging of drugs in pharmacies or hospital pharmacies;
2. the procedures for implementing the distance sale to the public of non-prescription medicines

with a view to adapting the legislation on medicinal products for human use to European law.

The CNPD notes that Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “the GDPR”) is applicable in
all Member States of the European Union since May 25, 2018. Thus, it considers that there is no longer any
interest in analyzing the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in the light of the amended law of 2 August 2002 currently
still in force, but it will notify it only on the basis of the provisions of the GDPR.

179

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
having an impact on privacy and the protection of personal data.

Ad article 3: Subcontracting

Under Article 3 paragraph (1) of the draft, the subcontracting of the operation to a dispensary or a pharmacy
hospital pharmacy on behalf of another pharmacy or hospital pharmacy is reserved for the incumbent pharmacist,
respectively to the managing pharmacist. According to paragraph (2) of the said article, even subcontracting outside
from a hospital dispensary or pharmacy is possible, if certain conditions are met.

In the two above-mentioned hypotheses, a subcontracting contract must be concluded which must include
the particulars provided for in paragraph (3) of Article 3 of the draft.

In terms of data protection, the processor is the "natural or legal person, public authority,
the department or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the controller
of the processing” (Article 4, point 8) of the GDPR). According to Article 28 of the GDPR, the processing of personal data
personnel by a subcontractor must be governed by a contract or other legal act, binding the subcontractor with respect to
of the controller, and providing, inter alia, the object and duration of the processing, the nature and purpose
of the processing, the type of personal data and the categories of data subjects, as well as
the obligation for the processor to process personal data only on documented instructions from the
controller.

Thus, if a possible subcontractor referred to in Article 3 of the project under examination processes personal data
on behalf of another pharmacy or hospital pharmacy, for example in the context of labeling
nominative as provided for in Article 7 paragraph (2) of the draft, the National Commission emphasizes that the provisions
provided for in article 28 of the GDPR, a higher standard of law, also apply.

Ad article 5: Responsibilities and competences of staff

The commentary to Article 5 of the draft under examination provides that "the incumbent pharmacist and the pharmacist-
manager are responsible for ensuring that the premises, equipment, coordination of procedures, personnel and their
practical training relating to preparation, division, packaging or repackaging operations
meet the requirements of this Grand-Ducal Regulation. »

According to Article 24 paragraph (1) of the GDPR and in application of the principle of accountability, the controller
treatment, in this case the incumbent pharmacist respectively the managing pharmacist, must implement
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the

180

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES processing is carried out in accordance with the GDPR. The said article provides in its paragraph (2) that when "it is
proportionate to the processing activities, the measures referred to in paragraph 1 include the implementation
implementation of appropriate data protection policies by the controller. »

In addition, the CNPD wishes to emphasize that under Article 32 of the GDPR, the controller must put
implement the appropriate measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk.

It is also of the opinion that the protection of the confidentiality and security of personal data
constitutes a major challenge when processing sensitive data (including health data, such as
indications on the drugs prescribed to a designated person) insofar as the disclosure of these
data could cause serious harm to patients.

Ad article 16: Personal electronic account

Article 3octies paragraphs 2 and 3 of the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the delivery to the public of
medicines provides on the one hand that the notifier98 is to be considered as data controller
personal information appearing on its website allowing the distance sale of medicines in accordance with the law
of August 2, 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal and on the other hand that the "subcontracting to a third party of all or part of the sales activity on the Internet is
prohibited, with the exception of the technical design and maintenance of the website, which may not, however,
not be entrusted to a person producing or marketing medicinal products”.

Article 3decies paragraph (1) subparagraph 1 of the said law refers to a Grand-Ducal regulation to determine the content
mandatory private space that a patient must create on the notifier's website to order medications online.
line.

Paragraph 3 of the aforementioned paragraph (1) provides the following:

"The patient's personal data must be kept for a period of two years from the date of the
unsubscribe. The processing of the patient's personal data referred to in this article may only take place
for the purpose of allowing the sale of medicinal products via the Internet, referred to in Articles 3bis to 3quaterdecies. Only the
pharmacist has access to the patient's personal data. Access of the Health Department during an inspection
of the notifier's pharmacy is limited to the patient's pseudonymised data. The patient is informed of the treatment
of their data and the right to unsubscribe when creating the account. »

However, the National Commission is of the opinion that the simple “indication of data protection in accordance with
amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data

98 Article 1 of the draft under opinion defines in its point 7) the notifier as “the incumbent pharmacist operating a pharmacy in Luxembourg who has validly notified
to the Minister having Health in his attributions, hereinafter "the Minister", the activity of the sale by internet to the public of medicinal products for human use before his
beginning. »

181

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD personnel” (article 16 paragraph (1) point 10 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation) is not sufficient to
respect the right to information enjoyed by any person concerned on the basis of Article 13 of the GDPR.

Thus, the CNPD asks the authors of the draft to replace point 10) of article 16 paragraph (1) of the draft
by an obligation for the notifier to provide the information provided for in Article 13 of the GDPR to each patient who
creates such a personal electronic account on the internet.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 9, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

182

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
No. 6539 relating to the preservation of companies and modernizing the law of the
bankruptcy.

Deliberation n° 441/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated March 19, 2018, the Minister of Justice sent the CNPD a series
government amendments to bill no. 6539 relating to the preservation of businesses and
modernization of bankruptcy law (hereinafter “the amendments” or the “draft law”).

As a reminder, on November 20, 2015, the CNPD issued an initial opinion on draft law no. 6539 relating to the
preservation of businesses and modernizing bankruptcy law99 in which it formulated various
observations concerning in particular the problem of judicial data, the collection of data on
companies in difficulty, the right of access, the creation of a legal basis for the transmission of certain judgments
to the (secretariat of the) Economic Committee, the request for communication of information from the (secretariat of the)
du) Economic Committee and the issue of the list of protests.

The CNPD notes that Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “the GDPR”) is applicable in
all Member States of the European Union since May 25, 2018. Thus, it considers that there is no longer any
interest in analyzing the bill in the light of the amended law of 2 August 2002 currently still in force,
but it will notify it only on the basis of the provisions of the GDPR.

The National Commission limits its observations to amendments 6, 7 and 15 which give rise to observations
in relation to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data.

1) Amendment n° 6 concerning the initial article 5 (article 5 paragraph (1) new)

  To. The determination of the controller(s)

99 Deliberation no. 652/2015 of 20 November 2015 of the National Commission for Data Protection.

183

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The CNPD notes that Article 5 paragraph (1) of the bill suggests that the secretariat of the
Economic Committee is supposed to act as controller. Regarding the issue of
distinction between the secretariat of the Economic Affairs Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee itself, the Commission
national authority refers to its opinion of November 20, 2015. The same applies to the need for designation
of a data controller in the text of the bill. The amendments did not resolve this
problematic, but the CNPD still considers that the Economic Committee itself is responsible
of the treatment.

  b. The purposes of the processing of personal data and the nature and categories of data

treated

The CNPD notes on the one hand that Article 5 paragraph (1) of the bill now contains
a list of the data to which the secretariat of the Economic Committee will have access for the purposes of completing the
duties provided for by the bill. On the other hand, the amendments introduce with the last paragraph
of Article 5 paragraph (1) a very vague new wording for the controller. The fact that the
controller "may attach to the file the useful information and data provided to him
transmitted by the debtor or by a creditor (…)” means that the list of data collected
is not restrictive but can be extended freely. It is stated in the commentary of the article
5 paragraph (1) that the criteria cannot be defined with absolute precision because
the elements that may be relevant would be too numerous. The National Commission is nevertheless
of the opinion that this wording does not meet the requirements of precision and predictability to which
meet a legal text.

The CNPD joins the Council of State which, in its opinion of December 1, 2015, formally opposed the
provisions of the initial 1st paragraph of Article 5 because these provisions omitted "to specify how and according to
which criteria the Economic Committee determines the debtors whose data would be collected”. Even if the
authors of the amendments added to Article 5 paragraph (1) sub-paragraph 3 (new) that the secretariat of the Committee
of the economic situation considers "on the basis of objective and verifiable criteria" that there is a danger to the company, the CNPD
considers that i) this provision continues to create legal uncertainty and that ii) it does not allow the CNPD
to examine whether the data processed is relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are
are collected.

2) Amendment n° 7 concerning article 7 paragraph (2)

The National Commission approves this useful amendment because the right of access and the right of rectification of the
debtor are already covered by the new Article 5 paragraph (2) of the text under consideration.
 

184

52018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES 3) Amendment No. 15 concerning Article 16

The CNPD recommends aligning the terminology with that of the GDPR and replacing the terms “data
personal data” of article 16 paragraph 3 (new) by the terms “personal data” used by the
GDPR.

The CNPD has no other comments to make regarding the amendments submitted for opinion and
refers for the remainder to its opinion of 20 November 2015.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Commission for Data Protection,

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

185

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Law No. 7287 on the organization of the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) and
amending: 1. the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2. the amended law of 7 March 1980 on
the judicial organization; 3. the amended law of 12 November 2004 on the fight against
money laundering and against the financing of terrorism.

Deliberation n° 442/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter “the law of 2 August 2002”),
the National Commission for Data Protection has the particular mission of advising “all projects
or bills creating a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures or
administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter of April 19, 2018, the Minister of Justice invited the National Commission to make a decision at the
subject of bill n° 7287 - bill on the organization of the financial intelligence unit (FIU)
and amending: 1. the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2. the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization of the judiciary;
3. the amended law of 12 November 2004 on the fight against money laundering and the financing of
terrorism.

The National Data Protection Commission (CNPD or National Commission) makes the observations
below.

Draft article 74-1 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

With regard to the draft article 74-1 paragraph 2 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on the organization of the judiciary as well as
subsequent articles, it seems that the CRF will have to be considered - for the data processing foreseen by the
bill under opinion - as controller within the meaning of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection
criminal offences, investigation and prosecution thereof or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

The CNPD notes, however, that the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization does not define the notion of
administrative supervision whereas the first paragraph of article 74-1 provides that the FIU is established “under the
administrative supervision of the State Attorney General”.

186

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Draft article 74-5 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

Draft article 74-5 of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization provides in its first article
that “the FIU responds to reasoned requests for information made by the services and authorities competent in
in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. »

The CNPD considers that it is up to the legislator to list the competent services and authorities that can obtain
information under proposed article 74-5. Such clarification is necessary in particular to ensure compliance with
legality set out below in the context of article 74-6 paragraph (11) draft of the amended law of March 7
1980 on the judicial organization.

Draft article 74-6 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization

Draft article 74-6 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization of the judiciary provides that
“the FIU may agree with one or more foreign FIUs on an automatic or structured mode of exchange
information. »

In the absence of details, the CNPD understands this provision as allowing the FIU to agree on the
aspects such as forms or electronic exchange mechanisms to be used. It would not involve
therefore no exchange of data going beyond what is already provided for by the first paragraph
of the item.

Article 74-6 paragraph (8) draft of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

Draft article 74-6 paragraph (8) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization provides what
follows:

“The information and documents exchanged can only be used by the foreign FIU for the purposes of
which they were requested or provided. Any use of this information for purposes beyond
those initially approved are subject to the prior authorization of the FIU.”

The CNPD is skeptical of the use of personal data for purposes other than those for
which they were initially provided by the FIU, especially when the data was communicated to countries
third parties not members of the European Union. It is worth recalling on this subject a basic principle of the protection
data which is the principle of finality, principle according to which personal data must not
not be further processed in a manner incompatible with the purposes for which the data were
collected.

187

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT With regard specifically to the exchange of information to third-party States that are not
not bound by Directive 2015/849 and other European texts, it should be ensured that the authority
foreign recipient of the information is effectively aware of the fact that any use of the
information for purposes beyond those initially approved is subject to prior authorization
of the FRC.

Article 74-6 paragraph (11) draft of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

Draft article 74-6 paragraph (11) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization provides that
“the FIU, represented by its director, can negotiate and sign cooperation agreements. »

Without calling into question the conclusion of such cooperation agreements, the CNPD would like to point out whether such cooperation agreements
cooperation may regulate certain modalities, they may not provide for interference with the right to respect for
privacy beyond what is provided by law (or law-enforced treaties).

In this context, the National Commission would like to emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of legality
of the processing of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8, paragraph 2 of the
European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as article
52, paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights,
an interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2)
of the Convention only if it is based on a provision of national law which has certain characteristics.
The law must be “accessible to those affected and predictable in its impact”100. A ruler
is foreseeable “if it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – benefiting
appropriate assistance if necessary – to adapt his behavior”101. “The degree of precision required of
the “law” in this regard will depend on the subject in question. »102

100 CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

101 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para.

66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

102 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

188

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES At the national level, the CNPD wishes to recall in this regard the requirement of the Constitutional Court that “in
the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result from the law, including
the purposes, conditions and methods according to which less essential elements may be regulated by
regulations and decrees issued by the Grand Duke. »103

In order for the above-mentioned legality principle to be respected, the CNPD wonders whether it would not be appropriate to determine
in the text of the law what are the elements that can be regulated by the cooperation agreements.

Draft article 74-7 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

The new draft article 74-7 of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization provides in
its first paragraph that "as part of the exercise of its mission, the FIU has direct access to information
contained in bulletin 1 of the criminal record and in the databases referred to in article 48-24 of the Code of
penal procedure. »

For the CNPD, it is not clear whether this provision allows access to all the data contained in the
databases referred to in Article 48-24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or only to the data limiting
listed by the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 22 July 2008 implementing article 48-24 of the Code
criminal investigation and article 34-1 of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the Police and the General Inspectorate
of the Police.
 
The CNPD suggests either specifying that the data is the same as that to which certain civil servants
may access under Article 48-24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or to provide that a grand-
ducal must specify the data referred to in the first paragraph of Article 74-7.

Furthermore, the CNPD wonders whether the obligation to create log files provided for in Article 48-24
paragraph (4), letter (b), of the Code of Criminal Procedure is applicable to accesses made by the FIU pursuant to
proposed article 74-7.

Paragraph 3 of the same draft article 74-7 provides that “the FIU may access, on simple request, information
administrative and financial necessary to fulfill its missions, held by any other administration
public. »

The National Commission notes that the law does not define what constitutes administrative and financial information.

Would any information held by an administration in the exercise of these functions be considered
as administrative information?

103 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of March 20, 2015.

189

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Such widespread access to data held by administrations without prior judicial authorization
seems very problematic with regard to the principles of data minimization, necessity and proportionality.

The CNPD also notes that the text does not specify anything as to the form of the request and the response (in writing, by
electronics etc). If the text is maintained as it is, it would also be necessary to provide for the conservation of requests and
answers for a certain period of time, in order to be able to trace the author and the reason for the request a posteriori. That
is necessary in particular in order to be able to identify communications of data, if necessary, not justified.

Draft article 74-8 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization

The new draft article 74-8 of the amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization provides that “The
processing of personal data by the FIU is governed by article 8 of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to
data protection with regard to the processing of personal data. »

As mentioned in the commentary to the articles, the amended law of August 2, 2002 should be repealed shortly,
and it will be necessary to take into account the evolution of bills 7168 and 7184.

With regard to the substance of the reference to the aforementioned article 8, the CNPD would like to point out that the said article 8 does not contain
no substantive data protection rules, but merely refers generally to
the texts applicable to the processing of judicial data. In concrete terms, a specific piece of legislation
applicable to the processing of judicial data (article 74-8 drafted under opinion) refers to an article
of the general law (article 8 of the amended law of August 2, 2002) which in turn refers to the texts of specific laws
applicable to the processing of judicial data.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

190

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Second additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted in execution of the law of 5 July
2016 reorganizing the State Intelligence Service.

Deliberation n° 443/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002"), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as "the Commission
national” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all projects
or bills creating a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures or
administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated June 8, 2016, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to comment on the subject
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the procedures for processing personal data by the
State Intelligence Service, regulations to be adopted pursuant to the subsequent law of 5 July 2016 on
reorganization of the State Intelligence Service.

Subsequently, the CNPD issued its opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation adopted in execution of the future
law on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken into
execution of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the methods of processing of personal data by
the National Security Authority.104

By letter dated December 18, 2018, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to decide
regarding the amendments made to the aforementioned draft Grand-Ducal regulation. The CNPD has issued an opinion
relating to these amendments dated April 12, 2018.105

By letter dated June 19, 2018, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to make a decision at the
subject to the amendments made to the said draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

The National Data Protection Commission makes the following observations.

Amendment 1
 
The new Article 1 paragraph (2) point 6° of the draft regulation provides that processing may be
“data relating to events, objects, groups and natural or legal persons

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2016/SRE.html

104 Deliberation no. 639/2016 of July 13, 2016
 
105 Deliberation no. 244/2018 of April 12, 2018
 

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/20171/SRE.html

191

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD of interest for the exercise of the missions of the SRE obtained through the measures provided for in Article 5,
paragraph 2, of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service”.

The CNPD wonders if it would not be useful to regulate even more the data obtained through the
measures provided for in article 5, paragraph 2, of the amended law of 5 July 2016, in order to exclude any processing of
excessive data.

One can also, for example, ask what will be the treatment reserved for information relating to the membership
trade union or sexual life obtained through the measures provided for in Article 5, paragraph 2 of the law
amended on 5 July 2016. Data of this type are excluded by point 5° of article 1 paragraph (2) of the
draft regulations. But can they be stored under point 6° of the same article 1
subsection (2)?

Amendment 4

The new article 5 relating to log files now refers to “processing” instead of “access”. There
CNPD would like to point out that access to data is a form of data processing, as is the introduction
new data, modification or deletion of data.106 The “simple” access to data is therefore
a priori covered by Article 5.

Nevertheless, the CNPD wonders whether it would not be appropriate to specify that the provisions of the first paragraph
apply (in addition to access to data from databases specific to the SRE) also to access to the SRE,
by a computer system, to the processing of personal data of different administrations
pursuant to Article 10 paragraph (2) of the law of July 5, 2016 reorganizing the Service of
state intelligence.

Indeed, article 10 paragraph (3) of the law of July 5, 2016 providing for log files for the said
access does not set a retention period for these files. Moreover, this article does not specify whether the reason for
the consultation is recorded.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

106 Article 2 paragraph (1) point 2° of draft law no. 7168 as amended defines processing as “any operation or set of operations carried out or
not by means of automated processes applied to personal data or sets of personal data, such as the collection,
recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by
transmission, dissemination or any other form of making available, reconciliation or interconnection, limitation, erasure or destruction”.

192

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
No. 6961 on 1. creation of the National Security Authority and 2. modification 1) of the
amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security; 2) of the Penal Code.

Deliberation n° 444/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002"), the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as "the Commission
national” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all projects
or bills creating a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures or
administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated June 21, 2018, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to decide
concerning draft law n° 6961 on 1. creation of the National Security Authority and 2. modification 1)
the amended law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and security clearances; 2) from
Penal Code.

As a reminder, in a letter dated June 8, 2016, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the procedures for processing personal data
personnel by the National Security Authority, regulations to be adopted in execution of the law of 15 June 2004 relating to
parts classification and security clearances. The CNPD had notified the said draft grand-regulation
ducal dated July 13, 2016107.

Previously, in 2013, the CNPD had already issued an opinion on a draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken
pursuant to article 23 of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security.108

Amendment 21

The new draft article 28 (replacing the current article 22) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating
classification of exhibits and security clearances provides that, in "the investigation of
security or subsequent security investigations, the National Security Authority has direct access, through a
computer system”, to a number of public administration databases listed by
the said article.

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2016/SRE.html

107 Deliberation no. 639/2016 of July 13, 2016
 
108 Deliberation no. 274/2013 of June 28, 2013
 

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2013/sre.html

193

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD The National Commission is wondering whether, like other legal texts, it should not be specified which are
the data to which the ANS can access. Indeed, the data from the state databases to which the
members of the public prosecutor's office and the judicial administration as well as members of the Grand Ducal Police have access
are determined in detail by the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 22 July 2008 implementing article
48-24 of the Criminal Investigation Code and article 34-1 of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the Police and
the General Police Inspectorate.

The CNPD also considers it necessary to expressly provide for log files
which will relate to access by the ANS, via a computer system, to the processing of personal data
staff of different administrations in question. It should be remembered that there are similar provisions
prescribing log files for access to various state databases by magistrates
(article 48-24 paragraph (4), letter (b), of the Code of Criminal Procedure) or by members of the Grand Police
ducale (article 34-1, 4th paragraph, letter (b) of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the Police and the General Inspectorate
police)109.

The version of section 22 as provided by the initial unamended version of the bill under notice provided
moreover in its paragraph (5):

  “[…] the National Security Authority implements the technical means to guarantee the character

traceable to access.

To this end, the computer system through which the direct access is operated must be arranged so that:

a) the member of the National Security Authority cannot consult the processing of personal data
personnel referred to in paragraph 1 above only for a specific reason, indicating their numerical identifier
staff, and

b) the information consulted, the date and time of the consultation can be traced. »

To this provision, the CNPD would have proposed to add that the reason for the consultation must be able to be
traced (whereas in the unamended version of the bill, it was only provided that the information
consulted, the date and time of the consultation must be able to be traced) and she would have suggested planning a
5-year retention period for these log files.

It does not share the justification given in the motivation of the amendment according to which the deletion
of this provision would make it possible "to avoid duplication with the law of dd/mm/yyyy relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

109 Article 43 of the future law on the Grand Ducal Police.

194

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES national security matter which applies entirely to the processing of data collected for the purposes of this
text. »

Indeed, if the future law relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security provides certain principles which
must be respected in the processing of personal data, it in no way replaces
the specific laws dealing with the various processing of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as in matters
of national security.

Finally, the CNPD further notes that Article 28 paragraph (1) final paragraph of the amended law of 15 June
2004 provides, with regard to extracts from the criminal record, that “the ANS transmits on a quarterly basis the list of its
issuance requests and the reasons for these requests to the specific supervisory authority provided for in Article 17 of the
amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
staff ". She suggests adapting this article in the light of Bill No. 7168 on the protection of persons.
physical persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of
national security.

Amendment 22

The CNPD notes that the current article 23 of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of parts
and security clearances (hereinafter also the amended law of 15 June 2004), becoming Article 29 of the
same law following the modifications made by the amendments under opinion, no longer provides that the
processing of personal data by the National Security Authority (ANS) is subject to a regulation
grand-ducal. The draft Grand-Ducal regulation notified by the CNPD on 13 July 2016 would therefore become
not applicable.

The CNPD considers that the essential elements of the processing of personal data carried out by the ANS
should be determined by law and that certain details can be regulated by a Grand-Ducal regulation.

In this context, the National Commission would like to emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of legality
of the processing of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8, paragraph 2 of the
European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as article
52, paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

195

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD - be provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;

- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;

- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect rights and freedoms

of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights,
an interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2)
of the Convention only if it is based on a provision of national law which has certain characteristics.
The law must be “accessible to those affected and predictable in its impact”110. A ruler
is foreseeable “if it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – benefiting
appropriate assistance if necessary – to adapt his behavior”111. “The degree of precision required of
the “law” in this regard will depend on the subject in question. »112

At the national level, the National Commission wishes to recall in this respect the requirement of the Constitutional Court
according to which "in the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result
of the law, including the purposes, conditions and methods according to which less essential elements
may be governed by regulations and decrees issued by the Grand Duke”113.

In this case, the CNPD deplores in particular that no legal text sets a precise retention period for
the personal data processed by the ANS. Indeed, article 29 paragraph (3) proposed the modified law
of June 15, 2004 only provides that "the data relating to the security investigation are destroyed or erased
in accordance with the provisions of the law of dd/mm/yyyy relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security” without
make reference to a specific provision of this law also in draft.

The CNPD also notes that the bill does not include provisions relating to log files
with regard to access to data processed by the ANS, while the draft regulations previously submitted
to the CNPD for an opinion included provisions on this subject.

Furthermore, the CNPD notes that the text does not specify who decides which agents have access to data processing.
of data carried out by the ANS.

110 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

111 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para.

66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

112 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

113 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of March 20, 2015.

196

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES With regard to the categories of data processed, the text does not contain a list. However, the article
31 draft of the amended law of 15 June 2004 (article 24bis according to the numbering of the articles prior to the
amendments) will determine the “elements” to be “taken into consideration” during an investigation. The CNPD regrets
that the text does not give any precision on the origin of the data. It would be preferable for the text to make at least one
distinction between the data that the applicant for authorization must provide himself and those that are collected
from other state files or by other means of research.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

197

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
No. 7269 supplementing the Labor Code by creating an assistance activity
inclusion in employment for disabled employees and employees undergoing redeployment
external.

Deliberation n° 445/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32 paragraph (3) letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of
August 2, 2002” or “the law”), the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the
National Commission” or “the CNPD”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all
bills or proposals for the creation of a treatment as well as on all regulatory measures
or administrative documents issued on the basis of this law”.

By letter dated March 21, 2018, the Minister for Family and Integration invited the Commission
national government to decide on draft law no. 7269 supplementing the Labor Code by creating an activity
support for inclusion in employment for disabled employees and employees undergoing external reclassification (see
after “the bill”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill aims "to facilitate the integration, and above all the retention in employment of
people with the status of disabled employee or being in external reclassification, by creating an activity
referred to as “employment inclusion assistance” (hereinafter “assistance activity”). »

The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the bill having an impact
respect for privacy and the protection of personal data.

It welcomes the degree of detail with which the authors of the bill specify in the new article L.553-4,
paragraph (2) of the Labor Code the personal data that the assistance request form to
inclusion in employment established by the Employment Development Agency (hereinafter "ADEM") must contain.
The National Commission can accept that the categories of data processed are adequate, relevant and not
excessive in relation to the aims sought. Indeed, Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR specifies that the right
of the Member State to which the controller is subject may “contain specific provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of the regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the
processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people
concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes
for which they may be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations and

198

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those
provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX”.

Recital (41) clarifies in this context that a legal basis or legislative measure “should be clear
and precise and its application should be foreseeable for the litigants, in accordance with the case-law of the Court
of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights
the man. »

Furthermore, the National Commission would like to point out that the new Article L.553-4, paragraph (2) of the Code of
work provides for processing of special categories of personal data (data
so-called “sensitive”), in particular data concerning the health of the persons concerned such as the type
disability of the employee, respectively the incapacities of the employee in external reclassification. Besides the assumption
an explicit consent of the person (article 9 paragraph (2) letter a) of the GDPR), several situations
may legitimize processing of such special categories of personal data, by
especially health data. This is particularly the case when “the processing is necessary for reasons
of important public interest, on the basis of Union law or the law of a Member State which must be proportionate
to the objective pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for appropriate measures
and specific measures for safeguarding the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject” (Article 9
paragraph (2) letter g) of the GDPR).

Thus, the National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of processing
of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the Convention
European Court of Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, a
interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the

199

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD Convention, if it is based on an article of national law which has certain characteristics. The law must be
“accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions”114. A rule is foreseeable "if
it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – possibly benefiting from a
appropriate assistance – to adapt his behavior”115. “The degree of precision required of the “law” in this regard
will depend on the subject in question. »116

The principle of legal certainty, which constitutes one of the general principles of European Union law, requires
in particular in this context “that a regulation having adverse consequences with regard to
individuals is clear and precise and its application foreseeable for litigants. »117

Thus, taking into account the aforementioned principles of legality and legal certainty, the CNPD suggests to
authors of the bill under notice to specify in the body of the text the retention period of the data contained
in the help file. Indeed, Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (e) of the GDPR requires the controller to
processing to ensure that the data it processes are not kept for a period exceeding that
necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are collected and processed.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

114 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

115 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para.

66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

116 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

117 General Court of the European Union, judgment of 16 June 2011, Heineken Nederland BV and Heineken NV v Commission, T-240/07, ECLI:EU:T:2011:284, paragraph 383.

200

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the preliminary draft
Grand-Ducal regulation amending 1° the amended Grand-Ducal decree of 23
November 1955 regulating traffic on all public roads, 2° of
modified grand-ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 on the technical inspection of vehicles
vehicles and 3° of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating to the type-approval
and registration of road vehicles.

Deliberation n° 449/2018 of July 16, 2018

In accordance with article 32, paragraph (3), letter (e) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter “the law of 2 August 2002”),
the National Data Protection Commission (hereinafter “the CNPD” or “the Commission
Nationale”) has the particular mission of “being asked for its opinion on all bills or legislative proposals
creating a processing operation as well as on all regulatory or administrative measures issued on
basis of this law”.

By letter dated May 3, 2018, the Minister of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure
invited the National Commission to comment on the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation amending
1° of the amended Grand-Ducal decree of 23 November 1955 regulating traffic on all roads
public, 2° of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 on the technical inspection of vehicles
vehicles and 3° of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of
road vehicles (hereinafter: “the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to "simplify the administrative procedures
for the registration of road vehicles and their technical inspection by authorizing the use of the lane
electronic to check the validity of the required supporting documents through a computer interface
dedicated”. Such verification is compulsory for registering a vehicle (via the Société Nationale de la Circulation
automobile, hereinafter “the SNCA”) and for access to technical inspection with a technical inspection body
(currently via the National Society of Technical Control, hereinafter "the SNCT", or via the company DEKRA). THE
verifications are currently mainly done by visual inspection of paper documents. The draft of
Grand-Ducal regulation also aims to give insurance companies access to the technical data of a
private vehicle which are necessary to conclude a civil liability insurance contract.

The CNPD limits its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to the protection of data
personal character, raised by Articles 2 and 3 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, in that they
grant various organizations certain electronic access to personal data.

201

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD The CNPD recalls that Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter “the GDPR”) is applicable since
May 25, 2018. It is therefore necessary to analyze the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation in the light of the GDPR.

In general, the CNPD understands the objective of simplifying administrative procedures pursued
by the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation. It thus understands the need to set up new
mechanisms for verifying the supporting documents required for the purpose of registering a car or the
present to the technical control, since a manual check can pose certain problems in practice,
for example in the event of presentation of a false green card (difficult to verify by the inspection body
technical) or in case of omission, alteration or loss of the document. Furthermore, the CNPD understands on reading
documents submitted to it by the Minister of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure that the authors
of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation intend to regularize certain data exchange practices at
personal character that have been established, over the years, between certain actors in the field outside of a framework
legal or regulatory defined.

Nevertheless, the National Commission notes that the various accesses and exchanges of data set up by
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation could be clarified. Indeed, on reading the text, it is not always
clear to know which actor has access to which data, from which source and via which means. Furthermore, the
National Commission notes that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and the mutual exchanges of data
that it puts in place between actors from the public sector (SNCA, SNCT) and the private sector (DEKRA,
insurance companies) present certain risks from a privacy and data protection point of view.
personal character that should be regulated more strictly. Finally, she regrets that the preliminary draft regulation
Grand-Ducal does not contain provisions more clearly governing certain of the processing of data to
personal character created. The CNPD would therefore like to develop below the points that deserve to be clarified and
developed in the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, so that the fundamental principles to which
satisfy any processing of personal data are respected.

1) Preliminary remarks

The preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation sets up the exchange of personal data on several
levels. First of all, article 2, point 1° of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, which replaces article 5
of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 on the technical inspection of road vehicles, provides
that “for the purposes of verifying compliance with the conditions provided for in paragraph 1 [of Article 5], the inspection body
technical is authorized to electronically access the necessary data through an interface
provision by the State Information Technology Center, which transmits the information requested from the
insurance company covering the vehicle in question to the technical inspection body”. A first access

202

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES to data is therefore created: that of technical inspection bodies (currently, SNCT and DEKRA) to
data processed by insurance companies, via a computer interface set up by the CTIE.

Next, article 3 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, which introduces a new article 12bis in the regulation
of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of road vehicles, provides that
“For the purposes of verifying compliance with the requirements referred to in Article 10, the SNCA is authorized
to access data and perform automated queries in real time” and that “Companies
insurance are authorized to consult electronically through an interface made available by the
State Information Technology Center the technical data of road vehicles necessary for the
issuance of the insurance certificate referred to in Article 12”. Two other accesses are thus created: that of
the SNCA to certain data, certain aspects of which should be specified, on the one hand; and that of the companies
insurance to “technical data” via a computer interface set up by the CTIE, some of which
aspects should also be clarified, on the other hand.

On the very principle of the creation of access to the database of private sector actors by a private sector actor
public sector – and vice versa – the CNPD emphasizes the need to respect the principles of proportionality and
necessity, according to which any processing of personal data must be proportionate to the purposes to be
achieve, taking into account the risk that the processing poses to the privacy of the data subjects.

This is in fact to avoid a proliferation of access by an administration to the files of private companies (and vice-
versa), if such access does not appear proportionate and necessary in relation to the (public) interests
distinct that they pursue.

The National Commission understands that the access given to the SNCA and the technical inspection bodies
could make it possible to achieve the intended purpose, namely the simplification of administrative procedures in
for the registration of road vehicles and their technical inspection. The objective pursued by the access given
to insurance companies to the technical data of a particular vehicle is however not clear to the
reading of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and should therefore be clarified.

In any case, the objective pursued by the various accesses must be weighed against the right for the
data subjects to the protection of their privacy. This last element constitutes a fundamental right enshrined
in particular by Article 11 (3) of the Constitution, by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of
the European Union as well as by article 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms
fundamentals. It is therefore a question of verifying whether this balance of interests leans in favor of the fundamental right to
respect for privacy, which protects the interest of citizens, or in favor of the legitimate interest of the administration in the
simplification of its procedures, or even the purposes pursued by insurance companies (which should be
clarified), taking into account the test of proportionality and necessity.

203

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Furthermore, given the risks involved in creating such access for the protection of privacy and
personal data, the National Commission wishes to recall the requirement of the Constitutional Court
according to which "in the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result
of the law, including the purposes, conditions and methods according to which less essential elements
may be governed by regulations and decrees issued by the Grand Duke”118.

The Council of State also regularly recalls in its opinions that “(...) access to external files and the
communication of computer data to third parties constitutes an interference with privacy and therefore, in
under Article 11(3) of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. In this case, the main
of the normative framework must appear in the law.

The law must indicate the databases to which a public authority may have access or to which a public authority
public may have data communicated to it, as well as the purposes of this access or communication
(...)”119.

Therefore, the National Commission wonders whether the very principle of creating access to a database
data from private sector actors by a public sector actor – and vice versa – as well as the (precise) purposes
such access should not be provided for in a law. If applicable, some less essential elements
could be included in this preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

2) Determination of the role of the actors concerned

As indicated in the preliminary remarks above, several data processing operations
of a personal nature (more particularly access) are created by articles 2 and 3 of the preliminary draft of
grand-ducal regulation. These processing operations involve different actors, such as the SNCA,
the technical inspection bodies (SNCT, DEKRA), insurance companies and the CTIE.
 
According to the GDPR, the different parties involved in the processing of personal data can
have different qualities (for example, an actor can be qualified as controller, processor,
recipient, etc.) and these qualities determine their respective responsibilities and obligations. It is the "responsible
treatment” who is assigned the greatest number of responsibilities. Thus, it will for example be the guarantor
of the principles prescribed in Article 5 of the GDPR, he will be responsible for the information obligations of Articles 12 and
following GDPR, etc. The controller is “the natural or legal person, public authority,
service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the
treatment (…)”120. It should be noted that two or more data controllers may be "data controllers".
processing” when they jointly determine the purposes and means of processing121. The sub-
controller, meanwhile, is “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body

118 Judgment 117 of the Constitutional Court of 20 March 2015.
119 See for example: Council of State, Opinion no. 6975/5 of June 7, 2016 relating to the bill amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning financial assistance

state for higher education.

120 Article 4, 7) of the GDPR.
121 Article 26 GDPR.

204

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES which processes personal data on behalf of the controller”122. The qualification
of an actor as controller, processor, recipient or third party has important implications,
mainly in terms of obligations to be respected. It should be noted that the qualification of an actor is to be assessed
depending on the processing of personal data. Thus, an actor can for example be
considered as controller in the context of a particular processing and as processor in
under other treatment.

The preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, as it is currently drafted, does not make it possible to clearly understand
the quality, and thus the responsibilities, of the various actors involved in each of the processing of
data.

Within the framework of article 4, paragraph 7 of the amended law of 14 February 1955 concerning the regulation
traffic on all public roads, the National Commission understands for example that the Minister
having transport in its attributions acts as responsible for the processing of personal data
personnel processed in particular in the context of vehicle registration (the “national vehicle file
road”). By ensuring the management of this data, the SNCA acts as a subcontractor of the said Minister. There
Should the National Commission understand that these actors have similar qualities within the framework of the
this preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation? Is the CTIE also to be considered as a subcontractor?
What about insurers or technical control bodies?

3) Determination of processing purposes

According to Article 5.1 (b) of the GDPR, personal data must be “collected for
specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not to be further processed in a manner incompatible with
these purposes (…)”.

The National Commission welcomes the fact that the purpose of the processing established by Article 2, point 1° of the preliminary draft
of the Grand-Ducal Regulation, which modifies Article 5 of the amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 26 January 2016 on the
technical inspection of road vehicles, is indicated. Indeed, according to that article, the access of organisms
of technical control to the data of the insurance companies can only be done "for the purpose of verifying the
conditions provided for in the first paragraph.

The National Commission notes that the purpose of the first processing established by Article 3, point 2° of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation (i.e. the treatment established by the new article 12bis, paragraph 1
of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of vehicles
road) is also indicated. Thus, “the SNCA is authorized to access the data and to carry out
real-time automated queries “solely” for the purpose of verifying fulfillment of requirements

122 Article 4, 8) of the GDPR.

205

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT referred to in Article 10” of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating to the receipt and
registration of road vehicles.

On the other hand, the purpose of the second processing established by Article 3, point 2° of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation
(i.e. the processing established by the new article 12bis, paragraph 2 of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation
of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of road vehicles) is not clearly defined.
As indicated above, the National Commission recalls that in the absence of further explanations, it does not
does not grasp the real reasons for granting insurers access to the technical data of road vehicles
“when a new liability insurance contract is to be concluded”. Indeed, a priori, it amounts in principle
the insured to provide the insurer with all the data necessary for the conclusion of the insurance contract, if
where applicable, through the garage/concessionaire. The National Commission therefore considers it necessary
that the purpose is specified, in order to assess the necessity and proportionality of the data processing.

4) Origin of data and access to data

The National Commission notes that the origin of the data to which the various actors can access
is not always clearly defined and should be clarified.

In the case of the access established by article 2 of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation, which modifies article 5 of the
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 on the technical inspection of road vehicles, the Commission
national understands that the data comes from insurance company databases.

On the other hand, in the case of the first processing introduced by Article 3, point 2° of the draft Grand-
(i.e., the treatment established by the new article 12bis, paragraph 1 of the Grand-Ducal regulation
amended of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of road vehicles), the origin of the data
is not clear. It does not therefore appear from the text to which data the SNCA has access and from whom the SNCA obtains
those data.

Similarly, with regard to the second processing established by Article 3, point 2° of the preliminary draft Grand-
(i.e., the treatment established by the new article 12bis, paragraph 2 of the Grand-Ducal regulation
of 26 January 2016 relating to the approval and registration of road vehicles), the origin of the "data
techniques of road vehicles” is also not indicated.

Regarding the means of access, the National Commission also notes that it is specified in Articles 2 and
3, point 2°, last paragraph of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation that access will take place via an “interface
made available by the State Information Technology Center”. However, regarding access
created by Article 3, point 2° second paragraph of the preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation (i.e. the processing

206

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES introduced by the new article 12bis, paragraph 1 of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 January 2016 relating
at the reception and registration of road vehicles), it notes that the means of access is not specified.

5) Principle of data minimization

Article 5.1 c) of the GDPR states that personal data must be “adequate, relevant
and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (minimization of
data) ".

It follows from this principle that only the data necessary for the fulfillment of the purpose should be processed.
of the treatment. In other words, it is a question of not giving access to more data than is necessary,
respectively to the SNCA, the technical inspection bodies and the insurers, to fulfill the purpose for
which they are granted access.

The National Commission wishes to emphasize the importance of this principle. The manner in which the preliminary draft of the
Grand-Ducal regulation does not, however, allow it to fully assess whether this principle of minimizing
data will be respected in this case.

6) Data retention

The National Commission wishes to recall that, according to Article 5.1 (e) of the GDPR, personal data
must be "kept in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period
not exceeding that necessary with regard to the purposes for which they are processed (…)”.

In this case, it appears from the explanatory memorandum that the data that can be consulted via the computer interface would not be
not preserved.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 16, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

207

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
No. 7258 amending 1) the amended law of February 25, 1979 concerning aid
housing, 2) the amended law of 21 September 2006 on residential leases
and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code, and 3) the amended law of 16 December
2008 concerning the reception and integration of foreigners in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg,
and with regard to the Grand-Ducal regulation laying down the implementing measures relating to aid for
financing of rental guarantees provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of
the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance.

Deliberation n° 450/2018 of September 14, 2018

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the request addressed to it by the Minister of Housing dated March 22, 2018, the
National Commission intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the draft law
amendment 1) of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance, 2) of the amended law of 21
September 2006 on residential leases and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code, and 3) of the law
amended of 16 December 2008 concerning the reception and integration of foreigners in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg,
and related draft Grand-Ducal regulations, submitted to the Chamber of Deputies as a bill
No. 7258 dated March 7, 2018, and the following draft Grand-Ducal regulations:

- the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the implementing measures relating to assistance in financing guarantees
rentals provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning
housing assistance, and

- the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum criteria for health, hygiene, safety and
of habitability which must be met by the accommodation and rooms rented out or made available to
residential purposes.

208

52018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES The CNPD limits its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to data protection, raised
more particularly by Chapter I of the aforementioned bill, which amends the amended law of 25 February
1979 concerning housing assistance, and by the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the implementing measures
relating to aid for the financing of rental guarantees provided for in Articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of
the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance. She therefore does not intend to comment on the
subject of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum criteria of health, hygiene, safety and
of habitability which the accommodation and rooms rented out or made available to
residential purposes.

It emerges from the explanatory memorandum that one of the main objectives of the bill under subject is to align the
provisions relating to assistance in financing rental guarantees to those relating to the rent subsidy. THE
aforementioned draft Grand-Ducal regulation intends to specify the implementing measures relating to aid for
financing of rental guarantees.

The National Commission recalls in this regard that it issued two opinions relating to the law of 9 December
2015 introducing a rent subsidy and modifying various provisions, dated
July 21, 2014 (parliamentary document no. 6542/06) and July 2, 2015 (parliamentary document
6542/11).

Insofar as Chapter I of the bill under consideration intends more specifically to align the
chapter 2quater (articles 14quater-1 to 14quater-6) of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning aid
housing, on the provisions of chapter 2quinquies (articles 14quinquies to 14septies) of the same law,
introduced by the law of 9 December 2015 introducing a rent subsidy, it intends to refer to
its aforementioned opinions.

Admittedly, unlike the said law, the bill under consideration does not provide for the exchange of data between the Ministry
housing and other ministries or administrations. It follows that the risks in terms of protection of the
privacy and personal data do not appear as high as in the solution adopted in
on rent subsidies. However, the bill under consideration implicitly results in the creation of a
new processing of personal data for the management and administrative follow-up of files
applicants for assistance with the financing of a rental guarantee. In this context, the services of the minister having the
housing in its attributions will be required to process personal data for the purposes of the instruction
a request for assistance in financing a rental guarantee.

However, any legal basis serving as the basis for the processing of personal data referred to in Article 6,
paragraph (1), point (c) or (e) of the GDPR, must be accompanied by appropriate safeguards for the protection
Datas. In particular, according to paragraph (3) of the same article:

209

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD “(…) the purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
the public authority vested in the controller (…)”.

In order to comply with this obligation, the authors of the said bill could take the example of article
14sexies of the law of December 9, 2015 from which arises the creation of a personal data file by
the Ministry of Housing for the purposes of examining a request for a rent subsidy or in the event of a review
of the file (this article also provides for access by the manager or managers of the file of the Ministry of Housing to
certain files of other administrations, which is not provided for in the current text of the bill).

Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR further provides that “(…) this legal basis may contain provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation, among others: the general conditions
governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing;
the people concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated
and the purposes for which they may be used; purpose limitation; retention periods; and the
processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as
than those provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX [of the GDPR]
(…)”.

In accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the National Commission therefore recommends that the conditions,
criteria and methods of data processing implemented by the Ministry of Housing for the management
and the administrative follow-up of the files of applicants for assistance with the financing of a rental guarantee are specified
in a legislative or regulatory measure, for example in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the
implementing measures relating to aid for the financing of rental guarantees provided for in articles 14quater-1
and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance. The authors of this project
grand-ducal regulation could be inspired by the grand-ducal regulation of 9 December 2015 setting the conditions
and terms and conditions for granting the rent subsidy provided for by the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning financial assistance
housing, on which the CNPD had also expressed its opinion in its opinion of July 2, 2015 (document
No. 6542/11).

It is true that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination already provides implicitly in its article 2 for
categories of data that could be processed by the Ministry of Housing for the purposes of the instruction or
re-examination of a request for assistance in financing a rental guarantee, as well as their origin. The CNPD regrets
however, the wording of subsection (2) of this section 2 (“The applicant shall, upon request of the Minister, provide
all information and documents necessary for the examination of his request"), which does not seem to conform to the
principle of foreseeability to which any legal or regulatory text must comply, and also leaves the risk
that the data subject is obliged to transmit more personal data in

210

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES depending on his particular situation, or even on the personal assessment of the ministry official who would have to
process his request (situation which would be likely to contravene the principle of equality before the law, devoted to
article 10bis of the Constitution).

In this case, the National Commission is unable to assess whether the principle of data minimization,
that only data that is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary can be collected
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed (cf. Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (c) of the GDPR) would be
respected. However, pursuant to the aforementioned Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR and the principle of legal certainty, the CNPD
is of the opinion that it is up to the legislator to implement and concretely apply the principle of minimization
data, otherwise the law would not meet the requirement of precision and predictability that a
legal text according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights123.

Furthermore, the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under subject could provide for the same reasons
provisions relating to the retention of the data referred to in Article 2 by the departments of the Minister having
housing in its attributions as well as concerning the security and confidentiality of data (a system of
access logging (also called an audit trail or “audit trail”) could for example be provided in order to
guard against the risk of abuse or misuse of purpose).

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on September 14, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Francois Thill
Substitute member

123 See in particular Cour Eur. D.H., Libert v. France, 22 February 2018, paragraph 43.

211

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum content of the individual patient file
hospital and the discharge clinical summary.

Deliberation n° 481/2018 of October 19, 2018

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. Article 7 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for Data Protection
(hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of
of Article 57 of the GDPR.

By letter dated June 8, 2018, the Minister of Health invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum content of the patient's individual file
hospital and the clinical discharge summary (hereinafter “the draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, this draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to standardize the content of the individual file
of the hospital patient (hereafter: “the hospital file”), as well as the clinical discharge summary. Indeed, the article
37 of the law of 8 March 2018 relating to hospital establishments and hospital planning provides for the
in place of said hospital file which is supposed to retrace, chronologically and faithfully, the patient's state of health
and its evolution during treatment. The article in question specifies that “the minimum content of the file
individual of the hospital patient and of the clinical discharge summary is determined by Grand-Ducal regulation, the opinion of
the National Commission for Data Protection having been requested. »

The National Commission notes with satisfaction that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under review specifies the
content of the hospital file, a text whose adoption had already been planned under the repealed law
of 28 August 1998 on hospital establishments124, as well as in Article 15 paragraph (1) paragraph 2 of the
amended law of 24 July 2014 on the rights and obligations of patients125 (hereinafter: “the amended law of 24
July 2014”). The said article also provides that the Grand-Ducal regulation should also set "the format, the
codifications, standards and norms to be used in order to ensure interoperability, to facilitate the maintenance of databases
standardized common data, dashboards, and allow using anonymization techniques
retention and retrieval of data relating to the operation, performance and management of the system

124 Former article 36, paragraph 8 of the amended law of 28 August 1998 on hospital establishments provided the following: “A grand-ducal regulation may establish
a standard model of the file and the clinical summary. This law was repealed by the law of March 8, 2018 relating to hospital establishments and planning
hospital.

125 Said paragraph provides as follows: “The minimum content of the patient file kept by the different categories of health professionals as well as its elements are

determined by Grand-Ducal regulation, the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission having been requested. »

212

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES as well as for statistical, research and continuous improvement purposes. » The CNPD regrets that the project
of the Grand-Ducal implementing regulations under review does not contain any details in this regard.

As the provisions of the amended law of 24 July 2014 also apply to hospital records126, the
National Commission would also like to refer to its opinion adopted on 28 October 2011 on the predicted law127.
The said law regulates, among other things, access to the patient file by the patient himself, by the various professionals
involved in his care, as well as by his heirs in the event of his death. The presentation
of the reasons for the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under specific advice in this context that the general principles
applicable to patient records set out in the amended law of 24 July 2014 "apply both to the content and
to the data of the individual file of the hospital patient than to those of the individual file of the patient in the
extra-hospital. »

The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
relating to privacy and the protection of personal data. She proposes to follow
the drafting order of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation within the framework of its observations.

Ad article 1: Scope

Article 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that a hospital file is created for “each
stay or care of a patient in inpatient or day hospitalization in a hospital”.
Even if the commentary on the articles specifies in this context that outpatient treatment in hospital
(of “consultations, examinations or procedures calling on the hospital technical platform without being
associated with inpatient or day hospitalization”) are excluded from the scope of the text under
examination, it would be useful to insert a definition of the term “support” in the body of the text. As such, the
CNPD recalls that it had already raised in its opinion issued on April 5, 2018 concerning the draft regulation
Grand Ducal State specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the shared care file128 the need to
define this concept.

In addition, the National Commission understands that a hospital file will be created by each hospital
per patient treated and that there will be no interconnection or access to patient hospital records
other hospitals. However, the explanatory memorandum to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifies the following:
": It is a question of giving the file all its usefulness, in order to promote its use as a communication tool
between the multiple stakeholders in the care process and, where appropriate, beyond a single institution
hospitable […]”. If a healthcare professional, working in a hospital establishment separate from that
having initially cared for the patient, intervenes later in the care, does the system
planned would allow him direct electronic access to the hospital file of this patient, even if this
file was created by another hospital?

126 Article 37 paragraph (2) of the law of 8 March 2018 on hospital establishments and hospital planning provides the following: “Without prejudice
specific provisions of this law and its implementing regulations, the provisions of the law of 24 July 2014 relating to the rights and obligations of the
patient apply to the individual file of the hospital patient. »

127 Deliberation no. 357/2011 of October 28, 2011.
128 Deliberation no. 242/2018 of April 5, 2018, p.18.

213

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Article 15 paragraph (3) of the amended law of 24 July 2014 specifies in this respect that if “several professionals
of health, doctor or non-doctor, intervene in the care of the same patient and have recourse to a
patient file used in a shared way, they are exempted from keeping their own patient file up to date to record
or submit elements or information already validly documented. […]” However, this article is not sufficient
in order to regulate a possible access to the same hospital file of a patient by different health professionals
working on behalf of separate hospitals. If this access is a hypothesis envisaged by
the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the National Commission considers that the terms and conditions
access should be specifically detailed in the body of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

The CNPD wonders in this context how article 37 paragraph (2) of the law of March 8, 2018 relating to
to hospital establishments and hospital planning and article 15 paragraph (3) of the amended law
of July 24, 2014 will be articulated with the legal provisions relating to the shared care file and is concerned
any inconsistencies or uncertainties that may result.

Ad article 2: Identification of the patient

Paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion provides that the
healthcare professionals or administrative staff must ensure the unambiguous identification of a patient when
of his admission "according to the procedures adopted by the hospital". However, for reasons of legal certainty and in order to
to establish a uniform system for all Luxembourg hospitals, the National Commission is of the opinion
that the text of the Grand-Ducal regulation should specify this more than vague wording.

Indeed, to the knowledge of the CNPD, hospitals have access to the national register of persons
individuals, instituted by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of individuals, à la carte
of identity, to the municipal registers of natural persons, in order to uniquely identify patients
residing in Luxembourg. Alongside this reliable identification process, the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
does it plan to leave hospitals the choice of using other identification procedures, if necessary?
applicable, less reliable? The text under opinion therefore deserves to be clarified on this subject.

Finally, according to paragraph (3) of the article under examination, the general manager of the hospital is to
consider as responsible for the processing of the data of the hospital file. Nevertheless, in his
aforementioned opinion of October 28, 2011 concerning the amended law of July 24, 2014, the CNPD concluded
what are “jointly responsible for the medical file the doctors who supply the medical component and the
hospital establishments under the responsibility of its medical director. 129 This is all the more true for
doctors who exercise their profession on a liberal basis, together with an activity under agreement at a hospital.
Thus, it recommends to the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to take into account the notion of
“joint liability” introduced by the GDPR in article 26. The said article requires in its 1st paragraph

129 Deliberation no. 357/2011 of October 28, 2011.

214

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES that “joint controllers define their obligations in a transparent manner
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the requirements of this Regulation, in particular as regards
the exercise of the rights of the person concerned, and their respective obligations with regard to the communication
information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, by agreement between them, unless and to the extent that
their respective obligations are defined by Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the
controllers are subject. » The same recommendation has already been issued by the CNPD within the framework
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the care file
shared.130

Ad article 3: Content of the individual hospital patient file

Paragraph 1 of article 3 refers to appendix 1 of the draft grand-ducal regulation with regard to the content
minimum of the hospital record. In general, the National Commission commends the degree of detail with which
the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion specify the personal data that the
hospital record must contain.

The said paragraph specifies that this file "includes at least the elements described in appendix 1", while
that the appendix itself is entitled “minimum content of the individual hospital patient file”.
As mentioned above, article 37 of the law of 8 March 2018 relating to hospital establishments and the
hospital planning provides that the “minimum content of the individual file of the hospital patient and the
clinical discharge summary is determined by Grand-Ducal regulation […]. ” It appears that the list provided for in
Annex 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is not to be considered exhaustive and that other data
than those provided for therein could appear in the hospital file. Nevertheless, the National Commission wonders
whether the different hospitals could decide, at their discretion, to add other personal data in the
hospital record. It wishes to emphasize in this context the importance of the principle of data minimization.
provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR requiring that personal data must
be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed. »

With regard more specifically to patient data from medical imaging, the Commission
national authority would like to point out that through amendments adopted by the Committee on Health, Equality of
Chances and Sports dated July 4, 2018 in the context of Bill No. 7172131, the section relating
to the creation of an electronic radiological notebook has been deleted. Indeed, the Parliamentary Commission in
in charge of the bill considered “that the purpose of the project for an electronic radiological logbook, launched within the framework
of the Cancer Plan, was to reduce the exposure of the population to ionizing radiation of medical origin by avoiding,
thanks to the information contained in the electronic radiological notebook, redundant imaging examinations
medicine and nuclear medicine that are not necessary and useful for the management of the patient.

130 Deliberation no. 242/2018 of April 5, 2018, p. 6 and 7.
131 New title of July 5, 2018: Bill 1. relating to the health protection of persons against the dangers resulting from exposure to radiation
radiation sources and the safety of ionizing radiation sources against malicious acts; 2. relating to the management of radioactive waste, the transport of
radioactive materials and import; 3. amending the amended law of 21 November 1980 on the organization of the Health Department.

215

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT However, through other ongoing projects, the main objectives of the radiological notebook can also be achieved.
Thus, access to reports of medical imaging examinations, images and doses is provided through
the shared care record.

In this context, the Federation of Luxembourg Hospitals (FHL) has launched the Anim.lu project, a
pooling of medical imaging archiving, in order to facilitate the management of the retention policy
medical images and to better control the evolution of long-term costs in this area.

To avoid the proliferation of applications with partially similar purposes, it was decided to stop
the electronic radiological notebook project. This decision thus also follows the opinion of the Council of State, which notes
redundancy of resources in relation to the shared care file. »132

Thus, the National Commission wonders whether the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation voluntarily
omitted to mention in the section of medical and care data provided for in Appendix 1 of the draft regulation
Grand-Ducal, letter C, data relating to medical imaging in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of the Commission for
Health, Equal Opportunities and Sports, or if, on the other hand, these are included in point 9 of the said
heading for “medical opinions from doctors, reports of multidisciplinary consultation meetings in
oncology, as well as the medical acts carried out during the stay, dated and validated by their healthcare provider”.
The National Commission suggests that the authors clarify this in the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
under review.

Ad article 4: Accessibility of the file and regularization of registrations

The National Commission would like to point out that under Article 32 of the GDPR, the person responsible for the
processing must implement the appropriate measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the
risk. It is also of the opinion that the protection of the confidentiality and security of personal data
personnel constitutes a major issue in the event of the processing of sensitive data (health data) in the
disclosure of such data could cause serious harm to patients. These risks
may increase with the increased use of certain new technologies by health professionals who
could for example use mobile devices (tablets) to access the hospital records of their
patients.

Furthermore, the CNPD considers it necessary to explicitly provide for an access logging system, which
constitutes an appropriate guarantee against the risk of abuse. Thus, like other major laws or regulations
ducal authorities, it would be appropriate to add a provision which could have the following content: “Access to the files
hospital must be designed and implemented in such a way that the information relating to the person who performed the
the consultation, the information consulted, the date, time and reference of the file in the context of which the

132 Amendments adopted within the framework of bill no. 7172 by the Commission for Health, Equal Opportunities and Sports on July 4, 2018, p.69.

216

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES consultation has been carried out, so that the precise reason for the consultation can be traced. The data of
logging must be kept for a period of five years from their recording, period after
which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure”.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on October 19, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Hemmerling
Substitute member

217

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the bill
n° 7217 instituting a Register of beneficial owners and carrying 1° transposition of
provisions of Article 30 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 20 May 2015 relating to the prevention of the use of the financial system for
purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/
of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC,
as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of May 30, 2018; 2° modification of the amended law of 19 December 2002 concerning the
trade and companies register as well as accounting and annual accounts
enterprises and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of
13/01/2019 establishing a Register of beneficial owners.

Deliberation n° 486/2018 of November 22, 2018

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the request addressed to him by the Minister of Justice dated December 6, 2017,
the National Commission intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the draft law
n° 7217 instituting a Register of beneficial owners and carrying 1° transposition of the provisions of article 30
of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, modifying
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of
European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC, as amended by Directive
(EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018; 2° modification of the amended law of
19 December 2002 concerning the register of commerce and companies as well as accounting and accounts
companies' annual reports (hereinafter "the draft law").

218

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill intends to adapt Luxembourg legislation to the requirements
international standards on the transparency of legal persons which derive from Article 30 of the Directive
(EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of
financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, modifying the
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of
European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (hereinafter the “Directive
2015/849").

The bill aims to establish a central register of beneficial owners whose mission is to
retention and provision of information on the beneficial owners of legal persons.

By letters of July 3, 2018 and October 4, 2018, the Minister of Justice seized the CNPD
so that it decides on the government amendments to the bill under subject as well as on
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of xx/xx/2018 establishing a Register of
beneficial owners (hereinafter “the draft Grand-Ducal regulation”). The first set of amendments
aims to integrate into the text of the bill, the changes made to Directive 2015/849 by the
Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU)
2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering
or financing of terrorism as well as Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EC (hereinafter “Directive
2018/843”).

The second series of amendments of October 4, 2018 aims to integrate the comments of the Council of State.

According to the general comments of the government amendments, "the main development is
the opening to the general public of access to said register, without having to justify a legitimate interest. 133 Indeed,
while Directive 2015/849 and the initial draft law provided for public access to the register, this
access was limited to persons who could demonstrate a legitimate interest. Anxious to want to contribute "to preserving
trust in the integrity of commercial transactions and the financial system”134, Directive 2018/843
opens access to the register of beneficial owners to the general public, “without condition of residence or interest
specific”135.

The opinion of the National Commission takes into account government amendments and refers to the numbering
articles of the coordinated text.

Having already been consulted by the Ministry of Justice at the stage of the draft law in question, the Commission
national limits itself to making the following observations.

133 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. No. 7217/09 page 2.
134 Directive 2018/843, recital 30.
135 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. No. 7217/09 page 4.

219

2018 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT I. Roles and responsibilities

The CNPD notes that the Minister responsible for Justice should be considered responsible
processing (Article 5, paragraph 1 of the draft law). The manager, namely the “Luxembourg Business
Registers”, would have the status of processor (Article 5, paragraph 2 of the bill). The bill further clarifies
that the manager is not responsible for the content of the information entered (Article 5, paragraph 4), but that he
may, when entering information, refuse a file as part of the verification of the declaration and
supporting documents (article 7, paragraph 1 of the bill). Furthermore, in the context of a declaration,
the supporting documents would allow “the manager to check that the information whose registration and
modifications are requested correspond well to the parts in question”136.

Like the Council of State, the CNPD considers that these provisions are contradictory. Indeed, “[s]he verifies
the consistency of the information given with the supporting documents, the manager of the register of beneficiaries
staff is responsible for the content of the information it records”137.

Furthermore, it follows from Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (d) of the GDPR, that the controller must ensure that
that the data processed is accurate and, if necessary, kept up to date. The controller would be as soon as
responsible for the correctness of the data processed, including the entry of the data following the verification
the concordance between the data to be entered and the supporting documents.

In view of the above, it is important to resolve the contradiction between these articles and to clearly attribute the
responsibility for the accuracy of the data contained in the register.

II. Registered entities

The CNPD questions the inclusion of certain organizations on the list of entities that must transmit the
information on the beneficial owners in the register (article 1, point 4 of the draft law), for example the
non-profit associations or public institutions of the State and municipalities (Article 1, points
7 and 11 of the amended law of 19 December 2002 concerning the register of commerce and companies as well as
accounting and annual company accounts). She wonders in particular which people would be
considered to be beneficial owners and what data would be transmitted to the registry.

III. Data kept by registered entities

Beneficial ownership data, which must be obtained and maintained by registered entities,
are the information indicated in article 3 of the bill as well as supporting documents. These informations
must be accurate, adequate and current.

136 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. 7217/00, p. 13.
137 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. 7217/10, p. 6.

220

5ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPDANNEXES This information must be provided to the competent authorities and professionals on request
under the conditions provided for by the bill (articles 18 and 19 of the bill). It should be remembered
that national authorities may only request information in the context of fulfilling
their specific missions and skills in the fight against money laundering and the financing
of terrorism.

IV. The data in the register

It appears from the draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that the data processed by the manager in
the framework of the management of the register include, at least, the data appearing on the applications for registration
in progress, accepted and refused, the current data recorded in the register and the historical data and the
vouchers. However, the bill does not contain a provision providing for all the data
processed by the manager. However, according to Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the GDPR, only adequate data,
relevant and necessary with regard to the purposes pursued by the controller must be collected
(data minimization principle). The CNPD therefore proposes to indicate in a single article a list
exhaustive data will be processed by the manager. She still wonders about the “historical data”
and suggests clarifying this notion.

In addition, Article 4, paragraph 3 of the draft law stipulates that the request for registration of information includes
the supporting documents which would be specified by a Grand-Ducal regulation. Section 5 of the draft regulation
Grand Ducal annexed to the amendments of 4 October 2018 specifies that these are (a) “official documents allowing
to establish the identity of the beneficial owners, accompanied by a translation in French, German or
Luxembourgish if the official documents are not drawn up in Latin characters”, (b) “where applicable, of the
limitation request” and (c) “if applicable, a document certifying that the company is listed on a
regulated…”. The CNPD questions the necessity and proportionality of the transmission of an identity document
to the manager and the custody of the documents by the latter.

Indeed, Directive 2015/849 makes no mention of supporting documents in the context of the information
contained in the register. Furthermore, as mentioned above, the bill provides for an obligation to obtain and
retention of information relating to beneficial owners for registered entities and an obligation
to transmit this information to the national authorities.

The CNPD is therefore wondering whether it is necessary for the supporting documents to be kept within the
register, whereas such a conversation would imply not only a multiplication of copies of documents,
but also a centralization of personal data relating to a large number of people
concerned.

221

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT In this regard, it recalls the importance of the principle of data minimization as well as the principle of proportionality
and of necessity, according to which any processing of personal data must be proportionate to the purposes to be
achieve, taking into account the risk that the processing poses to the privacy of the data subjects.

In order to minimize the processing of data within the framework of this bill and given that the documents
supporting documents must be kept by the registered entities, the CNPD therefore suggests deleting from the project
of law the obligation for registered entities to provide supporting documents with the application and the obligation
for the manager to keep these documents.

The CNPD also notes that neither the notion of "effective interests held", nor that of "the extent of the effective interests
detainees” are defined in the bill. In order to clearly define the information that must be kept
and thus respect the principle of data minimization, it therefore agrees with the opinion of the Council of State and
recommends clarifying these notions.

Finally, in accordance with the principle of data minimization and to reduce the impact of the registry
public for the persons concerned, the CNPD still recommends following the recommendation of recital
34 of Directive 2018/843 which specifies that “[t]he registers should clearly show whether the manager
principal has been identified as the beneficial owner only ex officio and not because he holds a
holding or otherwise exercises control. ".
 
V. Access to data contained in the register

  To. Access by the general public

It emerges from Article 12 of the draft law that “access to the information referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, points
1° to 8°, 12° and 13° is open to any person", namely the surname and first name(s), nationality(ies),
the day, month and year of birth, the place and country of birth as well as the nature and extent of the interests
staff held.

According to article 30, paragraph 5, subparagraph 2 of Directive 2015/849, as amended by Directive
2018/843, the only data to which the public should have access are the name, month and year of
birth, nationality, country of residence and the nature and extent of the beneficial interests held.
Paragraph 3 of that article allows Member States to provide access to additional information, such as
as "the date of birth or contact details" of the beneficial owners. As a result, the authors
availed of this possibility by allowing the general public to have access, in addition to the information provided for in
Article 30, paragraph 5, subparagraph 2 of Directive 2015/849, on the day and place of birth of the beneficiaries
workforce.

138 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. No. 7217/10 page 5.

222

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Making this additional information available to the general public would be justified, according to the commentary
articles, through the technical and organizational measures of the register. Indeed, as professionals
would have access to the data referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, points 1° to 8° and 12° to 13°, it would be difficult
for the manager to distinguish between access by professionals and by the general public in the event of a request
of access139.

However, Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the GDPR prescribes that only adequate, relevant and
necessary for the purposes pursued by the controller must be processed. Moreover,
according to Article 25, paragraph 2 of the GDPR, the controller must “implement the measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only personal data
personnel that are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed” (protection
default data). It is therefore important to limit the information available to the public to what is strictly necessary.
from the design of the treatment. A limitation of this information would contribute to the protection of the data of the
data subjects contained in the register and would coincide with recital 34 of Directive 2018/843,
according to which “a fair balance should, in particular, be sought between the interest of the general public in the prevention
money laundering and terrorist financing and the fundamental rights of the persons concerned.
The set of data to be made available to the public should be limited, clearly defined and
exhaustive, and be general in nature, so as to minimize the harm likely to be caused to the
beneficial owners”.

Taking the above into account, the CNPD therefore considers it necessary to delete the day of birth and the
place of birth of the beneficial owners from the list of information to which the general public will have access.

  b. Terms of access and research

Article 30, paragraph 5a of Directive 2015/849, as amended by Directive 2018/843, specifies that
Member States have the possibility “… to condition the provision of the information stored in
the national registers referred to in paragraph 3 to online registration and payment of a fee…”.

Article 13, paragraph 2 of the bill, in the version resulting from the government amendments of 4
October 2018, specifies that “The computer system, through which access to the Register of beneficial owners
of the authorities referred to in Article 11 is operated, must be arranged so that access to the files is secure
through strong authentication, that the information relating to the person who carried out the consultation,
the information consulted, the date, time and reference of the file in the context of which the consultation took place
been carried out, as well as the precise reason for the consultation can be traced. Logging data
must be kept for a period of five years from their registration, after which they are
erased. »

139 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. No. 7217/09, page 4.

223

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Article 13, paragraph 1 of the amended bill leaves it to Grand-Ducal regulations to regulate the
procedures for accessing the register and search criteria.

The draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation create separate regimes for consultation by
national authorities, on the one hand, and by the general public and obliged entities, on the other.

 

 

i. National authorities

Article 8, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifies that the request for access must come from
of the head of the authority and that the terms of access must be set out in an agreement signed between
authority and manager. However, as the Council of State specified in its opinion of June 7, 2016 on the draft
law amending the law of 24 July 2014 concerning state financial aid for higher education,
“access to external files and the communication of computer data to third parties constitutes interference
in private life and therefore, by virtue of Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, a matter reserved for the
formal law”140. The essential elements141, the objectives and the principles142, including in particular the methods of access,
must therefore be included in the law.

 

 

ii. Obliged entities and the general public

It appears from the draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that consultation of the register would not be subject
online registration and that the security measures described in section 13 of the bill would not apply
not within the framework of the consultation of the register by the general public and by the obliged entities.

The CNPD also notes that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation establishes the principle of free consultation
of the register (article 7) by submitting only the request for an extract or a certificate to the payment of the costs
administrative (Article 9). According to the commentary of the articles, the gratuity is explained by "the transparency that it intends
create. A paid consultation could indeed be perceived as a barrier to consultation. »143

The CNPD regrets the choice of the authors not to submit access to the register by obliged entities and the
general public to these security measures. Indeed, if the opening of this register to the general public would be justified, according to
recital 30 of Directive 2018/843, among other things, by the fact that “public access to information on
beneficial owners allows increased control of information by civil society, in particular the press
or civil society organizations, and helps maintain trust in the integrity of transactions
trade and the financial system”, it is nevertheless important to find a fair balance “between the interest of the
general public to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and fundamental rights
data subjects” (recital 34).

140 Opinion of the Council of State of June 7, 2016 on draft law no. 6975 amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning state financial aid for studies

higher, p. 4.

141 Judgment of the Constitutional Court - Judgments n° 00132 and 00133 of March 2, 2018.
142 Opinion No. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the Ermesinde high school.

143 Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, page 8.

224

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES This opening of the register to the general public should therefore be offset by safeguards that the Member States
could put in place “with the aim of ensuring a proportionate and balanced approach and guaranteeing the rights
respect for privacy and the protection of personal data”, such as, for example, the requirement
online registration and payment of a fee, as well as the implementation of personal tracing
having consulted the register (recital 36 of Directive 2018/843).

The CNPD considers that these measures represent essential safeguards to frame the opening of the register
to the general public with data protection legislation and to contribute to the balance between
the legitimate objective of the fight against money laundering and the fundamental rights of the persons concerned.

The tracing of persons who have consulted the register is also justified in order to meet the rights of persons
concerned (the beneficial owners) conferred on them by the GDPR, namely the right to information (article
12 to 14 GDPR) and the right of access (Article 15 GDPR). Indeed, these rights guarantee people
concerned to be informed about the recipients of their data, respectively to have access to the information
relating to recipients. In this regard, reference is again made to the comments made in point VII of this opinion.

The CNPD points out in this regard that other Member States have deemed it appropriate to make access to the register subject to
payment of administrative costs (e.g. Belgium). Finally, it recalls the opinion of the Council of State, according to
which "the operating costs of this register should not rest exclusively on the registered entity
and that the persons having access to this register pursuant to Article 13 also contribute to these costs of
functioning ".

As mentioned above, the safeguards proposed by Directive 2018/843, namely online registration,
the requirement of the payment of administrative costs and the tracing of the people who carried out the consultations
could prevent misuse of this new transparency tool. The CNPD therefore considers it necessary
to submit any access to the register, whether by national authorities, by obliged entities or by the
general public, under the conditions set out in paragraph 2 of article 13 of the draft law.

  vs. Limitation of access to the register

Article 15 of the bill provides for the possibility for registered entities or beneficial owners to
request the restriction of access to the data contained in the register and describes the procedure to be followed. In order to
to make a decision, the manager will consult the public prosecutor and the Grand Ducal police144. The CNPD
wonders whether the manager would be required to transmit data to the public prosecutor and how
this transmission as part of its verification of the consistency between the applicant's assertions and the
data held by public prosecutors and police for criminal purposes? Furthermore, in order to provide an answer to the
manager, would the public prosecutor or the police pass on data they process to the manager?

144 Bill no. 7217, doc. speak. No. 7217/14, page 14.

225

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD For the sake of legal certainty, the CNPD considers it necessary to regulate this cooperation between the authorities,
in particular by specifying whether the general regime of the GDPR and the amended law of 1 August 2018 organizing
the National Data Protection Commission and the general data protection regime
or if the specific regime of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in matters of national security145
applies to this exchange of information.

Moreover, as this is a matter reserved for the law, it is necessary to establish the essential elements of this cooperation.
in the law.

VI. The length of the conversation

According to article 10 of the draft law, the information concerning the beneficial owners is kept within
from the register for five years after the date of the removal of the registered entity from the Register of Commerce and
Companies. The government amendments of October 4, 2018 specify that the supporting documents would be
retained for five years. The CNPD recalls that the persons concerned would have the possibility of exercising
their rights as long as their data is processed.

Notwithstanding its recommendation to remove the obligation for registered entities to transmit documents
supporting documents in the register and in the event that this obligation is maintained in the bill, the CNPD considers
necessary to specify the date from which the retention period of five years begins to run.

In addition, the CNPD wonders about the retention of data relating to data subjects who cease
to be beneficial owners of the registered entities.

According to paragraph 4 of article 8 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the national authorities would have access to the
recorded and historical information, excluding supporting documents. According to the commentary of the articles of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation, access to this information would be necessary in the context of criminal trials in order to
to be able to trace the beneficial owners of a company146. If the so-called "historical" data would not be
available to the public and obliged entities, national authorities would have access to them. The CNPD
therefore wonders about the retention period of this data. Indeed, neither the bill nor the draft regulation
Grand-Ducal do not indicate the retention period of the data of the persons concerned who cease to be
beneficial owners.

However, in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (e) of the GDPR, the data must be stored under a
form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary for the
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed.

145 Law transposing Directive (EU) No 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to
the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations and
proceedings in this regard or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

146 Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, page 8.

226

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Therefore, in order to limit the impact that the retention of data could have for the persons concerned
and to comply with the principles of data minimization and retention limitation, the CNPD considers
necessary to limit the length of time that historical data will be retained and can be accessed
and again to limit the authorities that can access historical data to the only national authorities listed
to letters (a) to (d) of point 5 of article 1 of the bill.

Furthermore, what would be the retention period of the data obtained and retained by the entities
registered? For the sake of legal certainty, the draft law should be clarified in this respect.

VII. The rights of data subjects

As regards the person responsible for processing the register of beneficial owners, namely the minister having
Justice in its attributions, it will collect the data indirectly and must, therefore, in principle
provide all the information provided for in Article 14 of the GDPR within the deadlines provided for in Article 14, paragraph
3 GDPR. Pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 5, letter (c) of the GDPR, the controller is exempted from
this obligation, if the obtaining or communication is provided for by law, which must provide for “appropriate measures
to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject”. Recital 38 of Directive 2018/843
specifies that "natural persons whose personal data are kept in registers
nationals as beneficial owners should be informed accordingly”.

Taking into account the publication of the data contained in the register and in order to protect the legitimate interests
data subjects, the CNPD considers it necessary to provide, like Article 21, paragraph 2 of the decree
Belgian Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 relating to the operating methods of the register of beneficial owners, that
the manager should inform each natural person individually of his entry in the register.
Data subjects should also receive the other information specified in Article 14, including
in particular information relating to their rights, as well as the procedures applicable to the exercise of these rights,
in accordance with recital 38 of Directive 2018/843. This information should take place within a month
of registration147.

It should also be emphasized that registered entities, which collect data directly from
of the beneficial owners, have the obligation to provide them with the information set out in Article 13 of the
GDPR.

For information, the CNPD also recalls that the exercise by data subjects of their rights, such as
the rights of access, rectification and erasure, is free of charge and that the persons concerned can exercise
these rights with each of the data controllers processing their data, including the minister having
Justice in its attributions through the manager148. It should also be mentioned that under the law

147 Commission for the protection of privacy, opinion no. 43/2018 of 23 May 2018 relating to a royal decree relating to the operating procedures of the register of

beneficial owners (CO-A-2018-031), page 8.

148 GDPR, article 12, paragraph 5.

227

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT access, data subjects will be able to know the source of the data contained in the register (article
15, paragraph 1, letter (g) of the GDPR). Thus, in the event that the register contains inaccurate data, the
data subject may ask where this data comes from.

Recital 38 of Directive 2018/843 further specifies that Member States may, "in order to prevent
misuse of information contained in the registers and to rebalance the rights of beneficiaries
beneficiaries, make available to the beneficial owner information relating to the applicant as well as the database
legal for his claim.

According to Article 13, paragraph 3 of the draft law, as amended by the government amendments of
October 4, 2018, “no information on a consultation of the data by an authority referred to in article 11
may be communicated to registered entities or beneficial owners. The manager ensures that the
consultation of registry data is carried out without alerting the registered entity concerned or its beneficiaries
workforce. »

The CNPD considers that the measures proposed in recital 38 of Directive 2018/843 would constitute
safeguards for the data subjects and would contribute to the protection of their rights to privacy
and data protection. These measures would still be in accordance with Article 25, paragraph 1 of the GDPR,
which stipulates that the data controller must implement, from the design of a processing operation and during
processing, appropriate technical and organizational measures, which are intended to implement the
principles relating to data protection in an effective manner and to provide the processing with the necessary safeguards
in order to meet the requirements of this Regulation and to protect the rights of the data subject.

In order to offer appropriate guarantees to the persons concerned and to allow the tracing of the consultations of the
data contained therein and the legal basis of the consultation, the National Commission deems it necessary, as
of its Belgian counterparts and in accordance with the foregoing recital of Directive 2018/843, to complete the
text of the bill in order to provide explicitly for the possibility for data subjects to know
all authorities, bodies and persons who have, during the past six months, consulted or updated their
data with the exception of the administrative and judicial authorities responsible for the investigation and repression of
fight against money laundering.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on November 22, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
effective member

Christopher Buschman
effective member

Francois Thill
Substitute member

149 Commission for the protection of privacy, opinion no. 43/2018 of 23 May 2018 relating to a royal decree relating to the operating procedures of the register of

beneficial owners (CO-A-2018-031), page 4.

228

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 1 August 2018 on the declaration
compulsory treatment of certain illnesses and repeal of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 10
September 2004 designating infectious or transmissible diseases subject to
mandatory declaration.

Deliberation n° 489/2018 of December 7, 2018

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. Article 7 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for Data Protection
(hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of
of Article 57 of the GDPR.

By letter dated October 12, 2018, the Minister of Health invited the National Commission to decide
on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of
certain diseases and repeal of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 10 September 2004 designating diseases
infectious or transmissible substances subject to compulsory declaration (hereinafter “the draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).

It appears from the commentary to the articles that this draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to meet the requirements
formulated in Article 2, paragraph (2), in Article 3 paragraph (1), in Article 5 paragraph (2), in Article 7
paragraph (3), as well as in Article 10 paragraph (2), paragraph 2 and paragraph (3) of the law of 1 August 2018 on
the compulsory notification of certain diseases in the context of the protection of public health (hereinafter: “the
law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory declaration of certain diseases”).

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation under review is more specifically intended to draw up a list of diseases
notifiable diseases and diseases presenting a serious threat to public health, as well as the deadline
within which the declaration must be made to the Director of Health or his delegate (hereinafter referred to as
“the health authority”) by doctors, dentists and managers of analytical laboratories
(article 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation taken on the basis of article 2, paragraph (2), of article 3
paragraph (1) and Article 5 paragraph (2) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of certain
diseases).

229

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under review aims on the one hand to establish a list of diseases for
which the isolated strain or the biological material is to be transferred by the medical analysis laboratory after
establishment of the diagnosis at the national reference laboratory, without a specific request by the health authority,
as well as the related deadlines, as provided for in Article 7 paragraph (3) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the
mandatory notification of certain diseases. On the other hand, the article in question determines the bacterial strains,
viral or parasitic diseases for which a national reference laboratory may be designated (as provided for by
Article 10 paragraph (3) of the law in question). Finally, Article 10 paragraph (2), paragraph 2 of the said law as regards
to him leaves it to the Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion to provide a model of a specification aimed at carrying out
the call for applications by the Minister in charge of Health to designate a national laboratory for
reference.

Articles 3 and 4 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory declaration of certain diseases indicate which
personal data the declarations of such illnesses by doctors, dentists and
medical analysis laboratories for the health authority must include.

As a reminder, on 10 May 2017150 the National Commission issued an opinion on draft law no. 7160
on the mandatory notification of certain diseases in the context of public health protection
(hereinafter “the bill”)151, which became the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of certain
diseases. In the said opinion, the CNPD paid particular attention to the use of personal data
without the implementation of irreversible data anonymization measures, the lack of details as to the
security measures and the retention period of personal data, as well as the obligation to
respect the right to information of the persons concerned. In view of the current content of the law of 1 August 2018 on
compulsory notification of certain diseases, the National Commission notes that it has unfortunately not
not been followed by the legislator in the majority of its recommendations.

The National Commission therefore takes the opportunity to reiterate certain observations relating to compliance with the
privacy and the protection of personal data in the context of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
under opinions which also concern the law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory declaration of certain diseases. By
elsewhere, as its aforementioned opinion of May 10, 2017 was issued on the basis of the former law of August 2, 2002 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data,152 it wishes to add certain
observations based specifically on the GDPR.

1. As to the basis of legitimacy for the creation of a centralized infectious disease system

According to the explanatory memorandum to bill no. 7160, said bill makes it possible to "improve the monitoring
infectious diseases in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and to consolidate data relating to infectious diseases
infections in a centralized system. The presentation goes on to say that in order to avoid double notification and

150 Deliberation No. 401/2017 of May 10, 2017.
151 New full title of 8 May 2018: “Draft law on the compulsory declaration of certain diseases in the context of the protection of public health and
amending: 1. the amended law of 29 April 1983 concerning the exercise of the professions of doctor, dentist and veterinary doctor; 2. the amended law
of 16 July 1984 relating to medical analysis laboratories; 3. the amended law of 16 January 1990 relating to medical devices; 4. the amended law of 8
June 1999 relating to the Medical College; 5. the law of dd/mm/yyyy on the conditions of hygiene and sanitation relating to the practice of tattooing techniques by
breaking the skin, piercing, branding, cutting, as well as UV tanning”.

152 Said law was repealed by the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the

Data protection.

230

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES allow the investigation of epidemics or alerts, “the declarations must be nominative, but the confidentiality
and the security of the processing of personal data must be strictly guaranteed by all the actors
involved. Indeed and as mentioned above, the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of certain
diseases, which is the result of bill no. 7160, contains in its articles 3 and 4 a list of personal data
personal as disease declarations by doctors, dentists and analytical laboratories
medical documents intended for the health authority must include "at least". It is more particularly the
surname, first name, address, date of birth, sex, medical diagnosis of the patient, as well as for declarations
carried out by doctors and dentists of the date of the first symptoms and diagnosis, of the country where
the disease was contracted and, if applicable, the source of infection. Declarations from analysis laboratories
also contain the date and origin of the sampling of the patient's analyses.

It should be noted in this context that Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph
(1) letters (c) and (e), provides for a particular constraint related to the lawfulness of a data processing necessary for the
compliance with a legal obligation or the performance of a task in the public interest or relating to the exercise of authority
public authority vested in the controller. In these two cases, the basis and the purposes of the
data processing must specifically be provided for either by European Union law or by the law
of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

With specific regard to the processing of special categories of personal data, the
recital (54) of the GDPR recognizes situations in which the processing of special categories of
personal data (so-called "sensitive" data) "may be necessary for reasons of interest
public in the fields of public health, without the consent of the person concerned. Such treatment
should be the subject of appropriate and specific measures in order to protect the rights and freedoms of persons
physical”.

Indeed, in addition to the assumption of explicit consent of the person (article 9 paragraph (2) letter a) of the GDPR),
several situations may legitimize processing of special categories of personal data
personal, in particular health data. This is particularly the case when “the processing is necessary
for reasons of public interest in the field of public health, such as protection against threats
serious cross-border cases affecting health, or for the purpose of guaranteeing high standards of quality and safety of
healthcare and medicinal products or medical devices, on the basis of Union or State law
member which provides for appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the person
concerned, in particular professional secrecy” (Article 9 paragraph (2) letter i) of the GDPR).

The National Commission considers that the data processing implemented in the context of the creation of the
centralized system for infectious diseases (hereinafter: "the centralized system") fall within the grounds of interest
in the field of public health referred to in Article 9 paragraph (2) letter i) of the GDPR, provided that

231

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD national law provides for it and that this legislation provides for such “appropriate and specific measures for the
safeguarding the rights and freedoms of the data subject”.

Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR further specifies that the “legal basis may contain specific provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of the Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the
processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people
concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes
for which they may be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations and
processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those
provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX”.

Recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or to the law of a Member State
determine the purpose of the processing. In addition, this right could specify the general conditions of this
regulations governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the specifications aimed at
determine the data controller, the type of personal data being processed, the
data subjects, the entities to which the personal data may be communicated, the
purpose limitations, storage period and other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing.
[…]”

Recital (41) further states that "such legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and
precise and its application should be foreseeable for the litigants, in accordance with the case-law of the Court
of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights
the man. »

Thus, the National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of processing
of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the Convention
European Court of Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;

232

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES - effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, a
interference with the right to respect for private life is “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) of
the Convention only if it is based on an article of national law which has certain characteristics. The law must
be “accessible to those affected and predictable in its impact”. A rule is foreseeable "if
it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – possibly benefiting from a
appropriate assistance – to adapt their behavior”. “The degree of precision required of the “law” in this respect
will depend on the subject in question. »

At the national level, the National Commission wishes to recall in this respect the requirement of the Constitutional Court
according to which "in the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result
of the law, including the purposes, conditions and methods according to which less essential elements
may be governed by regulations and orders issued by the Grand Duke. »

The Council of State also regularly recalls in its opinions that “(…) access to external files and the
communication of computer data to third parties constitutes an interference with privacy and therefore, in
under Article 11(3) of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. In this case, the main
of the normative framework must appear in the law.

The law must indicate the databases to which a public authority may have access or to which a public authority
public may have data communicated to it, as well as the purposes of this access or communication
(…). »

The CNPD can therefore only welcome that the Luxembourg State has taken the decision to comply with the requirements
developed above by legislating on the matter. If we therefore refer to Article 9 paragraph (2) letter i) of the GDPR
as a condition of lawfulness, it is necessary to verify whether Luxembourg law provides for "appropriate and
specific to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject” as required by the GDPR. Gold,
as the CNPD was not followed in the context of its opinion of 10 May 2017 issued within the framework of the project
of Law No. 7160 mentioned above, it wishes to emphasize once again in this opinion which provisions should
appear in a legal text (grand-ducal law or regulation), therefore a priori in the draft grand-ducal regulation
under notice.

2. Regarding the personal data intended to be included in the centralized system

As a preliminary point, the National Commission would like to point out that it has found that neither the law of 1 August 2018 on
the compulsory declaration of certain diseases, nor the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion do not take

233

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD position on the identity of the person responsible for processing the data contained in the centralized system,
which is defined in Article 4 point 7) of the GDPR as the “natural or legal person, public authority,
the service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment. However, as already mentioned in its opinion of 10 May 2017, the CNPD considers
that it is implicit in the aforementioned legal texts that the health authority is to be considered as
controller, provided that doctors, dentists and analysis laboratories
are solely responsible for indirectly feeding the centralized system through their declarations,
but that they do not have direct access to the data contained in the said system. With regard to the treatment
of data provided for in Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination (transfer of strain or material
biology by the medical analysis laboratory to the national reference laboratory), the National Commission
wonders if the national reference laboratory will act as a subcontractor153 of the health authority or
if, on the other hand, said laboratory will assume the role of responsible for the specific treatment of the samples
biological?

Furthermore, it should be noted that article 2 of bill no. 7160 on the mandatory declaration of certain
diseases in the context of public health protection had initially planned to indicate in the declarations
for certain diseases marked with an asterisk in the initial version of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under
notice only the initials of the patient. The Grand-Ducal regulation of 10 September 2004 designating the
infectious or communicable diseases subject to compulsory declaration, which will be repealed by the Grand-
which will result from this project, already contained in its article 2 a similar provision which had the tenor
following: “Diseases marked with an asterisk (*) are reported anonymously by the initial letters
first name, surname and gender, followed by year of birth. »

However, by amendments adopted on March 7, 2018 by the Committee on Health, Gender Equality
Chances and Sports, this provision has been deleted “in order to avoid any form of stigmatization. Thus, the
declaration is made with personal data, allowing the health authority to rule out all duplicates. »154
The CNPD cannot follow this reasoning. Indeed, pseudonymization is an appropriate guarantee in terms of
data protection and privacy. The fact of reporting illnesses by name, on the contrary,
has the effect of stigmatizing people with this or that disease. Already in its opinion of 10 May 2017, the
CNPD wondered whether the use of patients' personal data to eliminate duplicates is really
proportionate and necessary taking into account the other data already available to the health authority. The Commission
therefore wishes to reiterate that in “the absence of justification for the systematic collection of surnames, first names
and refers patients for illnesses not marked with an asterisk in the draft regulations
grand-ducal and given the significant risk represented by the association of these identification data with
sensitive data concerning the health of individuals, the CNPD considers it necessary that the collection of data
identification of patients is limited to their initials, which would also harmonize the system for collecting
all cases of notifiable diseases. It also considers, with regard to diseases not

153 See Article 4 point 8) of the GDPR for the definition of processor “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body which processes

personal data on behalf of the controller. »

154 See the amendments adopted on 7 March 2018 by the Commission for Health, Equal Opportunities and Sports within the framework of the bill

no. 7160 on the compulsory notification of certain diseases in the context of the protection of public health.

234

5ANNUAL REPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES marked with an asterisk in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, that the systematic transmission of the address
of the patient is irrelevant. »

Articles 3 and 4 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory notification of certain diseases contain
nevertheless a list of personal data that the mandatory declaration of certain diseases by the
doctors, dentists and medical analysis laboratories for the health authority must
include "at least". It follows that the said list is not to be considered exhaustive and that other
data than those provided for therein could appear in the declaration. The National Commission wonders whether as soon as
when the various actors (doctors, dentists and medical analysis laboratories) could decide,
at their option, to supplement their declarations with other personal data. She would like to point out in
In this context the importance of the principle of data minimization provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the
GDPR requiring personal data to be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”, which does not seem to be respected in this case
by the aforementioned law.

Finally, the National Commission considers that under Article 32 of the GDPR, it is up to the health authority
to guarantee a particularly high level of security, particularly with regard to the confidentiality of
data of the persons concerned. As raised in its opinion of May 10, 2017 and in the absence of details
concerning the technical and organizational measures put in place in the legal texts in question, the
National Commission is still not in a position to assess whether the proposed system meets the requirements of
security of the data processed. It is of the opinion that, given the extreme sensitivity of the data collected, measures
irreversible anonymization of data, after a certain period, should be put in place in order to guarantee a
better protection of individuals with regard to their personal data. The CNPD had noted in
its aforementioned opinion that it “could understand the need to pseudonymize the data, as a first step,
in order to be able to re-identify a patient in the event of a particular need related to the monitoring and follow-up of diseases
mandatory declaration. » The pseudonymization of data is indeed one of the security measures listed
in article 32 letter a) of the GDPR.

The CNPD considers it essential to provide in this regard for an obligation to pseudonymize, then to anonymize the data,
like the data management procedure provided for by the French public health code, which is very
more protective of the privacy of the persons concerned than that currently provided for by the legal texts
Luxembourgish. Indeed, the system provided for in France is such that the notifications of serious illnesses contain a
anonymity number established by irreversible computer coding from the first three letters of the surname, first name,
date of birth and sex of the person and it is the declarant himself or the doctor of the regional health agency
appointed by the general manager of the agency who establishes the correspondence between the anonymity number and the elements
of the person's identity. The latter must ensure the conservation of the said list of correspondence, for the purposes
validation and exercise of the right of access, under conditions guaranteeing the confidentiality of the information.155

155 Article R3113-2, Paragraph (1) point 2° and R3113-3, paragraph 2 of the French Public Health Code.

235

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Pursuant to Article R3113-2, paragraph (2) of the French Public Health Code, Ministerial Orders
responsible for health must set for each disease, among others and according to the needs of findings
and follow-up, "the period, of a maximum duration of five years from the date of notification, during which
the correspondence, mentioned in article R. 3113-3, between the anonymity number and the elements
of the person's identity. At the end of this same period, the doctor from the National Public Health Agency
deletes from the file the contact details of the prescriber and, where applicable, those of the person in charge of the
biology or laboratory. »

3. Regarding the processing of genetic data

Unlike the previous European legal text, Directive 95/46 of October 24, 1995,156 the GDPR contains a
definition of “genetic data”. Indeed, its article 4 point 13) provides that genetic data are
“personal data relating to the hereditary or acquired genetic characteristics of a person
physical that provide unique information about the physiology or health status of that natural person
and which result, in particular, from an analysis of a biological sample of the natural person in question. »

Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination refers to Annex B which establishes a list of pathogens
whose strain or biological material is to be transferred by the medical analysis laboratory to the laboratory
national reference after the patient's diagnosis has been established without a specific request from the health authority.
Even if the said article does not specify whether the sending of these biological samples must be accompanied by other
personal data of the patient in question, such as his surname, first name and address, the Commission
national assumes that this is indeed the case. The various laboratories therefore process data
genetics; particularly intimate and potentially discriminatory data requiring increased protection.
As mentioned under "point 2. As for the personal data intended to be included in the system
centralised”, the National Commission recommends that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify
in this context the role of the national reference laboratory, i.e. to indicate whether the latter acts as a
subcontractor of the health authority, as controller, or if the notion of "responsibility
joint” introduced by Article 26 of the GDPR should be taken into account.

The CNPD would like to point out that personal data can only be collected for
"specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not further processed in a manner incompatible
with these purposes” (Article 5 paragraph (1) letter b) of the GDPR). She wonders in particular what are
exactly the purposes pursued by the aforementioned processing of genetic data. Does the goal of
this transfer of data to the national reference laboratory aims to guarantee better patient care
in question by analyzing his samples to find the medical follow-up best suited to his illness? Or is it
said laboratory uses the data for further scientific research purposes? In the latter case, we hold
it should be noted that Articles 63 to 65 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission

156 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data

of a personal nature and the free movement of such data.

236

5ANNUALREPORT2018 CNPDANNEXES for data protection and the general data protection regime contain conditions
specific rules to be observed by a data controller when processing personal data for the purposes
of scientific research.

Finally, the National Commission wonders whether the national reference laboratories will use a
trusted third party who will ensure the pseudonymization of personal data, therefore samples
biological stored there. Indeed, the use of a trusted third-party organization, separate from the organization handling
the data and who alone would be able to establish the link between persons and data concerning them, is
considered as an additional guarantee of respect for the privacy of individuals and the protection of their
personal data.

4. Regarding the rights of data subjects and the duration of data retention
 
Chapter III of the GDPR grants certain rights to the persons concerned by the processing of personal data
personnel, while its Article 23 provides for the possibility for the European Union or for the Member States to
limit by means of legislative measures the scope of the obligations and of the said rights in order to guarantee, for example,
important objectives of general public interest in the fields of public health and social security. THE
paragraph (2) of Article 23 of the GDPR contains a minimum list of provisions that such a legislative measure
limitation must contain, such as the purposes of the processing and the categories of data concerned. Gold,
based on our reading of the text, the Luxembourg legislator has not planned to limit the rights of persons
concerned in the matter regulated by the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of certain
diseases and by the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion, and as a result, the persons concerned by the
processing of personal data provided therein fully enjoy all the rights provided for in
articles 12 to 22 of the GDPR.

Said persons have the right to receive certain information from the controller,
either when the data in question is obtained directly from the person, or in the case
where the data is not collected from the data subject, at the latest when the data
are communicated for the first time to another recipient. Thus, when the health authority
obtains in its capacity as controller of the declarations of doctors, dentists and
medical analysis laboratories that contain personal data of the patients in question,
said authority is obliged to inform patients, inter alia, of the purposes of the processing, the categories of
data processed or on the source from which the data in question comes. The CNPD had also
added in its opinion of May 10, 2017, that in addition to the information obligation imposed on the health authority,
"the doctor or the laboratory who reports a notifiable disease must inform the persons
concerned, and this at the time of the announcement of the diagnosis or at the time that he will judge, in conscience, the most
timely. »

237

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT Furthermore, the CNPD would like to point out that Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (e) of the GDPR requires the
controller to ensure that the data it processes are not kept for a period
exceeding that necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are collected and processed. But neither the
law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory notification of certain diseases, nor the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
under notice do not contain a specific provision as to the retention period of one side of the personal data
personnel contained in the centralized system and on the other hand biological samples stored in the laboratory
national reference. In its opinion of 10 May 2017, it has already raised the need to provide for the provisions
regarding the retention period of data in a legal text. It therefore considers it absolutely necessary to
specify the data retention period in this draft Grand-Ducal regulation. The National Commission
would like to refer in this context to its considerations under “point 2. As regards personal data
intended to appear in the centralized system” concerning the system set up in France.

5. Regarding accessibility to the centralized system and the implementation of appropriate security measures

The National Commission wishes to recall first of all that under Article 32 of the GDPR, the controller
must implement the appropriate measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk. She is by
elsewhere of the opinion that the protection of the security and in particular of the confidentiality of personal data
constitutes a major challenge in the event of the processing of sensitive data (health data / genetic data) in
to the extent that disclosure of such data could cause serious harm to patients. These risks can
increase with the increased use of certain new technologies by health professionals who could
for example using mobile devices (tablets) to access their patient records, as well as to
send declarations to the health authority. It wishes to insist on the need to provide security measures
to the state of the art and in accordance with article 32 of the GDPR, in order to protect the identity of patients, while allowing a
surveillance and effective follow-up in the event of declared infectious diseases. As raised under point “2. As
personal data intended to be included in the centralized system", it insists that measures of
pseudonymization with subsequent irreversible anonymization are implemented.

In this context, the National Commission recommends the use of a trusted third party, separate from the body
processing the data and who alone would be able to establish the link between people and the data concerning them,
who will ensure the pseudonymization of personal data. The use of a trusted third party is
considered as an additional guarantee of respect for the privacy of individuals and the protection of their
personal data. The CNPD is therefore of the opinion that an obligation to put in place security measures
appropriate as mentioned above is absolutely necessary in this regard, especially since the risk in the event of
of external computer attack is particularly high if nominative health data is recorded
in a centralized system.

It also noted that Article 5 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of certain
illnesses leaves the possibility to the various actors to send the declarations in question, among others, by telefax.

238

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Nevertheless, the National Commission is of the opinion that telefax is not a priori a means of communication
secure with regard to the state of the art to transmit highly sensitive personal data. Like the
fax are often located at the secretariat of an institution, this can lead to disclosure to recipients not
entitled to information covered by medical secrecy and thus seriously infringing the privacy of life
private to people. Thus, the National Commission considers, on the basis of recommendations issued by its
French counterpart, the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL),157 that the health authority
must put in place adequate security measures, such as verifying that the telefax is located in
a physically controlled room accessible only to medical and paramedical personnel and that the impression
of a message is subject to the introduction of a personal access code. It should be noted in this context
that French legislation authorizes the transmission of notifications of serious illnesses only by
by post in a confidential envelope marked "medical secret" or by electronic transmission after encryption of the
data.158

Furthermore, the CNPD recommends that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify who will have within
of the health authority access to the data contained in the centralized system, as well as the methods of access to the
data contained therein. Indeed, it is important that only people who need it in the exercise of their
function and their professional duties are entitled to have access to it. In this same context, the CNPD
asks where the data contained in the centralized system will be stored. Does this data remain
on the servers of the Ministry of Health or will they be stored on the servers of a subcontractor who
is, if applicable, established outside the European Union? She asks the same question in the context of
biological samples. Are these kept at the national reference laboratory or is a
transfer to a biobank infrastructure is planned?

Finally, the CNPD considers it necessary to explicitly provide for an access logging system, which
constitutes an appropriate guarantee against the risk of abuse. Thus, like other major laws or regulations
authorities, it would be appropriate to add a provision which could have the following content: “Access to the system
centralized must be designed and implemented in such a way that the information relating to the person who carried out the
the consultation, the information consulted, the date, time and reference of the file in the context of which the
consultation has been carried out, so that the precise reason for the consultation can be traced. The data of
logging must be kept for a period of five years from their recording, period after
which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure”.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on December 7, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Josiane Pauly
Substitute member

157 CNIL, “Health data, electronic messaging and fax”, 1 December 2015, available at: https://www.cnil.fr/fr/donnees-de-sante-messagerie-electronique-

and-fax.

158 Article R3113-3, paragraph 1 of the French public health code.

239

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the draft
Law No. 7126 on municipal administrative sanctions amending 1) the Code
Criminal Code, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the amended municipal law of 13
December 1988.

Deliberation n° 490/2018 of December 7, 2018

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (e) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter "the GDPR"), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the request sent to it by the Minister of the Interior on May 2, 2018, the Commission
intends to present below its reflections and comments on the draft law relating to sanctions
municipal administrative authorities amending 1) the Penal Code, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the municipal law
amended on December 13, 1988, submitted to the Chamber of Deputies as bill no. 7126 dated December 4
April 2017 (hereinafter “the bill”).

The main objective of the bill is to meet “the need for municipalities to have an instrument
making it possible to fight against petty crime, acts of vandalism and other incivilities that criminal law and
the repressive bodies no longer make it possible to contain them effectively (…)”159.

For its part, the National Commission intends to limit its observations to the questions raised by the provisions
of the bill under examination dealing with aspects related to respect for private life and data protection at
personal character.

I) Article 7 of the bill: access of the sanctioning official to the national register of natural persons

According to article 7 of the draft law, the sanctioning official has access “to the data relevant to this purpose” of the
national register of natural persons in the exercise of its powers. The CNPD agrees
of the legislator that the sanctioning official should have access only to the relevant data in

159 cf. Explanatory memorandum, page 1, fifth paragraph.

240

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES within the framework of the exercise of its powers, i.e. to the data mentioned in the sanctions file
municipal administrative authorities, and not to other data included in the national register of persons
physical (such as, for example, data concerning the family of the data subject).

II) Articles 18 and 19 and article 10 of the bill: Registers of municipal administrative sanctions

Articles 18 and 19 of the project provide for the creation of three files with differences relating to the creator
of the file. Article 18 of the bill provides that the sanctioning official keeps a “file of offenses
whose findings are transmitted to it” and article 19 of the bill provides that the municipalities and the Police
ducale keep an "administrative sanctions file".

According to article 18 of the bill, the file of the sanctioning official contains i) the surname, first name, date of
birth, habitual residence and, where applicable, the identification number of the persons who are the subject of the
finding, ii) the nature of the acts committed, and iii) the penalties imposed.

According to article 19 of the bill, the Grand Ducal Police file contains i) the surname, first name, date of birth,
habitual residence and, where applicable, the identification number of the persons who are the subject of the report, and ii)
the nature of the acts committed. And the municipalities file contains i) the surname, first name, date of birth, residence
usual and, where applicable, the identification number of the persons who are the subject of the report, ii) the nature of the
facts committed, and iii) the date of transmission of the finding to the sanctioning official.

As a result, the sanctioning official's file is the only file to contain both the offense and the sanction.
inflicted. On the other hand, article 10 of the bill provides that the sanctioning official sends a copy of the
decision to the municipality concerned. The CNPD wonders whether the copy of the decision sent to the municipality will be
linked to the municipal file? In such a case, there would de facto be the creation of a municipal criminal record.

More generally, the National Commission observes a parallelism between the criminal record provided for by law
of March 29, 2013 relating to the organization of the criminal record and the file of the sanctioning official
(and, if applicable, the municipal file). The CNPD wonders about the operating methods of the file
the sanctioning official (and, if applicable, the municipal file) which is similar to a criminal record
at municipal level. Indeed, there are very specific rules in relation to the registration and deregistration of
decisions of convictions of the judicial orders in the criminal record but the bill remains silent on the
operation of the files in question.

According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (e) of the GDPR, personal data must be stored under
a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed. The bill does not mention a duration of

241

CNPD 2018 ANNUAL REPORT limited retention of the entry of an offense in these files. The CNPD would like to point out that a limitation of
the retention of the data recorded in the file of the sanctioning official (and, where applicable, the file
of the municipality) is essential. Moreover, the National Commission wonders who will set this duration of
conservation (the Minister, the municipalities or the sanctioning official) and who will be responsible for the
deletion of the data after the expiry of the data retention period?
 
In addition, there are specific rules in relation to access to the data processed in the criminal record provided
by the amended law of 29 March 2013 relating to the organization of the criminal record. The bill appears to limit access
to the file of the sanctioning official to the sanctioning official himself but with regard to the file
of the municipality, the draft law does not provide for any limitation of access at the level of the municipality. The CNPD recommends
urge to include i) restricted access to this file in the bill, and ii) details concerning the right of access
of the person concerned in the file of the sanctioning official (and, where applicable, in the file of the municipality).

Contrary to the additional opinion of the Council of State of October 23, 2018, the CNPD approves the clarification of the
relevant data provided for in Articles 18 and 19 of the Bill. The principle of legal certainty is thus
reinforced and the GDPR expressly provides for the possibility of such clarifications in national law.

Thus, Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR provides that "(...) this legal basis may contain provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, inter alia: the general conditions governing
the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; THE
persons concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the
purposes for which they may be used; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations and
processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided
in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX [of the GDPR] (…)”.

Recital (45) of the GDPR also specifies that “(…) this [national] law could specify the
general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data,
establish the specifications to determine the controller, the type of personal data
being processed, data subjects, entities to which the personal data
may be communicated, the limitations of the purpose, the storage period and other measures aimed at
guarantee lawful and fair processing. »

For the rest, the National Commission has no other observations to make.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on December 7, 2018.

The National Commission for Data Protection,

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Josiane Pauly
Substitute member

242

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing the identification of persons
and the categories of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of
patients and providers.

Deliberation n° 491/2018 of December 21, 2018

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. Article 7 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for Data Protection
(hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of
of Article 57 of the GDPR.

By letter dated October 8, 2018, the Minister of Social Security invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing the identification of persons
and the categories of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of patients and providers
(hereinafter “the draft Grand-Ducal regulation”). This project is taken pursuant to Article 60ter, paragraph (2),
paragraph 7 of the Social Security Code, introduced by the law of December 13, 2017 amending certain provisions
of the Social Security Code160 and providing that a “Grand-Ducal regulation specifies the procedures for managing
identification and the categories of data contained in the identification reference directories. " In his
opinion of December 2, 2016 relating to bill no. 7061, which became the law of December 13, 2017,161 the CNPD had
underlined the importance of giving a legal basis to the identity monitoring system developed by the National Agency
information shared in the field of health (hereinafter referred to as "the eHealth Agency") on the one hand, and to
reference directories for the identification of patients and healthcare providers, on the other hand, by allowing
to guarantee the information security and quality objectives underlying the implementation of said tools
by the eSanté Agency.

The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the draft regulation
grand-ducal having an impact on respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff. It proposes to follow the drafting order of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to formulate its
recommendations.

160 Law of 13 December 2017 modifying certain provisions of the Social Security Code (Memorial A-2017-1063 of 15 December 2017, p. 1, doc. parl. 7061).
161 Deliberation no. 1005/2016 of December 2, 2016.

243

2018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Ad article 1

Paragraph 1 of the article under review provides for the obligation of the eSanté Agency to set up a procedure
identification of people and administration of reference directories for the identification of patients and
health care providers. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides more specifically
the implementation of rules for tracing access to the national electronic platform for the exchange and sharing of
health data (hereinafter: “the platform”). However, given the title of the project under review, the CNPD cannot
that to agree with the opinion of the Council of State of November 27, 2018 which wondered whether “the provision under review
does not exceed the scope of Article 60ter, paragraph 2, of the Social Security Code insofar as
the platform is the entry point to several data processing systems, including the one that is the subject
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. 162 Indeed, said platform allows health care professionals and
patients to access a set of services offered by the eSanté Agency, such as the file
shared care.

Irrespective of the above considerations, the National Commission considers that Article 1
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation should be clarified and specified. First of all, its paragraph 2 provides
that certain information relating to the user who has accessed the platform must be traced. However, the term
"user" not being defined, the CNPD wonders if the latter covers all professionals of the
health listed in Article 61 of the Social Security Code, natural persons, employee-users
a health professional, legal person (health community) or only the health professional,
legal person (health community), or even other actors? The Council of State adds in its
opinion of November 27, 2018 the question whether the eSanté Agency is also to be considered “as a user and whether the
access and actions of the latter should therefore also be traced. Then, paragraph 3 of article 2
grants the possibility to the eSanté Agency to communicate information to users of the platform
by means of electronic files, without specifying what this “information” consists of. The CNPD holds
to emphasize that where the term “information” also encompasses personal data, which are
defined by Article 4 point 1) of the GDPR as “any information relating to a person
identified or identifiable physical person", all the provisions of the GDPR will be applicable to these transfers of
data.

Thus, for reasons of legal certainty, the National Commission is of the opinion that the text of the Grand-
ducal under opinion should further specify the notions of "user" and "information".

In addition, the comments on the articles specify that in order to identify health professionals wishing to
connect to the platform, the eSanté Agency assigns a unique electronic identifier to each healthcare professional.
health and health community in the context of electronic exchanges through the platform. The CNPD considers
that it is essential that each health professional working in a health community has an identifier

162 Opinion no. CE 53.106 of the Council of State of 27 November 2018.

244

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES and that it is not acceptable for such a community to have a common identifier. Already in
its opinion of 5 April 2018 relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for
in place of the shared care file, the National Commission had insisted on the importance of planning a
“obligation for health communities to set up access tracing systems that are
nominative and individual. »163

Article 2

Article 60ter paragraph (2) subparagraph 4 of the Social Security Code explicitly lists which data to
personal nature of Article 5 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of
natural persons the eSanté Agency can use to populate and update the identification reference directory
of patients, also called Master Patient Index (MPI). The eSanté Agency may also use the data
affiliation provided by the Joint Social Security Centre.

Article 2 paragraph 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation reproduces exactly all of the
data and categories of personal data provided for in the aforementioned article of the Code of
social Security.

Furthermore, paragraph 2 of article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination sets the duration of
retention of the data contained in the patient identification repository directory to a maximum
10 years "from the day on which the identification of the patient, respectively of the healthcare provider
becomes irrelevant in the context of the data processing referred to in Article 60ter of the Social Security Code
and this without prejudice to the provisions setting a specific retention period for the data processed on the
national electronic platform for the exchange and sharing of health data by the Agency. » The CNPD wishes
to recall in this context the legal requirement provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR not to
keep personal data in a form that allows the identification of data subjects
for longer than necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Based on the
reading the paragraph in question alone, it is not possible for the CNPD to identify the exact starting point of the
10 year period.

Thus, to set the triggering of the maximum retention period of 10 years, the CNPD agrees
in the opinion of the Council of State, which recommended that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation draw inspiration
the starting points provided for in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions of
implementation of the shared care file for the deletion of data, namely the death of the patient and the
closing platform applications. The CNPD therefore considers it necessary to describe concisely
in the body of the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion what is the exact starting point of the deadline for
10 years.

163 Deliberation No. 242/2018 of April 5, 2018.

245

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD In addition to the question of the precise start of the retention period, the National Commission wonders
generally if the 10-year period is justified in relation to the purposes pursued by the establishment
of the patient identification reference directory. The authors of bill no. 7061, which became the law of 13
December 2017 amending certain provisions of the Social Security Code, described the purposes of the said
directory, as well as the reference directory for the identification of health care providers in the manner
following: “Secure identity management is essential not only for patient and
providers to the national platform and to the shared care file but, in general, in all
IT projects on a national scale aiming for a secure exchange or better use of
health data. To this end, the eSanté Agency has set up a monitoring and
prevention of errors and risks related to the identification of patients and providers to manage the quality and
the reliability of the information processed in the services deployed. It is essential to ensure that a single
patient or provider is uniquely identified throughout the platform ecosystem and in the
reciprocal communications with the information systems of players in the field of health and
care. 164 The commentary to the articles of the Grand-Ducal regulation under the opinion specifies in this respect that the duration of
conservation aims to align with the maximum duration during which professionals and institutions of
health, using a platform application for the management of their patient records, keep in practice
the data. The comment goes on to say that the "data may, however, be deleted within a
shorter period if their conservation is no longer justified with regard to the interaction needs of the directory with the
platform apps. »

However, considering that the reference patient identification directory will not replace the
patient records kept by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare professionals, the
National Commission considers that a storage period of ten years after the death of a patient or the
closure of the platform's applications appears to be excessive with regard to the aforementioned purposes of said
phone book.

Article 3

On the basis of article 60ter paragraph (2) subparagraphs 5 and 6 of the Social Security Code, article 3 of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation sets out the personal data included in the directory
repository of identification of health care providers. By aligning with the retention period of
data contained in the patient identification reference directory, paragraph 2 of article 3 provides for the same
provision as to the storage period of a maximum of 10 years from the date of identification of the patient,
respectively of the healthcare provider becomes irrelevant. The CNPD refers in this context to its comments
under the point "Ad article 2" concerning the starting point of the retention period, as well as the duration in
herself.

164 Commentary on the articles of bill no. 7061 amending certain provisions of the Social Security Code, filed on September 13, 2016.

246

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Ad article 4
 
According to article 4, paragraph 1 of the Grand-Ducal regulation under examination, the eSanté Agency informs patients and
health care providers on the nature and purpose of the data entered in the respective directories, as well as
that on the existence of their right of access, information and rectification throughout the duration of the processing of the
data. The CNPD would nevertheless like to point out first of all that the right to information emanates directly from the
Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR and that these provisions should not be included in a national legal text, except
when the national legislator intends to limit the rights of data subjects in accordance with Article 23
of the GDPR. Regardless of this consideration, authors should take into consideration the whole
information provided for in the aforementioned articles of the GDPR including, for example, in addition to what
is mentioned in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the contact details of the delegate for
data protection, recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, the
retention period of personal data, as well as the right to lodge a complaint with
of the CNPD.

In addition, according to article 4, paragraphs 2 to 4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the eSanté Agency transmits the
requests for access and rectification of data by patients and healthcare providers to organizations
competent in the matter, i.e. the Joint Social Security Center, the bodies provided for
by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons, as well as to the Minister having
Health in its attributions and to the National Health Fund.

With regard to requests for rectification, the CNPD can understand that for the purpose of simplification
administrative, the eSanté Agency transmits the said requests directly to the bodies at the origin
Datas. Nevertheless, as the Council of State rightly points out in its opinion of 27 November
2018, the Agence eSanté is the “controller, regardless of the origin of the data. THE
Council of State draws the authors' attention to the fact that the provision under notice could be understood as
conferring on the Agency the possibility of discharging the obligations provided for by the European regulation. […]”
Thus, in the event of a request for rectification of data by a patient or a healthcare provider, the Agency
eSanté is required to ensure under Article 16 of the GDPR that inaccurate data is corrected in its
own files, including in particular the reference directories for the identification of patients and healthcare providers
health.

In addition, in the event of a request for access by a patient or a healthcare provider to the data held
by the Agence eSanté, the latter is obliged in its capacity as controller and under Article
15 of the GDPR to respond without an intermediary within one month of receipt of the request,
extendable by two months taking into account the complexity and the number of requests (article 12 paragraph (3)

247

ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CNPD of the GDPR), except to consider the Joint Center for Social Security, the bodies provided for by the amended law
of June 19, 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons, as well as the Minister having Health in his
attributions and the National Health Fund as subcontractors of the eSanté Agency.

Finally, the CNPD would like to point out that this possibility offered to patients and healthcare professionals
to exercise their rights of rectification via the eSanté Agency is without prejudice to article 37 of the amended law of 19
June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons providing in its paragraph (1), paragraph 2 that any
person can request the rectification of their data "either directly at the counter of the municipality on the basis of
a form, either by simple letter or electronically to the Minister for the data entered in the register
national or to the mayor for the data entered in the communal register. […]”

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on December 21, 2018.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Josiane Pauly
Substitute member

248

52018 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES 1, avenue du Rock’n’Roll - L-4361 Esch-sur-Alzette

Telephone: +352 26 10 60-1 - Fax: +352 26 10 60-29

www.cnpd.lu

