 

"Safer Internet Day" on February 11, 2020

 

Security and data protection on the Internet concern us all.

Press Release – Page 1/3
Munich, February 10, 2020

The "Safer Internet Day" will take place again this year. Of the
The day of action on February 11, 2020 is themed "Together for a
better internet".

The "Together for a Better Internet" objective raises an important issue
It is highlighted that here the cooperation of many different
actors is necessary. The responsible service providers, legislators,
Regulators and Internet users, but also developers and
Providers of technology and software solutions must be involved to ensure this
Internet to a secure and privacy-friendly environment
make.

In addition to the data protection law applicable since May 25, 2018
Basic regulation should also be a regulation at European level
on privacy and electronic communications (ePrivacy
Regulation) are issued. That already in January 2017 (!) with a
Draft regulation initiated by the European Commission
However, there is no legislative procedure for the ePrivacy Regulation
to conclude, for some time now the Council of European
Union to no agreement. Come to the Council of the European Union
Ministers from all EU countries together. At the end of 2019 we read that
the European Commissioner Thierry Breton on a complete
Restarting the legislative process is thinking and the European
Commission may present a new draft.

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from February 10th, 2020 – page 2/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
The ePrivacy Regulation should regulate, among other things, under which
Prerequisites - for example by setting and reading cookies -
 
the end devices of the users may be accessed when they visit websites
call.

The governments of the Member States, given their participation in the
Council of the European Union called the ePrivacy Regulation now
to finally bring forward while respecting the privacy and end devices of
To protect users as best as possible and under no circumstances behind the regulations of the
to fall back on the previous ePrivacy Directive.

Irrespective of current legislative procedures, Internet
Users often achieve a high level with manageable effort
Achieve security gain:

 Make sure that all available security

Updates are installed on your devices.

 Make use of the options for securely configuring

smart phone.

 Check your browser settings and adjust them

individually to your requirements.

 Utilize the use of end-to-end encryption, there

where it is offered.

 

Petri: "The ePrivacy regulation must now finally and in the foreseeable future
come up with regulations that protect the privacy of users
to ensure. Regardless of the legal regulations,
everyone for his own protection every now and then not only with the
Possibilities and chances of the internet, but also with the
deal with associated risks. Because often you can
achieve a considerable gain in safety with little effort."

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from February 10, 2020 – page 3/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
There are many websites that provide tips on security on the internet
Example at https://www.bsi-fuer-buerger.de (external link),
 
https://www.klicksafe.de (external link) or https://www.youngdata.de
(external link) and of course on the websites of the
data protection supervisory authorities.

  

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

