 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Athens, 11-19-2021
Prot. No.: 2642
 

 

 

 

DECISION 51/2021

(Department)

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
composition of the Department via teleconference on 17-11-2021 upon his invitation
of its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in the history
of the present. George Batzalexis, Deputy President, was present.
obstructed by the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos, the regular members,
Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis,
  Spyridon
Vlachopoulos, as rapporteur. The meeting was attended, by order of the President,
Kyriaki Karakasi, legal auditor - lawyer, as assistant rapporteur and
Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of its administrative affairs department
Authority, as secretary.

  Charalambos Anthopoulos and

The Authority took into account the following:
It was submitted to the Authority under no. prot. C/EIS/3758/08-06-2021 application of A,
with which the complainant requests the reconsideration of no. original C/EIS/1270/22-
02-2021 of his complaint, for which the act of 05-17-2021 was issued
filing (notified to him with G/EX/1238/18-05-2021 forwarding
Authority document).

In particular, it was submitted to the Authority with no. prot. G/EIS/1270/22-02-2021
complaint by A against Bank X. In the context of the above complaint the already
applicant states, among other things, that during the period from July to
 

1

 
1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens
T: 210 6475 600 • E: contact@dpa.gr • www.dpa.gr
 

September 2020 was received with great frequency even within it
daytime phone calls, either on his cell phone or on the cottage phone
of the residence, by representatives or associates of the complained bank
regarding debts from a consumer loan and service contract
credit. According to the complainant, the above practice constitutes
automated individual decision-making, according to Article 22 of the GDPR,
including, he claims, profiling, while
points out that the phone calls came from different numbers, and
therefore more people were sharing the relevant information that he
concerned, watching the habits of the residents in his house
complainant. Finally, the complainant states that he has complained to
complained bank as well as to the Banking Ombudsman.

the application and

Subsequently, the Authority, after examining the aforementioned complaint, issued it
aforementioned from 17-05-2021 filing act insofar as the first
was evaluated as vague, as it lacked rudimentary documentation of them
projected. In particular, with the already challenged act it was established that
from
the attached documents do not show that
automated individual decision-making/profiling has taken place
involving the complainant nor a violation of the complaint
right. In addition, the Authority pointed out to the complainant that if he wishes to
exercise the rights referred to in his complaint (right
opposition/objections
downloading
decision/profiling concerning him) must be addressed beforehand
in the appropriate manner to the data controller (in this case to
reported bank), based on articles 21 and 22 GDPR, where these
are applied. Additionally, the Authority pointed out that the principles and framework within
of which the debtors must be informed (e.g. on which phone,
with what frequency, etc.). defined in Law 3758/2009, and in the General Secretariat
Trade and Consumer Protection is responsible for the general supervision of the activity
of the Debtors Information Companies (hereafter EEO) and the information
debtors, whether it is carried out by an EEO or by the lender itself (article 10

automated

individual

in

 

2

par. 1 of Law 3758/2009).

Subsequently, the complainant submitted the present action against the above act
with no. prot. C/EIS/3758/08-06-2021 application (treatment), with which, as well as
in no. prot. C/EIS/1270/22-02-2021 his complaint, claims that it was
automated individual decision-making/profiling, and that the
calls from the bank were made only to the cottage and not to the main one
his residence, for at least as long as he was in the first,
citing as documentation the above and the lists with the relevant calls
which he had also attached to his original complaint. He is attaching the documents
from which the communication that the complainant and already applicant had with her
complained bank, while also presenting the communication he had with him
Greek Financial Intermediary.

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file and after hearing him
rapporteur and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteur, who (last) left
after discussion and before conference and decision making, and afterwards
thorough discussion,

 

CONSIDERED ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

1. Because, article 2 par. 8 of Law 3051/2002 on the "Constitutionally protected
independent authorities, modification and completion of the recruitment system at
public sector and related regulations" issued in execution of article 101
A of the Constitution states that "8. Against the executive decisions of the independents
authorities, a petition for annulment may be brought before its Council
of State, as well as the administrative ones provided for in the Constitution and legislation
refugees. Legal remedies against decisions of independent authorities
may also be exercised by the relevant Minister". Article 24 par. 1 of
Law 2690/1999 (KPDiad.) stipulates that "If the relevant provisions do not provide for the
possibility of exercising, according to the following article, special administrative, or
of appeal, the interested party, for material or moral restoration
damage to his legitimate interests caused by individual administration

 

3

deed may, for any reason, with his application, request, either from
administrative authority which issued the act, its revocation or amendment
(request for treatment), either, from the authority that is in charge of the one that issued it
act, its annulment (hierarchical appeal)". In its true sense
provision, the treatment request aims to revoke or modify it
contested individual administrative act for legal or factual defects
of that which go back to the regime under which it was issued.
2. Because, with the above provisions of article 24 KDDiad. right is established
any "interested" manager, who has suffered material or moral damage
from an individual administrative act, to appeal against the authority that issued art
due to an act before resorting to judicial protection (simple administrative
appeal, aka treatment request). This is an "informal" administrative appeal
in contrast to the typical "special" and "unequivocal" appeals of the article
25 KDiad. This appeal requests the revocation or modification
of the above-mentioned individual administrative act, in order to
the material or moral damage to his legal interests is remedied
applicant that the administrative act caused, in those cases where the
the law does not provide for the possibility of exercising the above appeals
article 25 KDDiad1.
3. The issues raised with the treatment request, as set forth
above in the history of the present, have been examined in the context of its publication
contested filing act. In any case, the applicant did not
does not plead or adduce material new evidence in support of
his claims of automated individual decision-making against him.
In particular, the submitted documents, relating to electronic
correspondence of the applicant with representatives of both the complained bank
as well as the Greek Financial Ombudsman, do not prove the
denounced and do not shake what was accepted by the contested act of the Authority.
4. Therefore, the Authority adheres to the filing act dated 05-17-2021 which
forwarded to the already applicant with no. prot. C/EX/1238/18-05-2021

                                                 
1 See, for example, no. 73/2018 Decision of the Authority.

 

4

document, in the reasons of which it is mentioned.
 

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

Rejects A's treatment request.

 
 

 

 

The Deputy President

 
 
 

George Batzalexis

The Secretary

Irini Papageorgopoulou

5

