1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00175/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated January 27, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
reasons on which the claim is based are the presence of a camera in the window of the
denounced that captures a large public space without just cause, specifically a
public square, which is located in the Riaño industrial estate (Langredo-Asturias).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc.1-3) that proves the
presence of a device in the window with presumed orientation towards space
public.

SECOND: On 03/05/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, so that it may express what it deems appropriate in relation to the facts
object of complaint.

THIRD: On 06/05/20, a written statement was received from the accused by
which means the following:

“The camera to which they refer has been put in the year 2017, because that is how I
indicated the National Police (Langredo) after spending two years, since 2015, suffering
damage to vehicles in my home”

"I also inform you that the only recordings that exist of said
cameras are in the Court of Langredo, with their corresponding complaints and
Lawsuits in progress”.

 FOURTH. On September 1, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH. On 10/15/20, a written statement was received from the accused
stating the following:

-I communicate various parts of the insurer Allianz Seguros for damages in

vehicle owned by me.

-I take this opportunity to indicate that the camera in question has already been withdrawn.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FACTS

First. The object of this procedure is the claim dated 01/27/20 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of a camera in the window of the accused that captures a wide
public space without just cause, specifically a public square, which is located in the
Riaño polygon (Langredo-Asturias)”.

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge Doña B.B.B., which does not
He denies the facts, although he justifies them by repeated damage to his private vehicle. I know
provides as documentary evidence:

- *** ATTESTED.1.
- *** ATTESTED.2.
- *** ATTESTED.3.
- *** ATTESTED.4.

Third. It is proven that the defendant has proceeded to remove the camera from her
current site location.

Fourth. Document provided by Criminal Court No. 1 PA 0000203/2019 (La-
Gredo) where it is identified as Defendant Mr. A.A.A., current complainant in
this Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 01/27/20 is examined by me-
gave from which he translates the following:

"installation of camera oriented towards public space" without justified house

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that they comply with all
two the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

Article 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD provides:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular property, not being able to
affect the rights of third parties who may feel intimidated by this type of disposition.
sites.

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain images
public spaces, the security function of public spaces corresponding to
It is exclusively for the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Therefore, capturing images of public spaces by security cameras
private or private surveillance, must be limited to what is strictly necessary, applied
do in any case the principle of proportionality.

III

In accordance with the allegations and evidence available in the pre-
present sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has a
video-surveillance camera in the window of his home facing public space
co.

The party denounced brings various complaints before the Forces and Bodies of
State Security, which confirms various damages to the vehicle they own (Ci-
troen C4) subsumable in a crime of property damage (art. 263 CP).

This organization has spoken widely about the rejection of vanguard acts
damage to private property that are carried out furtively, under cover of the
belief that they will not be the object of any reproach, sometimes allowing the installation
transitory recording of a hidden camera, which allows the person responsible for the same to be accredited.
mos.

Remember that this type of action can be supported by the Forces and
Security Bodies of the locality, having to make available to them the
images obtained or, where appropriate, from the Investigating Judge closest to the place of the
facts.

Sometimes the installation of this type of device fulfills a different function.
persuasive against property damage that occurs surreptitiously, allowing
I intend to obtain material evidence from the alleged author of the same, who enjoys a
great facility to perform the acts described.

Although the facts could be considered as constituting a
administrative infraction, for violation of the content of article 5.1 c) RGPD, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

measure may be considered proportionate in the circumstances
exposed case, since its purpose was none other than to protect his private vehicle.
lar against the damages committed.

The impact on the rights of third parties has not been proven, as it is oriented
exclusively to the vehicle that is the object of various attacks, being
the local State Security Forces and Bodies aware of the facts
described.

Furthermore, the evidence has been submitted to the Criminal Court
nº1 (Langreo) where the case is being resolved within the framework of PA 0000203/2019, without
that there is a definitive pronouncement on the merits of the matter.

The proliferation of possession and use of video-recording devices by
citizens, facilitated in recent years by the cheapening and small size
of these devices, and even with the possibility of photographic cameras and even
mobile phones that allow video-recording, has given rise to numerous assumptions
cases in which individuals, harmed or aggrieved by acts of a criminal nature,
or mere witnesses of such events, have video-recorded such events.

There would be no difficulty in admitting video recording as evidence
made by the private individual on public roads because, ultimately, the video-recording by the
particular does not cease to be the documentary record (video-documentary) of what a
individual witnessed, being a witness-victim or a witness of the facts, in this case a
witness endowed with an extra guarantee regarding the credibility of his "testimony"
since what he witnessed was captured in a videographic documentary support,
with what your statement (in the instruction as an investigative diligence or in the
act of the oral trial, it would have to confirm that the images provided in these phases were
proceedings, the ones he recorded) and this document constitute a set of evidence of
effectiveness but which, in terms of its legal regime, does not differ from testimonial evidence.
more cal, and in terms of its assessment by the Judge or Court, it will be a diligence of
construction or proof that will have to be valued like the others.

The normal course of videographic evidence, once lawfully obtained and
correctly contributed to the process, will be the proposal of its viewing by any of
the parties, as documentary evidence, in the sessions of the oral trial, so that the Or-
Jurisdictional court can directly perceive the images of which they consist.
ta.

So that an individual can occasionally obtain images of
the public thoroughfare that prove a criminal act, having the same character of
essential documentary evidence when filing a COMPLAINT at a Police Station or
Trial court.

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, it is considered that there is an open legal case in which
The images have been provided as evidence of an alleged criminal act.
obtained, having proceeded in any case to the removal of the camera in question in
Thus the main question is settled.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

According to the above, the measure is considered proportionate to the end
guided, the total absence of intentionality in affecting the data of third parties is valued.
us, as well as the collaboration with this organization, reasons all of them that justify the
File of this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this administrative procedure.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Doña B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

