 

  

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

Bremerhaven, April 6th, 2022

State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information informed

via short reports

to Facebook fan pages

 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) informs their supervisor
subordinate public bodies about a new short opinion of the conference of the independent
(https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-
Federal and state data protection officers
online.de/media/weitere_dokumente/DSK_Kurzgutachten_Facebook-Fanpages_V1_18.03.2022.pdf)
on the question of the conformity of the operation of Facebook fan pages with data protection law.

To this said Dr.
Imke Sommer: "European Court of Justice, Federal Administrative Court and
The Higher Administrative Court of Schleswig found unanimously that fan site operators for
Share responsibility for Facebook's mistakes. This is fatal for the site operator because Facebook is
data protection obligations neither to a sufficient extent, nor the
co-responsible site operators provides the necessary information that these
need in order to be able to meet their obligations. The Independent
Federal and state data protection authorities have a common approach to this
decided. Because of their role model function, the focus is initially on public bodies
taken. The state governments and the federal government together have a bundled
Bargaining power, which also results from the exit obligation in the event of proven illegality
results. You can succeed in what everyone who has negotiated with Facebook has been struggling with
failed: Facebook must finally make it possible for the operators of the fan pages to publish their content
to be published in accordance with the law."

In a next step, the LfDI, like its colleagues from the federal government and the
other countries check whether the highest state authorities operate Facebook fan pages. If so,
LfDI will work to ensure that these Facebook fan pages are deactivated if the
Those responsible cannot prove compliance with data protection law. The conference of
independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments had this approach
decided at their 103rd conference:
https://datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/dskb/DSK_Beschluss_Facebook_Fanpages.pdf.

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

