  Thursday, November 14, 2019 2: Press releases Warning, website operators: please check the integration of analysis services Integrated service providers can also see and evaluate the clicks. Analysis services are particularly well known, which analyze user behavior or observe users surfing various websites (“tracking”). Not every web provider has data protection law in mind when integrating such services. Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, sees a need to catch up in the design of the offers: "We receive numerous complaints about analysis services on websites - these are no longer just isolated cases. People worry that detailed data will be collected about their usage behavior, their interests or their locations. They don't want ads tailored to them or are afraid of manipulation. This applies in particular to those service providers who combine the data from different websites, enrich it with further information and use it for their own purposes. Not only clicks can be evaluated, but also mouse movements or keystrokes.” In the spring of 2019, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments published the conditions under which analysis services can be integrated into websites according to the current legal situation. However, Hansen doubts that these requirements are already being met everywhere: "The majority of web providers urgently need to make improvements in order not to violate data protection law!" Her appeal: Anyone who integrates analysis services on the websites should please check this as a matter of urgency. You can find more information here: Instructions for the integration of analysis services on websites, November 2019 Guidance by the supervisory authorities for providers of telemedia, April 2019[Ext.] If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: news, press releases, tracking, responsibilityArticles with similar topics: E- Recipe procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure