THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

November 22, 2018

 

 

  LfDI Baden-Württemberg imposes its first fine in Germany

according to the GDPR

- Cooperation with supervision makes it easy -

 

Due to a violation of the data security required under Art. 32 DS-GVO

The fine office of the LfDI Baden-Württemberg has security with a decision of

11/21/2018 against a Baden-Württemberg social media provider a money

fine of 20,000 euros imposed and - in constructive cooperation with the

company - for extensive improvements in the security of user data

taken care of.

 

The company reported a data breach on September 8th, 2018

contacted the LfDI after noticing that a hacker attack in

July 2018 personal data of approximately 330,000 users, including passwords

and email addresses, stolen and made public in early September 2018

were. The company informed its users in accordance with the requirements of the EU

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) immediately and comprehensively via the

cker attack. In an exemplary manner, the company submitted to the LfDI

probably data processing and company structures as well as own negligence

se open. This made it known to the LfDI that the company had lost the passwords

of their users in plain text, thus unencrypted and unalienated (unhashed),

had saves. The company used these plain text passwords when using a

Nes so-called "password filter" to prevent the transmission of user passwords

to unauthorized third parties with the aim of better protecting users.

 
 

 

Koenigstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

 

You can find information on the collection of personal data from the person concerned in accordance with Article 13 DS-GVO on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

The company implemented far-reaching measures within a few weeks

improvement of their IT security architecture and thus brought about the security of their

re user data to the current state of the art. In addition, the company will

additional measures within the next few weeks in coordination with the LfDI

measures to further improve data security.

 

By storing the passwords in plain text, the company violated

materially against his obligation to ensure data security in the processing

processing of personal data in accordance with Article 32 (1) (a) GDPR.

 

Within the framework of fines according to Art. 83 Para. 4 GDPR, the very good

Cooperation with the LfDI in particular for the benefit of the company. the

The company's transparency was exemplary, as was its willingness to

Specifications and recommendations of the state commissioner for data protection and the

freedom of information, dr. Stefan Brink to implement. In this way could in very

short time, the security of the user data of the social media service has

be improved. In coordination with the LfDI, the backup of the user data in

further expanded in the coming weeks. When determining the fine

Among other circumstances, the overall financial burden for the company

take into account. According to the GDPR, fines should not only be effective and

dissuasive but also proportionate. Including the

The company has implemented and announced measures for IT security

finally the fine as a result of the violation a total amount in the six-digit

to be carried towards the euro area.

 

“Who learns from damage and transparently on improving data protection

participates can also emerge stronger as a company from a hacker attack,"

stressed dr. Brink in conclusion. "As a fines authority, the LfDI does not

up to enter a competition for the highest possible fines. At the end

What counts is the improvement of data protection and data security for the users concerned

destroy."

 

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.

