 

Johannes Gungl  

BEREC Chair 2018 

Jeremy Godfrey 

BEREC Chair 2019 

 

Brussels, 3 December 2019  

Ref: OUT2019-0055 

Subject: Data protection issues in the context of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 

 

Dear Mr Gungl, Dear Mr Godfrey, 

 

I  refer  to  your  letter  of  13  November  2018  regarding  consultation  of  the  European  Data 
Protection Board (‘EDPB’) on some issues on traffic management and zero-rating that concern 
privacy  aspects,  also  in  connection  with  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  (‘GDPR’)  and  Directive 
2002/58/EC (‘ePD’).  

In the attached Annex, you will find the Board’s replies to the questions submitted by BEREC 
concerning  certain  terminological  elements,  as  well  as  applicable  rules  related  to  personal 
data  processing  and  privacy  and  specific  obligations  regarding  transparency,  consent  and 
legal conditions for the processing of personal data. 

In summary, the Board wishes to point out that the terms “specific content” and “monitoring” 
are not explicitly defined in the data protection legislation currently in force. Nevertheless, this 
or  similar  terminology  is  in  use  in  jurisprudence and  important  principles  regarding  general 
monitoring of communications have been set out in the case law of the Court of Justice of the 
European Union (‘CJEU’). In particular, in Case C-70/10 Scarlet Extended, the Court and the 
Advocate  General  have  undertaken  a  thorough  analysis  of  traffic  analysis  and  monitoring 
operations. The analysis of a filtering system in that case led to the conclusion that any such 
filtering  system  would  create  an  interference  with  the  fundamental  rights  established  by 
Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter.  

Furthermore, in order to determine whether and to what extent traffic monitoring may be lawful, 
Articles 4, 5 and 6 ePD are relevant. The ePD generally provides that communications related 
data may not be stored, tapped or otherwise intercepted without the consent of all end-users 
concerned1. In the case of a network service that is based on the internet protocol (IP), the 
EDPB is of the view that the IP header information constitute traffic data within the meaning 
of  Article  2(b)  ePD,  and  that  all  other  parts  of  the  packet  must  be  considered  content  or 
                                                 
1 The ePD provides for exemptions to this requirement in Art 5 ePD for “technical storage which is necessary for 
the  conveyance  of  a  communication  without  prejudice  to  the  principle  of  confidentiality.”,  for  “any  legally 
authorised  recording  of  communications  and  the  related  traffic  data  when  carried  out  in  the  course  of  lawful 
business  practice  for  the  purpose  of  providing  evidence  of  a  commercial  transaction  or  of  any  other  business 
communication”, in Art 6(2) ePD and in Art 15(1) ePD. 

1 

 

“specific content”. In some cases, transport headers could also be considered traffic data. The 
communications service provider must not process the content of an IP packet for purposes 
other  than  technical  storage  which  is  necessary  for  the  conveyance  of  a  communication 
without  prejudice  to  the  principle  of  confidentiality,  including  elements  serving  as  control 
information for other protocol layers, e.g. http headers or URLs. This interpretation appears to 
be reflected correctly in the BEREC’s Net Neutrality Rules (BoR (16) 127 69), as reported in 
BEREC’s letter. 

As  established  in  C-70/10  and  C-582/14  Breyer,  also  traffic  data  (including  IP  addresses) 
constitute  personal  data  when  associated  to  a  natural  person.  Consequently,  the  relevant 
GDPR provisions apply2. The GDPR transparency requirements complement those laid down 
in  the  Regulation  (EU)  2015/2120  (hereinafter  “TSM  Regulation”)3  Article  4,  which  have  a 
different  scope  and  purpose.  Furthermore,  the  GDPR’s  definition  of  ‘consent’  and  its 
provisions on consent also apply in cases where the ePD requires consent.  

As BEREC correctly recognizes in its letter, the ePD requires consent for the processing of 
traffic data of all end-users concerned in order to provide value added services. It should be 
taken into account that the domain names and URLs can provide revealing insights on a wide 
variety of aspects of a person’s life. For reasons set out in the annex, the Board considers that 
processing  of  data  such  as  the  domain  name  and  URL  by  internet  access  services 
providers for traffic management and billing purposes is unlawful, unless consent of 
all users is obtained. The EDPB remains open to discuss how traffic management and zero-
rating offers could be also implemented using other technical means, such as those suggested 
in the annex. 

Finally, the Board would like to thank the BEREC for this consultation on these very important 
data protection related issues.  

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

                                                 
2 EDPB Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding 
the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities adopted on 12 March 2019 
3 Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down 
measures concerning open internet access and retail charges for regulated intra-EU communications and amending 
Directive 2002/22/EC and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012, OJ L 310, 26.11.2015, p. 1–18 

2 

 

Annex 
a.  Is the term “specific content”  commonly used in privacy context, and how would 

this term in that case be defined in EU privacy rules? 

Background 

According  to  Regulation  (EU)  2015/2120  (hereinafter  “TSM  Regulation”)4  Article  3(3)  ‘[the 
traffic  management]  measures  shall  not  monitor  the  specific  content  and  shall  not  be 
maintained for longer than necessary.’  

The  BEREC  Guidelines  on  the  Implementation  by  National  Regulators  of  European  Net 
Neutrality Rules defines ‘specific content’ as the transport layer protocol payload5. Therefore, 
both network layer (e.g. IP packet) headers and transport layer (e.g. TCP or UDP) headers 
are considered generic content. 

Answer 

Both traffic data and content are part of the communications data as defined by article 2 ePD. 

There is no definition of the term ‘specific content’ neither in the ePrivacy Directive6 (‘ePD)’ 
nor in the GDPR7.  

Article 2 ePD defines the term ‘communication’ as ‘any information exchanged or conveyed 
between a finite number of parties by means of publicly available electronic communication 
service (...)’. ‘Traffic data’, are defined as “any data processed for the purpose of conveyance 
of a communication on an electronic communication network or for the billing thereof’. 

The EDPB considers that network layer (e.g. IP packet) headers and transport layer (e.g. TCP 
or UDP) headers should be considered traffic data, while the transport layer protocol payload 
should be considered contents of the communication.  

 

 

                                                 
4 Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down 
measures concerning open internet access and retail charges for regulated intra-EU communications and amending 
Directive 2002/22/EC and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012, OJ L 310, 26.11.2015, p. 1–18 
5  69.  In  assessing  traffic  management  measures,  NRAs  should  ensure  that  such  measures  do  not  monitor  the 
specific content (i.e. transport layer protocol payload).  
70. Conversely, traffic management measures that monitor aspects other than the specific content, i.e. the generic 
content,  should  be  deemed  to  be  allowed.  Monitoring  techniques  used  by  ISPs  which  rely  on  the  information 
contained in the IP packet header, and transport layer protocol header (e.g. TCP) may be deemed to be generic 
content, as opposed to the specific content provided by end-users themselves (such as text, pictures and video). 
6 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing 
of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and 
electronic communications) OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37–47 
7 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (Text with EEA relevance) OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, 
p. 1–88 

3 

 

b.  Is  the  term  “monitoring”  commonly  used  in  privacy  context,  and  how would  this 

term in that case be defined in EU privacy rules? 

Background  

The term ‘monitor’ or ‘monitoring’ is used in Recital 108 and Article 3(3) of the Regulation (EU) 
2015/2120.  In  both  cases  the  monitor  term  is  used  in  the  context  of  IAS  providers’  traffic 
management activities while preventing the monitoring of ‘specific content’. 

The  BEREC  Guidelines  on  the  Implementation  by  National  Regulators  of  European  Net 
Neutrality  Rules  also  refers  to  monitoring  in  its  paragraph  85,  where  it  is  described  as 
‘monitoring of the integrity and security of the network’. 

Answer 

Although the term ‘monitoring’ is commonly used in the context of privacy and data protection, 
there is no definition of the term neither in the ePD nor in the GDPR which would apply in the 
present context.9

However,  general  principles for  monitoring  of  communications  have  been  developed  in  the 
case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘CJEU’). For example, the case C-
70/10 Scarlet Extended10, which involved balancing the protection of fundamental rights: on 
the  one  hand,  the  protection  of the  intellectual  property  right  enjoyed  by  copyright  holders, 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  that  of  the  freedom  to  conduct  business,  the  right  to  protection  of 
personal data and the freedom to receive or impart information . In this case the CJEU ruled 
that  “Preventive  monitoring  (…)  would  (…)  require  active  observation  of  all  electronic 
communications conducted on the network of the ISP concerned and, consequently, would 
encompass  all  information  to  be  transmitted  and  all  customers  using  that  network”.  In  this 
case, the Court and the Advocate General undertook a thorough analysis of traffic analysis 
and monitoring operations. The analysis of a filtering system in that case led to the conclusion 
that  any  such  filtering  system  would  create  an  interference  with  the  fundamental  rights 
established  by  Articles  7  and  8  of  the  Charter.  As  the  AG  recognized  in  his  opinion11,  this 
interpretation was also held by the  European Data Protection Supervisor12 (EDPS) and the 

                                                 
8 Recital 10 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. ‘Reasonable traffic management does not require techniques which 
monitor the specific content of data traffic transmitted via the internet access service.’ 
9 In the context of the GDPR, “monitoring” individuals’ habits or preferences is one of the situations that trigger 
high risks for data subjects’ rights and freedoms to the extent that a prior data protection impact assessment is 
mandatory before a processing operation entailing a “monitoring” is put in place, see e.g. Art. 3(2) b) or Art. 35 
(3) c GDPR. 
10 Judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 24 November 2011, Case C-70/10, Scarlet Extended 
SA v Société belge des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs SCRL (SABAM)), ECLI:EU:C:2011:77 
11 Opinion of Advocate General Cruz Villalón delivered on 14 April 2011, Case C-70/10, Scarlet Extended SA v 
Société belge des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs SCRL (SABAM)), ECLI:EU:C:2011:255 
12 Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor of 10 May 2010 on the proposal for a directive of the 
European Parliament and of the Council on combating the sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child 
pornography, repealing Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA (OJ 2010 C 323, p. 6, paragraph 11). 

4 

 

Article  29 Working  Party  (WP29),  the  predecessor  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board 
(EDPB) 131415. 

 

c.  Which  rules  follow  from  EU  privacy 

law  for  practices  concerning  traffic 

management?  

Background 

According to Article 3(4) of the Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 processing of personal data shall 
be carried out in accordance with the ePD and with the Directive 95/46/EC (since replaced by 
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR)).  

Answer 

Recital  9  of  the  TSM  Regulation  provides  that  ‘[t]he  objective  of  reasonable  traffic 
management is to contribute to an efficient use of network resources and to an optimisation 
of  overall  transmission  quality  responding  to  the  objectively  different  technical  quality  of 
service requirements of specific categories of traffic, and thus of the content, applications and 
services transmitted.‘ 

The EDPB understands that by “traffic management” one should intend an intervention of the 
network  operator  so  that,  based  on  predefined  criteria  communications  flowing  into  the 
network  are  routed  in  a  different  way.  Recital  9  of  the  TSM  Regulation  clarifies  that  such 
routing ‘differentiation should be permitted only on the basis of objectively different technical 
quality  of  service  requirements  (for  example,  in  terms  of  latency,  jitter,  packet  loss,  and 
bandwidth)  of  the  specific  categories  of  traffic,  and  not  on  the  basis  of  commercial 
considerations’.  From  a  privacy  and  data  protection  perspective,  processing  that  involves 
scrutiny of packet flows might amount to monitoring of electronic communications and must 
be  approached  with  caution.  In  addition,  the  choice  of  criteria  for  traffic  management  is 
important,  since  this  is  where  the  impacts  on  individuals’  rights  and  freedoms  may  be 
generated.  

In the context of traffic management, it is particularly important to highlight that the content of 
communications  and  the  traffic  data  are  both  protected  by  the right to the  confidentiality  of 
communications,  which  is  a  fundamental  right,  guaranteed  by  Article  8  of  the  European 
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 7 of 
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.  

                                                 
13 Case  C-70/10 Scarlet Extended SA  v Société belge des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs SCRL (SABAM) 
[2011] ECLI:EU:C:2011:255, Opinion of AG Cruz Villalón. para 76 
14 EDPS Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor of 22 February 2010 on the Anti Counterfeiting 
Trade Agreement (ACTA), OJ 2010 C 147, p. 1, paragraph 24; EDPS Opinion of the European Data Protection 
Supervisor  of  10  May  2010  on  the  proposal  for  a directive  of  the  European Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on 
combating the sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, repealing Framework Decision 
2004/68/JHA, OJ 2010 C 323, p. 6, paragraph 11 
15 Article 29 Working Party “Privacy on the Internet - An integrated EU Approach to On-line Data Protection-” 
WP 37, 21 November 2000, p. 22 

5 

 

Confidentiality  is  further  protected  in  secondary  EU  legislation,  in  particular,  Article  5  ePD. 
Article 5 (1) ePD sets out the general rule that ‘(...) listening, tapping, storage or other kinds of 
interception or surveillance of communications and the related traffic data by persons other 
than users’ is prohibited without the consent of the users concerned, allowing two exceptions, 
a  legal  authorisation  in  line  with  ePD  Article  15(1)  and  the  ‘technical  storage  which  is 
necessary for the conveyance of a communication’. 

Article 6 (2) ePD allows the processing of traffic data for the purposes of subscriber billing and 
interconnection payments. 

Article 2(b) defines “traffic data” as “any data processed for the purpose of conveyance of a 
communication on an electronic communications network or for the billing thereof”.  

Further,  Article  5(1)  states  in  respect  of  national  legislative  measures  on  confidentiality  of 
communications  that  they  “...shall  not  prevent  technical  storage  which  is  necessary  for  the 
conveyance of a communication without prejudice to the principle of confidentiality.” 

In  order  to  benefit  of  this  last  exception  for  traffic  management,  the  processing  should  be 
clearly demonstrable as being strictly necessary and proportionate. To be strictly necessary, 
such  data  processing  should  be  required,  unconditional  and  without  alternative.  To  be 
proportionate, the processing should strike the right balance between the means used and the 
intended aim. Service providers need to be able to provide this demonstration whenever and 
however they under-take such processing. 

On this aspect, it is worth recalling that the processing of personal data retained in the context 
of traffic management must also respect other principles that derive from the GDPR and the 
ePD. In particular, the data minimization principle (personal data must be adequate, relevant 
and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed), and 
the    principle  of  lawfulness,  fairness  and  transparency  (personal  data  shall  be  processed 
lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject).  

In addition, as the ePD complements and particularises the GDPR and Art 2(f) ePD refers to 
the definition of consent in GDPR16, whenever the two exceptions in articles 5(1) and article 
6(2) do not apply and consent is the legal basis for the processing, this must be interpreted in 
line  with  Article  4  (11)  GDPR  as  ‘any  freely  given,  specific,  informed  and  unambiguous 
indication  of  the  data  subject's  wishes  by  which  he  or  she,  by  a  statement  or  by  a  clear 
affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of  personal data relating to him or 
her.’ The Article 29 Working Party’s guidelines on consent17 provide general guidance on how 
to obtain users consent. 

 

 

                                                 
16 Article 2(f) of the ePrivacy  Directive states that  “‘consent’ by a user or subscriber  corresponds to the data 
subject's consent in [Regulation (EU) 2016/679]” 
17 Article 29 Working Party. “Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679” adopted on 28 November 2017, last revised 
and adopted on 10 April 2018, 17/ENWP259 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB 
 

6 

 

d.  How would the obligation to be transparent on traffic management measures relate 

to obligation to inform under EU privacy law? 

Background 

According to Article 4(a) of the Regulation (EU) 2015/2120, ‘providers of IAS shall ensure that 
any contract specifies [...] the information on how traffic management measures applied by 
that provider could impact on the quality of the internet access services, on the privacy of end-
users and on the protection of their personal data.‘ 

Answer 

Providers of IAS must also provide their customers with the information foreseen in Articles 
12 and 13 GDPR. The purposes for which Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 allows traffic monitoring 
(compliance with legislative acts, preservation of network integrity and security and prevention 
or mitigation of network congestion) are different from the purpose of fulfilling the contract or 
conveying  the  message.  The  subscriber  should  be  informed  of  such  purposes  and  of  the 
associated legal grounds envisaged in ePD. Such information should be provided in a precise, 
transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form. It may be provided together with the 
contractual terms. 

Furthermore, providers of IAS bear a responsibility for informing customers about any update 
or changes to their traffic management policies.  

 

e.  When applying traffic management for IAS, from a data protection perspective, is it 

allowed to process data such as the domain name and URL? 

Background 

Article 3(4) of the Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 sets out the requirements to process personal 
data for traffic management. 

On the one hand it requires that the processing will be carried out in accordance with the ePD 
and with the GDPR. On the other it allows such processing only if necessary and proportionate 
to achieve the objectives set out in Article 3(3) paragraph 3 of the Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. 

Answer 

The  confidentiality  of  communications  enshrined  in  Article  5(1)  ePD,  as  said,  prohibits 
‘technical  storage  which  is  necessary  for  the  conveyance  of  a  communication’  without  the 
consent of the users concerned, allowing two exceptions: a legal authorisation in line with ePD 
Article  15(1)  or  for  the  ‘technical  storage  which  is  necessary  for  the  conveyance  of  a 
communication’. 

The  relevance  of  confidentiality  is  of  high  importance  as  the  domain  names  and  URLs,  in 
conjunction  with  other  data  relating  to  electronic  communications,  can  provide  revealing 
insights on a wide variety of aspects of a person’s life. In fact, they can be as revealing as the 
actual contents of the communication.  

IAS service providers do not require information included in the transport layer payload (like 
domain names or URLs) to convey a communication on an electronic communication network. 

7 

 

Therefore, domain names and URLs cannot be considered ‘traffic data’ as defined in Article 
2(b) ePD and they cannot be processed under the provisions in Article 6 ePD.  

Article 5(1) ePD allows for the ‘technical storage which is necessary for the conveyance of a 
communication’.  However,  domain  names  and  URLs  are  not  necessary  for  IAS  service 
providers to convey a communication. 

Even the option of basing traffic management on consent is not unconstrained.  Consent, in 
fact,  must  be  interpreted  in  the  light  of  Article  4  (11)  GDPR  as  “any  freely  given,  specific, 
informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a 
statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal 
data relating to him or her.”. In the light of this definition, no possibility exists for setting vague 
purposes, and any open-ended traffic management processing operations would be in breach 
of  the  law.  IAS  providers  should  also  consider  that  freely  given  consent  can  be  withdrawn 
anytime. The Article 29 Working Party’s guidelines on consent18 provide general guidance on 
how to obtain users consent.  

The EDBP considers that the processing of communications and related traffic data on the 
basis of the Article 5(1) ePD for purposes of traffic management requires the consent  of all 
end-users of an IAS provider. 

IAS providers would need to perform deep packet  inspection to gain access to the domain 
names and URLs that are included in the transport layer payload. 

As  already  mentioned,  a  filtering  system  that  would  require  an  ISP  to  carry  out  general 
monitoring  of  the  information  in  Case  C-70/10  Scarlet  Extended  led  the  CJEU  to  the 
conclusion that any such filtering system would create an unjustifiable interference with the 
fundamental rights established by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter. 

Considering  the  interference  that  the  general  monitoring  of  end-users’  communications 
content would create, the EDPB is of the view that the use of deep packet inspection to 
extract the domain names and URLs for traffic management is unlawful, unless consent 
of all users is obtained. 

IAS provider could achieve the objectives of traffic management standardizing and using data 
available at the IP header like the Explicit Congestion Notification19 (ECN) or the Differentiated 
Services Code Point20 (DSCP). Therefore, the EDPB is of the view that processing of domain 
names and URLs by providers of IAS is not necessary to conduct traffic management.  

The EDPB encourages the IAS providers and BEREC where relevant to define and agree on 
less invasive and more standardized ways to manage internet traffic, interoperable throughout 
different IASs, which are not based on the use of URLs and domain names. 

 

 

                                                 
18 Article 29 Working Party “Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679” adopted on 28 November 2017, 
last revised and adopted on 10 April 2018, 17/ENWP259 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB 
19 https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3168  
20 https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2474  

8 

 

f.  On zero-rating offers, how can providers of IAS obtain user consent on monitoring all 

visited domain names and websites for billing purposes? 

Background 

According  to  the  BEREC  Guidelines  on  the  Implementation  by  National  Regulators  of 
European Net Neutrality Rules21, a zero-rating offer ‘is where an ISP applies a price of zero to 
the  data  traffic  associated  with  a  particular  application  or  category  of  applications  (and  the 
data does not count towards any data cap in place on the IAS).’ 

Answer 

Art 5(1) ePD prohibits ‘listening, tapping, storage or other kinds of interception or surveillance 
of  communications  and  the  related  traffic  data  by  persons  other  than  users,  without  the 
consent of the users concerned, except when legally authorised to do so in accordance with 
Article 15(1). This paragraph shall not prevent technical storage which is necessary for the 
conveyance of a communication without prejudice to the principle of confidentiality.’ 

If  billing  is  the  purpose  of  the  processing  of  electronic  communication  data,  legislative 
measures referred in Article 15(1) ePD would not be applicable. Consequently, freely given 
and  specific  consent  of the  users  would  be  required  to  process  visited  domain  names  and 
websites for billing purposes22. 

As mentioned in the previous answer, domain names and URLs cannot be processed under 
the traffic data provisions in Article 6 ePD. 

For the mentioned purpose, the IAS will need to obtain consent of all end-users. The same 
argument as provided in the answers to question c and e relating to consent still apply in this 
case23.  

For an IAS to obtain consent in a way that will fully meet all the requirements stipulated by the 
GDPR will be challenging. 

For  the  same  reasons  expressed  in  the  previous  answer,  the  EDPB  is  of  the  view  that 
monitoring all visited domain names and websites for billing purposes is unlikely to be 
possible in a lawful manner. 

 

 

                                                 
21https://berec.europa.eu/eng/document_register/subject_matter/berec/download/0/6160-berec-guidelines-on-
the-implementation-b_0.pdf  
22 Article 29 Working Party “Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679” adopted on 28 November 2017, 
last revised and adopted on 10 April 2018, 17/ENWP259 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB 
23 The Art 29 Working Party Guidelines state “that the controller must ensure that consent can be withdrawn by the 
data subject as easy as giving consent and at any given time.” (emphasis added) 

9 

 

g.  On zero-rating offers, how can providers of IAS lawfully monitor traffic of third parties 

for billing purposes (red arrow in the figure above)? 

Answer 

As  mentioned  in  the  reply  to  the  previous  question,  Article  5(1)  ePD  requires  the  user’s 
consent to legitimise the processing.  

The EDPB is of the view that whenever non-contractual parties are involved, consent as in art 
5(1) ePD is needed to legitimise the processing. 

Consent must be obtained from all users involved in the processing of communications data 
(senders  and  recipients)24.  Therefore,  according  to  Article  5(1)  ePD,  the  legal  ground  to 
monitor  traffic  for  billing  purposes  can  only  be  consent  of  all  involved  end-users  (to  be 
understood as the individuals actually using the service). 

In the case of the communication represented by the red arrow in the figure, the sender of an 
electronic  communication  has  not  consented the  monitoring  of  his  or  her  traffic. Therefore, 
monitor of traffic of such third parties for billing purposes would be unlawful. 

The  data  contained  in  headers  of  transport,  network  or  data  link  layers,  if  properly 
standardized, could be considered traffic data and processed by the IAS providers for billing 
purposes in line with the provisions in Article 6 ePD. However, following the data minimization 
principle, the data included for billing purposes in the mentioned headers should be adequate, 
relevant and limited to what is necessary (e.g. to count or not a packet against the data cap). 

Again,  the  EDPB  encourages  the  IAS  providers  and  BEREC  where  relevant  to  define  and 
agree on less invasive and more standardized ways to bill internet traffic, based on labelling 
the type  of  communication,  interoperable  throughout  different  IASs,  which  are  respectful  of 
the data minimization principle and do not require traffic monitoring. 
 

                                                 
24  See  also  29  Working  Party  Opinion  01/2017  on  the  Proposed  Regulation  for  the  ePrivacy  Regulation 
(2002/58/EC), WP 247, p.3 and p.13 

10 

