1/18

 File No.: EXP202203183

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 7, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against LYCAMOBILE S.L.U.
(hereinafter, the claimed party), through the transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202203183

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On February 15, 2022 A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party)
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against LYCAMOBILE S.L.U. with NIF B92877141 (in
below, the claimed party).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

1) On 1/22/22, he received a message from LYCAMOBILE indicating that the
porting had been successfully registered. The claimant contacts said entity
stating that he had not requested anything and that it could have been a third party who, in the
year 2019, already supplanted his identity.

2) He states that said number is associated with his bank accounts, his
email address, Amazon, etc.

3) On 1/25/22, you again receive a message from the claimed entity, indicating
that, shortly, the portability will be carried out and, despite requesting the cancellation of
this, they indicate that it is not yet in their systems, because the request was made from
a physical store

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

4) On 1/26/22, he received several e-mails indicating that Facebook had changed the
password successfully with an IP address and a location in Alcobendas,
as had also happened with Amazon, with its Consum membership card, etc.
Likewise, the claimant verifies that his telephone does not work and that he cannot
access their email addresses.

5) After what happened, the claimant had to create a new email address
to link it to your bank accounts, but you still haven't recovered your phone line
mobile.

6) It indicates that the origin of everything could be in 2019 when he requested a credit card
loyalty to an email address that, from what he states, simulated
to real business without being one, constituting phishing or fraudulent data collection.

7) After what happened, he still hasn't recovered his mobile phone line.

Along with your claim, provide:

- Report to the National Police, where you declare that someone is using your data
to take over your phone line through portability. indicates that the court
of instruction of *** LOCATION.1 has filed the cause five times and that suffers
since 2019 identity theft with cash withdrawals from your accounts
banking.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on March 17, 2022, said claim was transferred to
the claimed party, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on March 28, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On May 5, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating the following:

“Unfortunately it is not possible for us to automatically manage portability
of the interested party's numbering back to Vodafone, but that portability has
to be requested by the interested party in the desired destination operator in accordance with the
procedures established for it. My represented will collaborate in everything
necessary for portability to come to fruition.”

THIRD: On May 6, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

POINT 1. In the transfer of the claim, the representatives of the claimed party
they stated the following:

- They only sell prepaid mobile phone services.

- The system that manages the portabilities will only accept the request if they have been
completed by the receiving operator all the mandatory fields in a manner
adequate.

- The data are, for prepaid lines: the NIF/NIE/Passport and nationality of the
subscriber, line number and ICC-ID (SIM card identifier).

- Therefore, the applicant not only identified himself as the interested party, but also
had the ICC-ID of the donor operator's SIM card. They indicate that this code
it is a unique code that appears on the customer's own SIM card. If this number, or
any other data required by the technical specification is not correct, the system
automatically denies portability because it is a procedure
automatic.

- The usurper should also know the usernames and passwords of
access of the other services to which the impersonator had access.

POINT 2. In these investigation actions, the
LYCAMOBILE information and documentation on portability processes and
on the claimed portability, revealing the following:

- LYCAMOBILE representatives insist that the ICC-ID code required for the
The procedure is that of the SIM card that the claimant should have inserted in his terminal
mobile, associated with the ported line and that this code is only in the possession of the
donor operator and the client, meaning that when a procedure requests
provide this code, the procedure is ensured, since physical possession of the
SIM card of the line on which you want to carry out the operation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

- The claimed party accepts portability requests from people who wish to be
their subscribers both in person and by phone or email.

However, it is necessary for the new customer to obtain a SIM card from the entity
to carry out the portability, which must be acquired and/or activated in person
at a point of sale where the interested party, according to the procedure established by the
entity, you must identify yourself with your identity document.

They provide a copy of the contract model "COMMERCIAL AGREEMENT OF POINT OF
XFERA PREPAID SALES” for the distribution of prepaid SIM cards. In
the contract is recorded as the signatory company Xfera Móviles, S.A.U. (XFERA), indicating
the representatives of the respondent party which is the company of the Class to which
belong to and through which the distribution channel is managed for all
marks.

It is verified that the third clause of the contract provided contains:

«Third: IDENTIFICATION OF CLIENTS.

3.1 The DISTRIBUTOR will conclude by itself the contracting of the Services of
Those customers who decide to contract any of the Services that are subject to
promotion by the DISTRIBUTOR (hereinafter, the "Customers").

In any case, the formalization of the contracting of the Services must be carried out
by entering the data of said contract in the computer application or
system determined for that purpose, and that the DISTRIBUTOR declares to know and know how to use
zar, and activate it as “high”.

In this regard, the DISTRIBUTOR assumes that the business concept object of the contract
treatment is not static, but clearly dynamic, so XFERA, of good
In faith and keeping in mind the existing situation at that time, you can make modifications
cations and changes in the way of entering the contracting data with the fi-
purpose of adapting the business concept to the trends and circumstances of the market.
fallen.

3.2 The DISTRIBUTOR will place the greatest emphasis and in order to detect any possible
fraud and to avoid the conclusion of contracts when there are indications of the same.
mine.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

For this purpose, it will refuse in any case the formalization of contracts with Clients that do not
are properly identified by means of an identity document
valid in Spain (DNI, NIE or passport) or who provide data whose veracity
be questionable if analyzed with the diligence of an orderly trader. To this
In this regard, the DISTRIBUTOR must collect and keep a copy of the document
proof of identity.

3.3 Obtaining registrations irregularly, impersonating the identity of the clients and/or
or your personal data, will entail a penalty established in Annex 2 for
each registration that closes using said practices, regardless of the date of the
registration, which THE DISTRIBUTOR must pay to XFERA, in addition to the retrocession of the
commission received.

Failure to comply with this obligation of diligence may lead to the termination
of the contract in accordance with the provisions of clause 10. […]»

- The representatives of the claimed party have stated that the procedure of
identification of the contracting party is made by showing his document
proof of original identity, which is recorded, along with the rest of the data
included in the Sole Additional Provision of the Data Conservation Law, in the
Book – Record.

- The representatives of the claimed party indicate that, in the case of portability,
This identification is reinforced, since it is also necessary to provide the ICC-ID of the
active SIM card in the donor operator so that this can occur.

They state that the display of the DNI or identity document is required and also
knowledge of a unique code of a card that is inside the device
mobile phone of the interested party indicating that this code is quite complex
relevant and is not exactly easy to access depending on which devices.

 They indicate that this measure, up to now, has been adequate to avoid supplanting
tions, stating that proof of this is the lack of precedents in the two
years that the claimed party has belonged to the Group.

- In the case of the claimant, they indicate that the portability request was made by
non-face-to-face means, stating that, however, there is no record of the
by phone, but through the back office.

They explain that this backoffice modality is activated when a point of sale is not
able to manage the request by itself, either due to technical or
any other nature. In this case, the back office is provided with the data required to
carry out portability:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

• Subscriber data: NIF/NIE/Passport and nationality/CIF.
• Line numbering.
• ICC-ID or Serial Number(s) of the SIM(s) (only in the case of prepaid subscribers)

Identity verification must be carried out at the point of sale, as
provided in the distribution contract.

- The claimed party has been required to provide a copy of the document
proof of the identity of the client that is specified in the contract provided
"XFERA PREPAID POINT OF SALE COMMERCIAL AGREEMENT" that indicates in
its clause 3.2 "in this regard, the DISTRIBUTOR must collect and keep a copy
of the document accrediting the identity”.

The representatives of the claimed party do not provide a copy of the supporting document
of identity, stating the following:

"Regarding the model contract provided, indicate that the obligation to the
referred to in the aforementioned clause 3.2 is applicable to contracting in
postpaid mode not prepaid. Particularly in the Llamaya brand, which is
It is also marketed through this same contract, it is also offered as a modality
postpaid and convergent […].

In this sense, the contracting of prepaid lines as we have already indicated to this Agency
adheres to the provisions of the legislation applicable to said contracting modality
In accordance with Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks provides in its
Unique additional provision the following:

"Mobile telephone service operators that market services with
activation system through the modality of prepaid cards must carry a
book-registry in which the identity of the clients who acquire a card is recorded
intelligent with this method of payment. […]

The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the personality,
recording in the registry book the name, surnames and nationality of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the identification document used and
the nature or denomination I have said document. […] »

The inclusion in the record book does not require the preservation of a copy of the document
accrediting personality, in fact, according to the literal tenor of the norm and
taking into account the nature of the prepaid modality service, the conservation of the
proof of identity could be considered an excessive treatment of
data.

Keep in mind that the reason for collecting data in the contracting modality
prepaid is the keeping of the book-registry, which exists to comply with the aforementioned
law and those who make use of such data, that is, the authorized agents, do not require
neither collected a copy of the document proving identity, so the
Its conservation would not meet a legal obligation or a public interest.

It should also be mentioned that, in strictly contractual terms, the possession of
a card with a balance, which can be recharged by any means allowed for it
even by third parties other than the owner, gives the right to the provision of the service of
telephony, not the fact of being A or B, as is the case with postpaid, which is a service
of successive tract provided under a contract is linked to a payment
periodical by direct debit.

To make a simile, prepaid would be similar to the old telephone booths,
while you have credit, you have service and the credit is linked to an ICC-ID associated with
a MSISDN (numbering).

Due to the above, when dealing with the registration of a prepaid line, no document is kept
proof of identity."

- Regarding the repeated telephone calls to LYCAMOBILE by the claimant to
cancel portability.

Information requested from LYCAMOBILE about the contacts maintained by the
complainant, the existence of the following calls has been verified:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

- 01/22/2022 9:27 a.m. Client indicates that they have received a portability notification SMS on the
who have impersonated their identity.

- 01/24/2022 16:15 Client calls to cancel the portability, the agent checks the
systems and does not see any requests, the client insists that he has an SMS informing him
of the procedure. As Customer Service does not record any in-flight requests and the line
is not ported to LYCAMOBILE the agent tells you that it cannot manage the
cancellation.

- 01/24/2022 18:00 Client calls again to cancel portability with
identity theft, the agent reviews the history of encrypted calls in the
CRM and indicates that the only way to cancel the request if it exists,
Since this management does not appear in the systems, it is to request the cancellation to the
donor operator (VODAFONE) since that line is not with LYCAMOBILE, the
client hangs up.

- 01/24/2022 18:11 Customer calls again to cancel portability with
spoofing, the agent verifies that it has not been requested from the service
Customer Service and informs you that no portability management appears
incoming to LYCAMOBILE. The agent suggests you call VODAFONE to cancel the
request and the client asks the agent for an email to send us the request for
written cancellation. (He provides the email of XX@lycamobile.es).

- 01/25/2022 11:16 Client calls again to cancel portability with
identity fraud. The agent asks for the request ID and for the nomenclature
indicates that it has not been requested from the ATC service, if not requested in a
point of sale.

In addition, the client tells us that he has already sent the complaint by email and the agent will
indicates that porting has not yet been completed as that number is not listed
as a LYCAMOBILE customer.

- 01/25/2022 13:36 Client calls again to cancel portability with
identity fraud. The agent cannot locate any requests in progress.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

VODAFONE has called you and indicated that in the next few minutes it will accept the
management.

The client indicates that he has sent the complaint by email and hangs up.

- 01/25/2022 19:21 Customer calls again to cancel portability with
identity theft, providing the line number, the agent explains that with
that number is not yet a customer.

It has been verified that according to the document "portability procedure" provided by
LYCAMOBILE, the portability in question should have been introduced in the
MNP system and appear as "pending" (pending). On the other hand, in the aforementioned
document is cited: “6.

In the event that we receive a customer call requesting a cancellation of
portability, ATC colleagues will create a ticket in CRM reporting it and
We will proceed to communicate it to the colleagues of Portability (fixed portability
portabilidad.fija@masmovil.com) to do the paperwork in the NODE.”

For this reason, a second requirement has been issued to LYCAMOBILE to provide the
reason why the telephone service agents who answered the multiple
Calls from the claimant between January 22 and 25, 2022 indicated that they did not see
registered the portability and did not manage a possible impersonation as
the claimant communicated.

The representatives of the entity have indicated that on the dates on which
The events denounced produced the CRM portability front was MNP.

Which implies that this system (MNP) was completely manual, so that the
portability requests had to be entered by hand without being able to appreciate
error in it since the ICC-ID, ID and name of the interested party were correct
and since otherwise the portability could not have occurred.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

They continue to state that "when in our previous response we indicated, in several
occasions, that customer service agents review the systems, what they are
consulting is the MNP directly, since Customer Service had access to
view it, which happened whenever there was an incident with a port.

What we do not know is the reason why they were not able to locate the request
of portability of the line [...line number in question...] in the system. Indicate to
this agency that it is the first time that we have news of a portability that does not
was visible in MNP, and that, although we do not know the real reason, it could be due to such
time to some kind of asynchrony of the NPM, since on those dates they were carrying out
parallel CRM migration jobs […].

As it is not visible on the front of the portability CRM (MNP), the portability for the
that the cancellation was requested, it was not possible to cancel it or create a ticket
related, since these activities have to be done on a request for
determined portability registered in MNP.

That is why the agents, faced with the impossibility of carrying out the operation,
repeatedly invited the interested party to contact Vodafone to
reject portability by impersonation at the time it entered them through
of the NODE [...] Vodafone was empowered to reject portability at the time
to receive it if the interested party had contacted them and informed
of impersonation"

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 4.11 of the GDPR defines the "consent of the interested party" as any
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either through a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you.

For its part, article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes that "The processing will only be lawful if
at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
do is part or for the application at the request of this of pre-contractual measures;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with an applicable legal obligation
to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the controller
I lie;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said interests
the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party do not prevail.
parties that require the protection of personal data, particularly when the interested party
Hopefully it's a child."

Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks provides in its
sole additional provision the following:

“Mobile telephony service operators that market services with
activation system through the modality of prepaid cards, they must carry a
book-registry in which the identity of the clients who acquire a card is recorded
intelligent with this method of payment. […]

The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the personality,
recording in the registry book the name, surnames and nationality of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the identification document used and
the nature or name of said document. […]”

II

In the present case, the portability of a telephone line owned by the
claimant, without their consent.

The portability object of the claim was carried out on 01/26/2022 (the
process on 01/22/2022) and was processed by LYCAMOBILE, as receiving operator
of portability.

It was made from a VODAFONE contract line (postpaid) to a prepaid line
of LYCAMOBILE.

It is stated that the identification is made with the DNI or identity document,
but a copy is not stored because it is not required by the specific portability regulations and that
the identification in prepaid is reinforced with the necessary contribution of the
ICC-ID code of the SIM card, to which the customer has access.

About the diligence to solve the problem by LYCAMOBILE.

There are up to seven contacts in the LYCAMOBILE systems, between the dates
01/22/2022 and 01/26/2022, corresponding to telephone calls in which the
claimant indicates that they have supplanted their identity to carry out the portability.

The LYCAMOBILE telephone service managers were not able to cancel the
portability by not viewing it in their systems, inviting the claimant to contact
VODAFONE.

According to the written procedure that they have provided, they should visualize the portability in
course, since it must be registered and the information available to the managers of
customer service, which can initiate the cancellation process when requested.

Therefore, LYCAMOBILE has been required to report the reason for not
will be displayed and canceled, stating the representatives of LYCAMOBILE that
They do not know the reason for the non-visualization, the cause being a migration of
systems on those dates.

About the diligence to solve the problem by VODAFONE.

There are contacts in the VODAFONE systems with entries registered in the
that the claimant states that he is going to cancel the portability, and that despite his
request do not carry out the cancellation of your data (LYCAMOBILE).

It is recorded (twice) that the claimant does not want calls from
VODAFONE.

On 01/25/2022, it is recorded that a retrospective management procedure was opened
portability (to VODAFONE) that ends without success, recording several attempts
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

unsuccessful in contacting the claimant, by VODAFONE managers,
to solve the problem.

Thus, in accordance with the evidence available in the present
time of agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, it is considered that the claimed operator has used the
data of the claimant, to carry out the portability, of the telephone line of the
that is the owner, without your consent, or any other legitimizing basis of article 6.1.
GDPR.

Therefore, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infraction, attributable to the defendant, for an alleged violation of article 6 of the
GDPR, indicated in the foundation II.

IV.

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that "according to what is established in the
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years, the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

V

Article 58.2 of the GDPR provides the following: "Each control authority shall have
of all of the following corrective powers listed below:

d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;

SAW

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this act, in order to
In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each
control authority may "order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period…”.

The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administration, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not attending to the possible order to adopt measures imposed by this
organism in the sanctioning resolution may be considered as an infraction
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

administration in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as an infringement in its
article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a subsequent procedure
sanctioning administrative

VII

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the GDPR.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR and art. 76.2 of the
LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with a habitual treatment of personal data (art.

76.2.b) LOPDGDD).

 In addition, we are facing a clear unintentional negligent action, but
significant (article 83.2 b) since there is a breach of security in the
step that is used as authentication, for confirmation of portability by
mobile telephony, said gross negligence is accredited by the fact that the
claimant called the operator several times to notify them of the portability
incorrect, and despite this said portability materialized.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

START SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against LYCAMOBILE S.L.U. with NIF
1.
B92877141, for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the GDPR, which regulates the legality of the
processing of personal data, considered a very serious offense for the purposes
prescription according to article 72.1b) of the LOPDGDD, which is an infraction
tion of article 83.5 a) of the GDPR.

APPOINT as instructor B.B.B. and, as secretary, to C.C.C., indicating
1.
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sec-
public tor (LRJSP).

2.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

INCORPORATING into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

petition filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection during the information phase.
investigations, as well as the report of previous inspection actions.

3.
THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the san-
tion that may correspond would be €70,000 (SEVENTY THOUSAND EUROS), without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

4.
NOTIFY this agreement to LYCAMOBILE S.L.U. with NIF B92877141,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations.
nes and present the evidence that you deem appropriate. In his statement of pleadings
You must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading
of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed other than a fine, may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction that should be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros), resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the
corresponding measures.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at €42,000 (forty-two thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated, €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros) or €42,000 (forty-six thousand
two thousand euros), you must make it effective by depositing it into account number ES00

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
>>

SECOND: On March 30, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 42,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202203183, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to LYCAMOBILE S.L.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

936-040822

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

