 

video surveillance through
Bavarian public authorities

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
publishes practical new guidance

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, February 21, 2020

A number of Bavarian public bodies use video technology to
protect infrastructure and in the area of administrative buildings
and other public institutions contribute to safety
to be performed by citizens and employees. The Bavarian
In Art. 24 of the Bavarian Data Protection Act, the legislature has for such
The legal basis necessary for video surveillance was created.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection primarily advises
State and municipal authorities in the Free State regularly apply
this regulation. In addition, citizens ask again and again
Review of specific video surveillance systems. Often such are
systems are also the subject of Bavaria-wide data protection regulations
spot checks. Not infrequently they have to be changed or even disabled
because the legal framework for their operation has not been complied with.

In order to facilitate the application of the legal requirements, the
Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection now has a comprehensive
che published guidance, which his many years of consulting
summarized and developed in practice. Two additional provided
Forms enable Bavarian public bodies to carry out structured
Testing and documentation of video surveillance.

 

 
 
 
 
 

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from February 21st, 2020 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “The Bavarian legislature guarantees
long that video technology can be used where it is necessary. He
 
but at the same time ensures that there is no 'all-round surveillance'
comes. The legal possibilities and limits of video surveillance
ment shows my new guide based on numerous practical
play up. I hope that I can convey this to all Bavarian public authorities
can provide the necessary security to act on this sensitive topic.”

The guide “Video surveillance by Bavarian public
Bodies – Explanations on Article 24 of the Bavarian Data Protection Act”.
with the two forms for structured testing and documentation
since today on the homepage of the Bavarian State Commissioner for the
Data protection (https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de) in the section "Data
protection reform 2018” for free download.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. He is from Bavaria
elected by the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

