The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113
ico.org.uk

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

To: Finham Park Multi Academy Trust 

Of: Green Lane, Finham, Coventry, CV3 6EA 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Finham Park Multi Academy Trust (‘Finham Park’) in accordance with 
Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation in respect 
of certain alleged infringements of the UK GDPR.   

The reprimand 

The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Finham Park in 
respect of the following alleged infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 5(1)(f) which states:

“personal data shall be processed in a manner that ensures
appropriate security of the personal data, including protection
against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental
loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’)”.

• Article 32(1) which states:

“taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the
processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.”

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 

 

Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)(b) 
Technical and Organisational Measures – Access Controls  
 

•  Finham Park did not have appropriate technical measures in place 
to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of their systems. Finham 
Park had an inadequate account lockout policy, and reversible 
password encryption was enabled1. The National Cyber Security 
Centre (‘NCSC’) recommends having appropriate account lockout2 in 
place. Had these elements been addressed sooner, it could have 
significantly reduced the likelihood of a successful attack. 
 

•  Finham Park did not have multi-factor authentication (‘MFA’) in 

place. Extensive guidance was available via the NCSC which 
promotes the use of multi-factor authentication.3 Additional means 
of authentication serve to make unauthorised access more difficult 
and help to protect particularly sensitive personal data.  
 

•  Finham Park did not ensure that its employees had sufficient 

knowledge and understanding around the re-use of passwords. The 
NCSC emphasises that passwords should not be re-used across 
accounts4. Had Finham Park educated its employees on password 
management more effectively, it is possible that this incident could 
have been avoided. 
 

Aggravating factors 
 
Finham Park reported three similar incidents to the Commissioner and 
each time the Commissioner provided guidance to Finham Park, which set 
out the importance of implementing appropriate password policies and 
account management procedures. Finham Park failed to follow this 
guidance and failed to implement appropriate technical and organisational 
measures to secure its systems. The Commissioner’s Regulatory Action 
Policy sets out that where the Commissioner has issued advice, and this 
advice is not followed, the Commissioner will take this into account as an 
aggravating factor. 
 

 

1 Modify Authentication Process: Reversible Encryption, Sub-technique 
T1556.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK® 
2 Password policy: updating your approach - NCSC.GOV.UK 
3 Multi-factor authentication for online services - NCSC.GOV.UK 
4 Living with password re-use - NCSC.GOV.UK 

 

Remedial steps taken by Finham Park 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Finham Park in light of this incident. In particular, Finham Park 
restored its systems from backups, implemented MFA across the trust, 
and signed off a digital transformation project plan, which included 
credential monitoring. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
aggravating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to Finham Park in relation to the alleged infringements 
of Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
 

 

