GZ: DSB-D123.822/0005-DSB/2019 from 23.7.2019

 

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.]

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on Bernhard A***'s data protection complaint

(complainant) of November 24, 2018 against N*** Gesellschaft m.b.H.

(Respondent), represented by F*** Rechtsanwälte GmbH, for infringement

in the right to erasure and in the right to object as follows:

-  The complaint is dismissed as unsubstantiated .

Legal basis: Article 5 paragraph 1 letter a, Article 6 paragraph 1 letter a, Article 7 paragraph 3, Article 12 paragraph 4,

Art. 16, Art. 21, Art. 24 (1), Art. 25 (1), Art. 57 (1) lit. f and Art. 77 (1) of the

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR), OJ No. L 119

from May 4th, 2016, p. 1; Section 24 (1) and (5) of the Data Protection Act (DSG), Federal Law Gazette I

No. 165/1999 as amended.

REASON

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

1. With a submission dated November 24, 2018, the complainant claimed a

Violation of the right to erasure and the right to object. summarized

He is a customer of the N*** regular customer club and, by letter dated August 20, 2018,

partial deletion of detailed data of his purchases from the Respondent

requested. In a letter dated August 21, 2018, the Respondent informed

not to comply with the deletion request, since a partial deletion of individual

data fields from their systems is not possible. By letter dated August 21, 2018

he has the processing of personal data for personalized

Data evaluation (profiling), the processing of personal data "in the context of

Advertising” and the processing of personal data for personalized

“Revoke” data evaluation.

2. By letter dated December 20, 2018 (ha. received December 21, 2018)

the Respondent submitted in summary that they

customer loyalty program, the N*** regular customer club. As performance would

Discounts, credits and promotions are granted on purchases made before

payment process the customer card is presented. This requires that a

Register customer for the N*** regular customer club card. The complainant is

been offered to delete his data, but the complainant also

of further correspondence only the deletion of individual data fields in

meeting held. However, the GDPR is not a right to partial deletion and not a right

to a partial revocation of the processing. Furthermore, there is a deletion

of individual data fields is not technically possible.

3. By letter dated January 7, 2019, the complainant submitted, as indicated by the

Data protection authority commissioned, which the respondent issued to this

Information from July 4, 2018. On August 21, 2018 he approved all of them

Processing activities, with the exception of "Point 3 - Processing of personal

Data in the context of the customer account" and "Point 4 - Processing of personal

Data in the context of online use of the customer account”. Therefore, the

Legal basis for the processing of the purchase behavior and the processing after

"Point 5 - Processing of personal data in the context of advertising" and "Point

6 – Processing of personal data for personalized data analysis”. for

the granting of benefits and discounts is not the detailed purchasing behavior

necessary.

4. By letter dated January 25, 2019, the data protection authority requested the

Respondent to explain why the deletion of individual data fields

is technically not possible. The Respondent brought this about by letter dated

March 20, 2019 summarized that each of the individual customers

processed information in uniformly defined data fields in a relational

database are stored, which consist of many related tables

would. In each case, object-related information, such as article information,

Product groups, customer information and mailings stored in tables and individual

Attributes of these tables (data fields and columns) are related and

get connected. In turn, there are several applications on this database

based, as well as the customer database, the accounting system and the

merchandise management system. The latter enables more precise planning

Branch allocations (which branch gets which item in which quantity and when) and

for discounts that are limited to either branch, rayon, or state, or

extend across the entire federal territory. Predict as accurately as possible

Being able to know where which quantities to buy is to be expected is essential

Prerequisite for a functioning modern supply chain.

It was not technically possible for the Respondent to do this individually for each customer

set which data would be collected as part of the payment process.

Changing these processes would have serious technical and legal implications

Effects, because these "cash register data" also for the so-called "electronic

Journal" of the Respondent would be used and stored,

which, according to the legal requirements of the BAO and the RKSV, is the second till roll

replace The storage period of two years with regard to date, time and branch

necessary and appropriate to prove abuse. Also be him

Complainers about the two-year retention period in the privacy policy

been informed and have nevertheless registered for the N*** regular customer club.

In order to ensure that the IT system and the

The Respondent technically has to guarantee the customer loyalty program

implemented a "lock flag" in the system. If this is activated, the

Customer data no longer used for personalized discounts. A customer of the N***-

However, regular customer clubs continue to receive non-personalised, general mailings

with non-personalized discounts. Such general mailings would also

revoked consent can no longer be sent. To the interests of

To take account of the complainant, the respondent has the objection

of the complainant regarding the profiling activity of the respondent for the

Purpose of sending personalized discounts already by setting the technically im

System implemented blocking indicator implemented. It will continue to be offered

to delete all of the complainant's data in the N*** Regulars' Club.

5. The complainant then replied - according to the parties to the results of the

preliminary proceedings - summarized in his statement of April 1, 2019,

that the "technical complexity" referred to by the Respondent

cannot be a license not to care about data protection. Individual data fields

may not be erasable, but you can overwrite them and therefore

anonymize; only the referential integrity (primary and foreign keys) must

be assured.

B. Subject of Complaint

Based on the submissions of the appellant, it follows that

The subject of the complaint is whether the respondent is the complainant

thereby violated the right to erasure and the right to object by

his request of August 20, 2018 for deletion and his request for objection

dated August 21, 2018.

C. Findings of Facts

1. The Respondent operates a retail business with stores throughout

Austria. In this capacity, it also runs a customer loyalty program, den

N*** Regulars Club.

2. Participation in the customer loyalty program requires that a

Customer registered for the N*** regular customer club card and the data protection declaration

agree. The Respondent's privacy policy is as of August 21

2018 in excerpts as follows (formatting not reproduced 1:1):

"[...]
2. Scope of services with the N*** regular customer club card
 
In the following we describe the scope of services of our N***
Regulars Club Card.
 
2.1. Discounts, credits and promotions
As a service in your customer account, we grant you discounts, credits and
Promotions on your purchase. These can relate to individual items, specific
Assortments or the entire purchase and can relate to all or just one
be made available to certain groups of people. Required for this
is that you show your customer card before the payment process, which is used by our
employees is recorded digitally. Information on this can be found in our
advertising or in the branch. The national or regional actions are temporal
limited and may depend on the value of your purchase.
 
2.2. advertising
Advertising is any measure aimed at promoting the sale of (foreign) products. at
With the appropriate consent, we transmit advertising for products, goods
or services by e-mail, post or at the cash register. Should you choose to email
have decided as a communication channel, you will receive after the
Processing of your data from us again a separate confirmation e-mail. First
after clicking on the link contained therein, you will receive advertising e-mails.
 
[…]
 
 
2.6. Personalized data analysis (profiling)
Based on the personalized data analysis, we are able to understand your purchasing behavior
to be processed automatically. By evaluating your customer data such as the
We can offer our services in a more targeted and specific manner.
 
[...]
 
5. Processing of personal data in the context of advertising
 

With your declaration of consent to the receipt of advertising, we would like to inform you about
Notify current products, services, sweepstakes and promotions.
Profiling: To provide you with targeted and specific information and advertising about
current products, services, competitions, customer surveys and promotions
that match your purchasing behavior, we analyze your purchasing data, your
Participation in our promotions and you
usage behavior of our electronic media. To do this, we evaluate the following data:
 
Master data: name, place of residence, age, gender.
Buying behavior: place of purchase (branch), product and product category, use of offers
and promotions when purchasing the goods/products, length of participation/frequency and
Similarity determination with other of our customers.
 
If you have opted for a postal notification, we will process it
Your surname, first name, address and date of birth.
 
If you have opted for notification by e-mail, we will process it
Your previously verified email address and date of birth, if provided. Her
We process your date of birth in order to send you a birthday benefit
can or because we inform you about the availability of such a birthday present
want to inform.
 
This data processing is based on Art 6 Para 1 lit a GDPR and Art 7 GDPR and serves
receiving advertising.
 
6. Processing of personal data for personalized data analysis
 
Unless you have opted out of profiling, we will use your online
User behavior through automated processing of your personal data
Evaluate your buying behavior. We store your information in relation to your
buying behavior. Through this data processing we want our services
improve. To do this, we evaluate the following data:
 
Master data: name, place of residence, age, gender.
Buying behavior: place of purchase (branch), product and product category, use of offers
and promotions when purchasing the goods/products, length of participation/frequency and
Similarity determination with other of our customers.
 
This data processing is based on Art 22 Para 2 lit c, 6 Para 1 lit a, 7 GDPR and serves
of personalized data analysis.
 
[...]
 
8. Duration of storage
Your data on purchasing behavior will be stored for two years, the resulting profiling
Data is stored for five years and your annual sales for seven years. We delete
all your personal data in principle after you have left the
Customer program (end of contractual relationship), at the latest after all
statutory retention requirements."
 
2. The complainant has opted to participate in the N*** Regulars Club

registered and the Respondent's data protection declaration mentioned above

accepted.

3. Subsequently, the complainant has the deletion on August 20, 2018

certain data requested from the Respondent. That request is:

excerpts as follows (formatting not reproduced 1:1):

"[...]
 
Dear N*** team.
 
Thank you for providing the information about my processed data, in accordance with
Article 15 GDPR.
 
Printed on paper, the amount of data is tangible even for IT laypeople and is naturally stimulating
to think of.
 
I hereby ask you for the detailed data (branch, shopping time, article description, ...) of my
Delete purchases from D*** (details below) and no longer for a longer period in the future
Save period as the purchase and for billing purposes.
 
You can collect further aggregated data such as purchase amount (per purchase), total
per month and year, etc.
 
However, I ask you not to record any details longer than for the implementation of the
actual service = purchase necessary. I am aware and I accept
knowledge that you are not giving me any detailed article-related vouchers (which
are rarely suitable, by the way) and can offer promotions more for which
general actions such as ***Point collectors, however, will also suffice aggregated data
(e.g. purchase amount per month).
 
Detailed listing of the data to be deleted according to categories:
 
Purchasing information per purchase
 
Please delete:
· Column purchase date the time
· Column Filale the branch (you are welcome to save the federal state, therefore e.g
instead of 3023
3XXX).
 
Purchasing information in detail
 
Please delete:
· Purchase date column: the time
· Branch column: the branch (Federal state is sufficient, therefore eg 3XXX instead of 3023).
· Article description column: Article description
 
mail items
 
Please delete all information about mail items
 
Product groups of the total turnover
 
Please delete the data, or at least the text or part.
I would also ask you not to enter this data per category in the future.
Ideally, they will offer their customers in the future via their website itself
to be able to configure which data is processed for a longer period of time.

[...]"

4. In addition, the complainant, in a further letter dated 21

August 2018 requested the following from the respondent (formatting not 1:1

reproduced):

“[…] I assume this is a standard answer because technically
there is no valid reason why one should not be selective about records in databases
delete (anonymize) can.
 
Anyway, I care about the detailed purchasing information about each one
Purchase, in particular the exact time of purchase, branch and item description.
 
As far as I understand, the survey according to
https://www.n***.at/Footer_Nav_seiten/***Datenschutz/dd_bi_***page.aspx des
detailed shopping behavior (exact time of purchase, branch and article) at:
 
2.6. Personalized data analysis (profiling)
 
5. Processing of personal data in the context of advertising, as well as
 
6. Processing of personal data for personalized data analysis
 
Therefore if I give my consent to:
 
2.6. Personalized data analysis (profiling)
 
5. Processing of personal data in the context of advertising, as well as
 
6. Processing of personal data for personalized data analysis
revoked, the following data will no longer be stored or the current one
saved deleted
(Date/time, article description and branch).
 
If so, I hereby revoke the processing of my personal data
to the
 
2.6. Personalized data analysis (profiling)
 
5. Processing of personal data in the context of advertising, as well as
 
6. Processing of personal data for personalized data analysis
 
Note on advertising. You are welcome to send me advertising, no problem,
however I see
no reason why they necessarily purchase location (branch), product and product category
require.
Even with a statistic about the shopping behavior in the district, they can do a lot
send targeted advertising.
 
[...]"
 
4. By letter dated August 21, 2018, the Respondent dem

Complainant informed, the partial request for cancellation and the

not to comply with the partial request for objection. The reason given was

that a partial deletion of individual data fields is not possible. the

However, the Respondent offers to store all of the Complainant's data in the N***-

to delete the regular customer club.

5. The Respondent has in connection with the bonus program

implemented a "lock flag" in the existing system. Will this with regard to

a specific data record of a customer is activated, the data of the customer are not

more used for personalized discounts. This blocking indicator was

Complainant set.

Evidence assessment: The findings made are based on the input of the

Complainant dated November 24, 2018 and the correspondence submitted

between the complainant and the respondent before the complaint procedure

the data protection authority, and the submitted copy of the privacy statement

of the Respondent as of August 21, 2018.

D. In legal terms it follows that:

1. For the partial exercise of data subject rights according to Chapter III GDPR

The constitutionally guaranteed right to

Deletion of illegally processed data is now based on the provisions of Art. 17

GDPR, the right to object to direct advertising that does not require justification

according to the requirements postulated in Art. 21 Para. 2 GDPR.

The right to object is related to the right to erasure insofar as

a (successful) objection pursuant to Article 17 (1) (c) GDPR to the person responsible

obliged to delete it immediately. Furthermore, the partial revocation of

Consent within the meaning of Art. 4 Z 11 DSGVO, which the complainant apparently sent to the

Respondent has directed, pursuant to Art. 17 (1) lit. b to a corresponding

obligation to delete.

The enforcement of the rights mentioned is in Art. 12 Para. 3 DSGVO in the way

regulated that the deletion (possibly on the occasion of the objection) - on request - within

of one month and the person concerned a corresponding one

Notification is to be made, or the data subject within this period pursuant to Art. 12

Paragraph 4 GDPR must be informed why no (complete) deletion

takes place. The person responsible has to check the databases with regard to this

to carry out the request for deletion or objection; this process is subject

control by the data protection authority.

In the present case, the Respondent argued that the GDPR

no right to partial deletion and no right to partial objection

be taken.

The data protection authority has already dealt with the question of whether the rights of data subjects are partial, i.e.

merely with regard to certain personal data, can be exercised with

Notice of December 5, 2018 on GZ DSB-D123.211/0004-DSB/2018

discussed and noted the following:

"There is no doubt that the person concerned, in the case of an application-related right -
such as that according to § 27 Para. 1 Z 2 DSG 2000 - must be free, as a "minus" also the
Request deletion of only part of the data (partial right of deletion). this
arises on the one hand from the above-cited decision of the Supreme Court ("Although § 28
Para. 2 DSG [2000] only speaks of an objection to being included in a file,
the person concerned is free to delete only a part of the data as a mere minus
to request entry") but also from the fact that certain personal data
(i.e. also parts of a data record) of a person concerned no longer meets the requirements of the
Accuracy or timeliness may correspond, while this is still the case for other parts of the data
may be the case. In this case it must be possible, even only parts of the data set
to be deleted in order to continue to comply with the principles of § 6 DSG 2000.

If a client/responsible person believes that a partial
If a request for deletion cannot be met, the relevant ones are relevant
Reasons - within the period provided for this purpose - to inform the person concerned, namely
in a way that is beneficial for the person concerned, but also for the
Data protection authority, which (now according to Art. 77 DSGVO) can be called upon,
it is understandable why the request was not (fully) complied with (cf.
in relation to the right to information, the decision of the data protection authority of
27 October 2014, GZ DSB-D122.215/0004-DSB/2014)."

Against the background of the consideration that it is the intention of the

European legislator was to strengthen the rights of those affected (cf. the finding

of the Federal Administrative Court of September 27, 2018, GZ W214 2127449-1), there is no apparent reason

not to transfer this Rsp to the new legal situation. The data protection authority leaves

therefore also according to the current legal situation, it is assumed that data subject rights

in principle also partially, i.e. only with regard to certain personal data,

can be exercised

2. On the accountability of a controller

Unlike the decision of the data protection authority of December 5 cited in the quotation

2018 underlying facts, the Respondent in the present

Case further brought up that the implementation of a partial contradiction

or a partial deletion of personal data in your system technically

cannot be implemented.

In this context, the first point to be made is that anchored in the GDPR

Pointing out the accountability of a person responsible:

According to Art. 5 Para. 2 GDPR is a person responsible for compliance with the GDPR

inherent principles, including the principle of fair processing

Faith according to paragraph 1 lit. a leg. cit., responsible and must ensure compliance

can prove.

Subsequently, Art. 24 Para. 1 GDPR standardizes in a similar way that a

Responsible taking into account the type, scope, circumstances and

Purposes of the processing as well as the different probability of occurrence and

Appropriate severity of the risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals

has to implement technical and organizational measures to ensure and

to be able to prove that the processing is carried out in accordance with this

Regulation made.

Aspects of accountability can also be found in Art. 25 (1) GDPR

enshrined principle of "Privacy through Technology", according to which the means of processing,

i.e. products, services and applications, both at the time of determination

the means for processing and at the time of the actual processing

are to be chosen in such a way that the requirements of the GDPR can be met (cf.

Baumgartner in Ehmann/Selmayr (eds.), DS-GVO2 [2018] Art. 25 margin no. 2; see also

Hötzendorfer in Gantschacher/Jelinek/Schmidl/Spanberger (eds.), Commentary on

General Data Protection Regulation [2017] Art. 25 Note 3).

Based on this accountability, it can be stated in general that a

responsible for compliance with its obligations imposed by the GDPR

can thereby withdraw by making such unsuitable technical and organizational

takes measures that make it impossible for him, among other things, to respond to the requests of those affected

to match people.

3. To the bonus program (N*** regular customer club)

In the present case, the Respondent offered to transfer all data of the

to delete the complainant in the N*** regular customer club. Nevertheless, it must be checked whether

it is also obliged to do so, taking into account the type, scope and circumstances

and the purposes of the processing as well as the different probability of occurrence

and the seriousness of the technical and technical risks of the processing in question

to take organizational measures to meet the partial applications of the

to comply with the complainant.

In the decision of December 5, 2018 cited above, the data protection authority assumed this

from that a credit bureau requiring the partial deletion of certain information

refuses and deletes all personal data in excess, against the

Principle of good faith processing in accordance with Article 5(1)(a) GDPR

acts. The main consideration was that the economic advancement of a

data subject who merely wants the complete deletion or correction of their

Information from a creditworthiness database can request, made more difficult or prevented

is, since companies regularly make business decisions from the identification

make dependent on a person in a credit rating database.

However, such a risk is not recognizable in the present case:

The result of a complete deletion, which the Respondent also offered

would not impede or prevent economic advancement,

only that the complainant no longer participates in the N*** customer club

and can take advantage of the associated benefits; such

According to current general life experience, there are no perks either

such an economic advantage, that of a disadvantage for those customers

would be assumed that do not participate in the N *** customer club.

The DPA believes that the fundamental right to protection

personal data in accordance with Art. 8 Para. 1 EU-GRC, which is contained in the GDPR

is concretized, can not only be understood as a defensive right, but that a

affected person independently within the scope of their informational self-determination

- of course within certain limits - about the handling of their personal data

can dispose of data (cf. the decision of the DSB of March 7, 2019, GZ DSB-

D130.033/0003-DSB/2019 and from November 30, 2018, GZ DSB-D122.931/0003-

DSB/2018).

Based on this, the data protection authority is also of the opinion that a data subject

person consent with regard to participation in bonus programs to which it

inherent is that certain information is collected from participants and in return

for this, discounts, credits and promotions are provided, among those set out in the

GDPR mentioned requirements.

An essential requirement for such consent is a sufficient level of

Being informed (cf. recital 32 first sentence GDPR) and are sufficient guarantees (cf.

Art. 24 para. 1 GDPR) to protect the rights and freedoms of a data subject.

This was initially confirmed by the Respondent through a corresponding

Privacy Policy guaranteed to the complainant before registering with

N *** regular customer club was undisputedly available for information. In this

The data protection declaration is also informed, among other things, that the data "Purchasing behavior:

Place of purchase (branch), product and product category, use of offers and promotions

when purchasing the goods/products, duration of participation/frequency and similarity determination

processed with other of our customers”; also was expressly about the the

corresponding storage period. Misleading or deceiving by the

Respondent with regard to the processing of personal data

therefore not before.

Furthermore, the Respondent has in its with the bonus program in

Related system implemented a "lock flag" to a

implement any objection by a data subject to profiling activities

be able.

Furthermore, there are no indications that the collected

personal data of the complainant inadmissibly (further) used

or that other obligations imposed by the GDPR, such as in particular

the obligation to ensure the security of processing in accordance with Art. 32 GDPR,

would be injured; however, it should be noted that any violation

of these obligations was also not criticized by the complainant and therefore

was not the subject of the investigation.

Finally, it should be noted that the GDPR according to Art. 1 Para. 2 in conjunction with Recital 4 second set

not only serves to protect personal data, but an appropriate one

Compensation with the other rights recognized in the European legal area and

freedoms should be created. A partial deletion, as by the complainant

desired, but in the present case would mean that the Respondent

your bonus program, the design of which you decide within the framework of private autonomy and in

within the framework of their freedom to work, cannot operate.

4. Result

Taking all of these considerations into account, the complainant is specific

If no right to concede to the N *** customer club under unilateral determination of the

to participate in the processed data categories and is therefore not subject to any violation of the

Principle of good faith processing in accordance with Article 5 (1) (a) GDPR

as well as the accountability according to Art. 24 Para. 1 DSGVO and subsequently also from

no violation of the right to erasure according to Art. 17 GDPR and the right to

Objection according to Art. 21 GDPR.

As a result, the complainant has the partial request for deletion and the

partial application for objection was rightly not complied with and was also not required,

to take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure this

enable.

It was therefore to be decided accordingly.

