

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data in connection with the acquisition and storage of copies of identity cards in the non-banking sector (UOOU-03541/20)
Hotel


The inspection was initiated on the basis of
complaints of a Polish citizen through the system for the exchange of information about
internal market (IMI). This complaint concerned the unauthorized processing of personal data
data, specifically taking scans of identity cards and their others
processing by a controlled person. The subject of the inspection was
compliance with personal data protection obligations when conducting business activities
natural persons doing business, in particular Articles 5 to 7 and Articles 13 to 22 of the General Regulation
with respect to that person's client database. The inspectors found that the subject was taking scans
of citizenship and other identity documents when concluding accommodation contracts, allegedly
on the basis of consents of data subjects. However, she was unable to document these consents. To proccess
she did not have the personal data listed on the scans of her clients' identity cards
the controlled person no reason, thus violated Article 6, paragraph 1 of the general regulation. Controlled
the person was not able to document even the granting of consent according to Article 7, paragraph 1 of the general regulation,
further violated the principle according to Article 5 paragraph 1 letter c) of the general regulation according to which
personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to the necessary scope in
relation to the purpose for which they are processed (data minimization).

Records of processing activities that the controlled person has documented, in addition
did not contain information according to Article 30 paragraph 1 letter a) and b) of the general regulation. Specifically
it was about the absence of communication of the purpose of processing in the case of processing for
for the purpose of providing information about the foreigners staying at the residence to the foreign police a
in the case of processing for the purpose of keeping a record book.

Provisions were also violated
Articles 13 to 22 of the general regulation, when the controlled person of his duties
(information obligation and obligations arising from the rights of data subjects)
she fulfilled only verbally, while she was unable to prove that towards clients
proceeded correctly and transparently according to Article 12, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the general regulation. The controlled person did not object
objection control protocol. In the subsequent administrative proceedings, the Office
imposed a fine and corrective measures.

Links
Control report (UOOU-03541/20) [PDF, 334 kB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Provision of goods and services > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the acquisition and by keeping copies of identity cards in the non-banking sector (UOOU-03541/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



