

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities of the Ministry of Transport - processing of personal data in connection with the awarding of public contracts



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data by the Ministry of Transport as part of the procurement procedure for the purpose of selecting a new supplier of the public contract for the electronic toll system.

The inspection revealed that part of the procurement documentation for the public contract in question also included personal data of employees of Kapsch Telematic Services spol. s.r.o., who participated in the operation of the electronic toll system as part of their employment with this company. The personal data of the employees of the said company were made available only to a part of the applicants for the public contract, because the controlled person had already anonymized the tender documentation during the tender procedure.

According to the Office, the disclosure of personal data within the procurement documentation for a public contract to unauthorized persons on the basis of inspection findings was due to the absence of appropriate measures to ensure the security of processed personal data on the part of the inspected person.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office found a violation of § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (security of personal data). Considering that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures. Following the aforementioned findings, the Office will initiate proceedings for a misdemeanor in the matter.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Ministry of Transport - processing of personal data in connection with the awarding of public contractsView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



