 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Publication of the 31st activity report 2021
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
presents the results of his work in 2021

Munich, May 25, 2022

The COVID-19 pandemic has already been the focus of my activity report for the
Year 2020. However, my report for 2021 still contains numerous contributions that
deal with data protection in this context – however, there is a differentiation
to state: many fundamental questions have been clarified; in auditing and consulting practice
xis, it was now about data protection in mask exemption certificates, in which
Monitoring of 2G or 3G regulations and in connection with the test and
Vaccination management (see overview article no. 1.1). In addition, we have already
the "non-pandemic" data protection issues, some of which I will briefly mention
want to address:

Bavarian public authorities often turn to me for advice because they
want to use applications from countries that do not fall within the scope of the data
subject to the General Data Protection Regulation. There are quite complex data protection
legal questions. I have prepared what needs to be considered in this respect and tried to
way through the thicket of relevant court decisions and guidelines, in particular
to be assigned to the Union level (Contribution No. 2.2); the range of information in this
rich I will continue to expand in the current year.

In the area of police and justice, I was concerned with data protection for reliability
reviews as part of accreditation procedures for a long time. in the
period of time, a legal regulation of this by the police in the case of large
instruments used at events (Article No. 3.2), which recently also
approved by the Bavarian Constitutional Court. The data protection check
identification service measures on the occasion of the prosecution of
The result was that the police were sensitized – in this “field of crime”
sometimes more intrusive prosecution measures cannot be taken in accordance with the law
be set (article no. 3.3). A practical, helpful contribution shows how easy it is to
unsuspectingly - and illegally - in the police state security information
system can be saved (article no. 3.6).

Data protection issues of general interest also arose in the area of general
internal administration. Data processing by expert committees for investigating
Development of property values (article no. 5.1) seems a little at first glance
bulky topic - its presentation, however, creates a basis for the data protection
compliant work of these bodies, which are important in real estate transactions. Reach out from municipalities
I keep getting questions about the extent to which motions for citizens’ meetings are published
be allowed to become light and what data

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

Publication of the 31st activity report
BayLfD | press release

 

must be observed under protective law. Two contributions (No. 5.2 and 5.4) give practical examples
Answers.

In the area of "Health and Social Affairs" I would like to draw your attention to one contribution in particular
sam, which is dedicated to data protection in the implementation of the Measles Protection Act
met (No. 7.2). Here it is easy to observe the difficulties encountered when introducing a
ner vaccination obligation occur. A detailed article applies to the notification obligations of the medical
schen service of the health insurance companies to the service providers in the event of treatment errors
have been assessed (No. 7.10).

As far as the area of personnel administration in Bavarian public bodies is concerned,
my activity report deals with two new regulations, among other things. That's it
This includes the storage that I have long mentioned as requiring regulation
of documents about official assessments, I come to a predominantly
positive conclusion (article no. 8.2). When extending the retention period for aid
the responsible normative fiscal interests the data protection concerns
brought forward - a decision that I very much regret (article no. 8.3).

I have received a number of complaints from schools and universities about the full
achieved in accordance with the Bavarian Distance Testing Ordinance. My occupation
richt picks out such a case as an example and shows what universities can do in this respect
data protection view can do everything wrong. It becomes clear that it is worthwhile to create new
Critically accompany the process from the start and aim for an immediate remedy
Work towards deficiencies as soon as they occur (article no. 9.2).

From the contributions to the “Technology and Organization” section I have a few
considerations for data protection-compliant design of digitization processes
ranged. Based on observations made during the COVID-19 pandemic, these
weighings are of particular concern to me. Regardless of the pandemic, I can say about one
Complaint after the loss of application documents at a Bavarian public
report to a public body (article no. 10.7) and finally about a "data
tenpanne”, in which the principle of confidentiality of personal data is central
was impressively missed on a Danube bridge (article no. 10.9).

As every year, my activity report includes a colorful bouquet of all the questions
which I contact due to complaints and control suggestions, requests for advice
public authorities, within the framework of standard-setting procedures and in committee work
have employed. I hope that the state authorities, the municipalities and the rest
Those responsible in the public sector in the Free State of Bavaria are just as useful as
the Bavarian citizens and that it helps to improve business processes
public administration to be data protection-compliant as far as possible from the outset.

The best data protection does not work through complaints, warnings or fines, but
rather by way of prevention. For this reason, the activity report is only a – if
same particularly traditional - means of information work. Also in the reporting period
numerous publications have emerged in my office, which fundamentally
familiar, current or particularly practical aspects of data protection. Of the
Article No. 2.1 gives an overview of this.

2

 

Publication of the 31st activity report
BayLfD | press release

 

The 31st activity report will be available on my as of Wednesday 25 May 2022 at 11:00 am
Homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the “Activity Reports” section for
call ready. The printed version can be obtained under "Order brochures". Of the
Activity report is free of charge in all versions.

I am available to interested journalists for interviews and inquiries
to disposal. To make an appointment, please contact my office
(Telephone: 089 212672-12, email: vorzimmer@datenschutz-bayern.de).

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 

3

