ANNUAL
REPORT
2022

STREAMLINING 
ENFORCEMENT 
THROUGH 
COOPERATION

1

EDPB Annual Report 2022An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of key EDPB 
activities in 2022, is also available. Further details about the EDPB can be found 
on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1   GLOSSARY 
2   FOREWORD 
3   2022 – HIGHLIGHTS 

3.1.  ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION 

3.1.1. 

3.1.2. 

3.1.3. 

Vienna statement on 
enforcement cooperation 

Guidelines 02/2022 on the 
application of Art. 60 GDPR 

Guidelines 04/2022 on the 
calculation of administrative 
fines under the GDPR 

3.2.  2022 ARTICLE 65 DECISIONS 

3.2.1. 

3.2.2. 

Decision 01/2022 on the 
dispute arisen on the draft 
decision of the French 
Supervisory Authority 
regarding Accor SA under Art. 
65(1)(a) GDPR 

Binding Decision 2/2022 
on the dispute arisen on 
the draft decision of the 
Irish Supervisory Authority 
regarding Meta Platforms 
Ireland Limited (Instagram) 
under Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR 

4

7

9

9

10

10

11

12

12

12

3.2.3. 

3.2.4. 

Binding Decision 3/2022 on 
the dispute submitted by the 
Irish SA on Meta Platforms 
Ireland Limited and its 
Facebook service (Art. 65 
GDPR) and Binding Decision 
4/2022 on the dispute 
submitted by the Irish SA 
on Meta Platforms Ireland 
Limited and its Instagram 
service (Art. 65 GDPR) 

Binding Decision 5/2022 on 
the dispute submitted by the 
Irish SA regarding WhatsApp 
Ireland Limited (Art. 65 GDPR) 

4   2022 - THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 

4.1.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 

4.2.  EDPB BUDGET 

4.3. 

IT COMMUNICATION TOOLS 

4.4.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT’S 

ACTIVITIES RELATING TO ACCESS 
TO DOCUMENTS 

4.5.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT’S DATA 

PROTECTION OFFICER ACTIVITIES 

13

14

16

16

17

17

17

18

5   ACTIVITIES IN 2022 

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD - 
20

5.1.  BINDING DECISIONS 

20

5.1.1. 

5.1.2. 

5.1.3. 

5.1.4. 

Decision 01/2022 on the 
draft decision of the French 
Supervisory Authority 
regarding Accor SA under Art. 
65(1)(a) GDPR 

Binding Decision 2/2022 
on the draft decision of the 
Irish Supervisory Authority 
regarding Meta Platforms 
Ireland Limited (Instagram) 
under Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR 

Binding Decision 3/2022 on 
the dispute submitted by the 
Irish SA on Meta Platforms 
Ireland Limited and its 
Facebook service (Art. 65 
GDPR) and Binding Decision 
4/2022 on the dispute 
submitted by the Irish SA 
on Meta Platforms Ireland 
Limited and its Instagram 
service (Art. 65 GDPR)  

Binding Decision 5/2022 on 
the dispute submitted by the 
Irish SA regarding WhatsApp 
Ireland Limited (Art. 65 GDPR) 

5.2.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 

5.2.1. 

5.2.2. 

5.2.3. 

5.2.4. 

Opinions on draft decisions 
regarding Binding Corporate 
Rules 

Opinions on draft 
requirements for 
accreditation of a 
certification body 

Opinions on certification criteria  24

Opinions on SAs’ approval of 
accreditation requirements 
for code of conduct 
monitoring body 

25

5.3.  GENERAL GUIDANCE 

5.3.1. 

5.3.2. 

5.3.3. 

5.3.4. 

5.3.5. 

5.3.6. 

5.3.7. 

5.3.8. 

5.3.9. 

Guidelines 01/2022 on data 
subject rights - Right of access 

Guidelines 02/2022 on the 
application of Art. 60 GDPR 

Guidelines 03/2022 on 
deceptive design patterns 
in social media platform 
interfaces: how to recognise 
and avoid them 

Guidelines 04/2022 on the 
calculation of administrative 
fines under the GDPR 

Guidelines 05/2022 on the 
use of facial recognition 
technology in the area of law 
enforcement 

Guidelines 06/2022 on the 
practical implementation of 
amicable settlements 

Guidelines 07/2022 on 
certification as tool for transfers  27

Guidelines 8/2022 on 
identifying a controller or 
processor’s LSA 

Guidelines 9/2022 on 
personal data breach 
notification under GDPR 

5.3.10. 

Guidelines adopted after 
public consultation 

5.4.  REGISTER FOR DECISIONS TAKEN 

BY SA AND COURTS ON ISSUES 
HANDLED IN THE CONSISTENCY 
MECHANISM 

25

25

26

26

26

27

27

28

28

28

29

20

21

21

22

22

22

24

EDPB Annual Report 20225.5.  LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

AND DOCUMENTS ADDRESSED 
TO THE EU INSTITUTIONS OR 
NATIONAL AUTHORITIES 
5.5.1. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 
1/2022 on the extension 
of the Covid-19 certificate 
Regulation 

5.5.2. 

5.5.3. 

5.5.4. 

5.5.5. 

5.5.6. 

5.5.7. 

5.5.8. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 
2/2022 on the Proposal of 
the European Parliament and 
of the Council on harmonised 
rules on fair access to and 
use of data (Data Act) 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 
03/2022 on the Proposal for 
a Regulation on the European 
Health Data Space 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 
04/2022 on the Proposal for 
a Regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council 
laying down rules to prevent 
and combat child sexual abuse 

Statement 01/2022 on 
the announcement of an 
agreement in principle on 
a new Trans-Atlantic Data 
Privacy Framework 

Statement 04/2022 on the 
design choices for a digital 
euro from the privacy and 
data protection perspective 

Response of the EDPB to 
the European Commission’s 
targeted consultation on a 
digital Euro 

Statement on the 
implications of the CJEU 
judgement C-817/19 on the 
use of PNR in Member States 

30

30

30

31

32

33

33

33

34

34

34

35

35

35

36

36

36

37

37

37

5.6.  OTHER GUIDANCE AND 
INFORMATION NOTES 
5.6.1. 

Statement 02/2022 on 
personal data transfers to the 
Russian Federation 

5.7.  GDPR COOPERATION AND 

ENFORCEMENT 
5.7.1. 

Statement on enforcement 
cooperation 

5.7.2. 

5.7.3. 

EDPB Document on the 
selection of cases of strategic 
importance 

Coordinated Enforcement 
Framework 

5.7.4. 

Support Pool of Experts 

5.8.  PLENARY MEETINGS AND 

SUBGROUPS 

5.9.  STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 

5.9.1. 

5.9.2. 

5.9.3. 

Stakeholder events  

Public consultation on draft 
guidance 

Survey on practical 
application of adopted guidance  38

5.10.  EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF 

THE BOARD 

6  SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY               

ACTIVITIES IN 2022 

39

40

6.1.  CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION 

40

6.1.1. 

Preliminary procedure 
to identify the Lead and 
Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities 

40

6.1.2. 

Database regarding cases 
with a cross-border component  41

EDPB Annual Report 20226.1.3. 

6.1.4. 

6.1.5. 

One-Stop-Shop Mechanism 
and decisions 

Mutual Assistance 

Joint Operations 

6.2.  NATIONAL CASES 

6.2.1. 

Some relevant national cases 
with exercise of corrective 
powers 

6.3.  SA SURVEY - BUDGET AND STAFF 

7  COORDINATED SUPERVISION  

COMMITTEE OF THE LARGE EU    
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND 
OF EU BODIES, OFFICES AND         
AGENCIES 

8   ANNEXES 

8.1.  GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED 

IN 2022 

8.2.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS AND 
DECISIONS ADOPTED IN 2022 

41

51

51

51

51

69

70

72

72

72

8.3. 

JOINT OPINIONS ADOPTED  IN 2022  74

8.4.  LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

8.5.  OTHER DOCUMENTS 

8.6.  LIST OF EXPERT SUBGROUPS 

AND TASKFORCES WITH SCOPE 
OF MANDATES 

74

75

76

EDPB Annual Report 20221

GLOSSARY

Adequacy decision

Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) 

An implementing act adopted by the European Commission, stating 
that a non-EU country ensures an adequate level of protection of 
personal data.

Data  protection  policies  adhered  to  by  controllers  or  processors 
established in the EU for transfers of personal data to controllers or 
processors outside the EU within a group of undertakings or enterprises 
or groups of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity.

Charter of Fundamental Rights of 
the EU  

A legally binding Charter that sets out the civil, political, economic, social 
and cultural rights of EU citizens and residents (including the right to the 
protection of personal data in its Art. 8).

Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs)

A Supervisory Authority concerned by the processing of personal data 
because: (a) the controller or processor is established on the territory 
of its Member State; (b) data subjects residing in the Member State are 
substantially affected by the processing; or (c) a complaint has been 
lodged with that Supervisory Authority.

Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU) 

The highest court in the EU judiciary system, which ensures uniform 
interpretation and application of EU law in EU Member States. It ensures 
those States and EU institutions abide by EU law.

Cross-border processing

Either (a) processing of personal data that takes place in the context of 
the activities of establishments in more than one Member State due to 
the controller or processor being established in more than one Member 
State; or (b) processing of personal data that takes place in the context of 
the activities of a controller or processor established in a single Member 
State, but which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect 
data subjects in more than one Member State.

4

EDPB Annual Report 2022Data controller

Data minimisation

Data processor

Data Protection Impact 
Assessment (DPIA)

The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body that, 
alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the 
processing of personal data; where the purposes and means of such 
processing are determined by EU or Member State law, the controller or 
the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or 
Member State law.

A principle that means that personal data shall be adequate, relevant 
and limited to what is necessary  in relation to the purposes for which 
they are processed.

A natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which 
processes personal data on behalf of the controller.

An impact assessment aiming to evaluate the processing of personal 
data, including notably a description of the processing and its purposes, 
an assessment of the  necessity and proportionality, an assessment of 
the risks for the rights and freedom of individuals, and the measures 
envisaged to address the risks.

Data Protection Officer (DPO)

An expert on data protection, who operates independently within an 
organisation to ensure the internal application of data protection.

Data subject

European Commission

European Economic Area (EEA) 
Member States

European Union (EU)

General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR)

Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA)

The person whose personal data is processed.

An EU institution that shapes the EU’s overall strategy, proposes new EU 
laws and policies, monitors their implementation and manages the EU 
budget.

EU Member States and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. 

An economic and political union between 27 European countries.

An EU Regulation that sets out rules on the rights of data subjects, the 
duties of data controllers and processors processing personal data, 
international data transfers and the powers of Supervisory Authorities.

The Supervisory Authority where the “main establishment” of a data 
controller or processor is based, which has the primary responsibility for 
dealing with a cross-border data processing activity and for coordinating 
any cross-border investigation.

5

EDPB Annual Report 2022Main establishment 

One-Stop-Shop mechanism

Personal data

Processing

Either (a) as regards a controller with establishments in more than one 
Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union; 
unless the decisions on the purposes and means of the processing of 
personal  data  are  taken  in  another  establishment  of  the  controller 
in the Union and the latter establishment has the power to have such 
decisions implemented, in which case the establishment having taken 
such decisions is to be considered to be the main establishment; or (b) 
as regards a processor with establishments in more than one Member 
State, the place of its central administration in the Union; or, if the 
processor has no central administration in the Union, the establishment 
of the processor in the Union where the main processing activities in the 
context of the activities of an establishment of the processor take place 
to the extent that the processor is subject to specific obligations under 
the GDPR.

A  mechanism  whereby  the  Supervisory  Authority  with  the  “main 
establishment” of a controller or processor in the EU serves as the Lead 
Supervisory  Authority  to  ensure  cooperation  between  Supervisory 
Authorities in the case of cross-border processing.

Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person 
(‘data  subject’);  an  identifiable  natural  person  is  one  who  can  be 
identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier 
such  as  a  name,  an  identification  number,  location  data,  an  online 
identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, 
genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural 
person.

Any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data 
or sets of personal data, whether or not by automated means, such as 
collection,  recording,  organisation,  structuring,  storage,  adaptation 
or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, 
dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, 
restriction, erasure or destruction.

Standard Contractual Clauses 

(SCCs)

Supervisory Authority (SA) or 
Data Protection Authority (DPA)

A set of contractual clauses that provide adequate safeguards for data 
transfers from the EU or the EEA to third countries and govern the 
relationship between involved controllers and processors.

An independent public supervisory body that monitors the application 
of the GDPR and other national laws relating to data protection, in order 
to protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation to the 
processing of personal data. 

Third country

A country outside the EU and EEA.

6

EDPB Annual Report 20222

FOREWORD

It is my pleasure to introduce the fifth Annual Report of the European Data Protection 
Board (EDPB), also the last one published during my mandate as EDPB Chair. 

Once again, this Report clearly demonstrates how much work is done by the EDPB in 
the span of a year, in terms of issuing guidance, consistency documents, legal advice 
and adopting binding decisions. What is also abundantly clear from this report is how 
the role of the EDPB has changed. 

Today, we are much further than we were in 2018. The GDPR is at the heart of the 
newly adopted digital single market legislation, which will determine how large online 
platforms operate in the decades to come. Enforcement of data protection is now 
making headlines every week. Organisations worldwide are aware they cannot do 
business in Europe without complying with the GDPR.  

Today, the EDPB is a major player in the European Economic Area (EEA) digital economy. 
It does not just ensure that data protection law is applied consistently across the EEA, 
but it helps shape Europe’s digital future.  

On top of being a source of guidance and legal advice, the EDPB has taken a series of 
important binding decisions in concrete cases in the past year. These decisions have a 

7

far-reaching impact and the potential to change the way large digital players handle our 
personal data, today and in the future. We thereby help redress a balance that has been 
tipped too far in favour of large tech companies. 

While enforcement has accelerated, there is still a lot we can and are planning to do to 
make sure the GDPR has the largest impact possible on the protection of people’s data 
protection rights. 

In April 2022, EDPB members gathered in my hometown Vienna with a view to 
finding solutions for more efficient enforcement cooperation. This meeting signalled 
a commitment of all Data Protection Authorities’ (DPA) to deepen cooperation. 
Numerous initiatives to increase the DPAs’ capacity to enforce were agreed upon. 
We also adopted a list of national administrative procedures that we would like to 
see streamlined. It is very positive that the European Commission has agreed to take 
a legislative initiative for greater harmonisation of these procedures, as this will help 
unlock the GDPR’s potential. 

It is also important to underline that the depth and breadth of our work could not 
have materialised without the efforts of everyone involved at the EDPB, and, not in 
the least, at the EDPB Secretariat. The EDPB Secretariat is a small and very dedicated 
group of people, without whose efforts and expertise the EDPB would not be able 
to achieve everything it sets out to do. It is important that we continue to supply the 
Secretariat with sufficient resources, so that they can provide much needed logistical, 
administrative and analytical and legal support to the EDPB. 

The first five years of the EDPB’s existence were the beginning of a process, whereby 
this new EU body gradually expanded its impact. The next five years will almost certainly 
bring new challenges, with even more enforcement and, as a result, more litigation too. 
I am confident that the EDPB will successfully face these new challenges, under the 
leadership of my successor.  

Andrea Jelinek  

Chair of the European Data Protection Board

8

EDPB Annual Report 20223

2022 – HIGHLIGHTS

3.1.  ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION

The EDPB plays a key role in enforcing data protection 
laws. It ensures consistent enforcement and promotes 
enforcement cooperation amongst SAs. In addition, 
for a small number of complex cases on which SAs 
cannot agree via consensus, the EDPB takes binding 
decisions.

“Consistent enforcement is at the heart 
of the EDPB’s work.”

- Dr Andrea Jelinek, Chair of the EDPB

Since the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
started applying, the EDPB has focused attention and 
effort  on  ensuring  consistent  enforcement  based 
on cooperation. Following the vision laid down in its 
2021-2023 Strategy, this continues to be a high priority 
for the EDPB. In that respect, in 2022, the EDPB’s work 

on enforcement cooperation shifted into a higher gear, 
particularly through the numerous initiatives taken to 
streamline enforcement cooperation among SAs.

It is worth highlighting the following initiatives:

• 

• 

• 

A  number  of  taskforces  have  worked  on  key 
topics  with  a  cross-border  dimension.  This  has 
led to a consistent approach by the SAs on topics 
such as Google Analytics and cookie banners.

Following  the  creation  of  the  Coordinated 
Enforcement Framework in 2021 for simultaneous 
and  coordinated  enforcement  actions  by 
SAs,  in  2022,  22  SAs  undertook  coordinated 
investigations into over 90 cloud services used in 
the public sector throughout the EEA.

To  support  and 
increase  SAs’  capacity  to 
supervise,  investigate  and  enforce,  the  EDPB 
launched  a  Support  Pool  of  Experts  with 

9

EDPB Annual Report 2022specialists in various areas, including IT auditing, 
security and data science.

3.1.2.  GUIDELINES 02/2022 ON THE 
APPLICATION OF ART. 60 GDPR

All these efforts contribute to better internal work 
processes, unified strategies, enhanced cooperation 
and overall streamlining of the enforcement.

3.1.1.  VIENNA STATEMENT ON 

ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION

In  pursuit  of  developing  a  comprehensive  and 
collaborative approach to address issues related to 
GDPR enforcement, the EDPB Members met in Vienna 
in April 2022 and reiterated their commitment to close 
cross-border cooperation. A statement summarised 
the Members’ agreed action towards strong and swift 
enforcement of the GDPR through further enhancing 
cooperation on strategic cases and diversifying the 
range  of  cooperation  methods  used.  Among  other 
topics, the EDPB agreed to identify a list of procedural 
aspects that could be further harmonised in EU law to 
maximise the positive impact of GDPR cooperation. 
This list was sent to the European Commission for its 
consideration in October 2022, and was added to the 
European Commission’s work programme for 2023. 

In line with the broader narrative to support effective 
enforcement  and  efficient  cooperation  between 
national SAs, the EDPB adopted Guidelines 02/2022 
focusing on the interactions of SAs with each other, 
the EDPB and third parties under Art. 60 GDPR. The 
aim is to provide guidance in terms of cooperation and 
the One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism. In practice, this 
helps SAs to enact their own national procedures in 
a manner consistent with the cooperation under the 
OSS mechanism. 

The guidelines elaborate and clarify the requirements 
of  each  paragraph  of  Art.  60  GDPR,  based  on  the 
provision’s text and its practical implementation.

In terms of Art. 60(1) GDPR, the guidelines emphasise 
that  the  principles  to  be  followed  throughout  the 
whole cooperation procedure are mutual obligations 
and  that  the  SAs  should  endeavour  to  reach  a 
consensual decision that is embedded in a process of 
mutual, consistent and timely exchange of all relevant 
information.

Going  forward,  the  EDPB  will  also  prioritise 
enforcement actions by fostering greater cooperation 
on  cross-border  cases  of  strategic  importance, 
addressing legal challenges stemming from matters 
of general application, and better aligning national 
enforcement strategies.

The  guidance  on  Art.  60(2)  GDPR  focuses  on  the 
cooperative  aspects  in  cases  where  the  Lead 
Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  asks  Concerned 
Supervisory  Authorities  (CSAs)  to  provide  mutual 
assistance (Art. 61 GDPR) and conduct joint operations 
(Art. 62 GDPR).

The  EDPB  Members  are  cognisant  of  the  fact  that 
this  will  represent  a  collaborative  approach,  with 
dedicated  effort  and  cooperation  from  every 
member in improving the GDPR enforcement. As a 
consequence, this will result in greater robustness of 
the enforcement process and in ensuring a consistent 
interpretation of the GDPR.

Adopted: 28 April 2022

The part dedicated to Art. 60(3) GDPR highlights the 
importance  of  collaborative  interaction  and  early 
exchange of information between the LSA and the 
CSAs.  More  specifically,  the  guidelines  clarify  that 
the CSA should be able to contribute to the overall 
cooperation procedure and express their views even 
before the creation of a draft decision. In addition, the 
LSA is under the obligation to submit a draft decision in 
all cases of cross-border processing. The guidance on 
Art. 60(4)-(6) GDPR covers the potential scenarios that 

10

EDPB Annual Report 2022follow the submission of a draft decision by the LSA and 
adds consistency to the post-submission procedure. 
The  guidance  on  Art.  60(7)-(9)  GDPR  clarifies  the 
distinction  between  notifying  and  informing  SAs 
following the adoption of a binding decision.

To ensure further compliance after a final decision has 
been made by the LSA, the EDPB provides guidance 
on Art. 60(10) GDPR in terms of the obligations of the 
controller or processor in further processing activities 
in all its establishments.

Overall,  the  provided  clarification  and  guidance  of 
the requirements under Art. 60 GDPR significantly 
contribute to the desired consistency of the SAs’ work 
and in enhancing enforcement cooperation.

Adopted: 14 March 2022

3.1.3.  GUIDELINES 04/2022 ON 

THE CALCULATION OF 
ADMINISTRATIVE FINES UNDER 
THE GDPR

To harmonise the approach used by SAs in calculating 
fines, the EDPB adopted the first version of Guidelines 
04/2022. The guidelines contribute to an important 
part of the EDPB’s strategy in creating more efficient 
cooperation among SAs on cross-border cases.

“From  now  on,  SAs  across  the  EEA 
will  follow  the  same  methodology  to 
calculate fines. This will boost further 
harmonisation and transparency of the 
fining  practice  of  SAs.  The  individual 
circumstances  of  a  case  must  always 
be a determining factor and SAs have 
an important role in ensuring that each 
fine  is  effective,  proportionate  and 
dissuasive.”

-  Dr Andrea Jelinek, Chair of the EDPB

The  EDPB  devised  a  systematic  and  chronological 
five-step methodology that SAs across the European 
Economic  Area  (EEA)  can  use  for  calculating 
administrative fines for infringements of the GDPR.

1. The SAs have to assess whether the case at stake 
concerns  one  or  more  sanctionable  conducts 
and  whether  this  has  led  to  one  or  multiple 
infringements.  Furthermore,  in  case  one  conduct 
gives rise to multiple infringements, it needs to be 
determined  whether  one  infringement  precludes 
the attribution of another infringement, or whether 
they are to be attributed alongside each other. The 
aim is to clarify which infringements can result in 
fines.

2.  The  SAs  should  use  a  harmonised  starting  point 
for the calculation of a fine, with three elements 
to consider: the categorisation of infringements by 
nature,  the  seriousness  of  the  infringement  and 
the turnover of the undertaking. This starting point 
forms the foundation for further calculations, and 
each assessment needs to be based on the merits 
of the case.

3. The SAs should also determine whether there are 
aggravating and mitigating circumstances (as listed 
in Art. 83 (2) GDPR) and increase or decrease the 
fine accordingly.

4. The SAs must ensure that fines do not exceed the 

legal maximums as set out in Art. 83(4)-(6) GDPR.

5. The SAs need to assess whether the calculated final 
amount meets the requirements of effectiveness, 
dissuasiveness  and  proportionality,  or  whether 
further adjustments to the amount are necessary.

The  EDPB  will  regularly  revise  the  guidelines  and 
proposed methodology.

Adopted: 12 May 2022

11

EDPB Annual Report 20223.2.  2022 ARTICLE 65 DECISIONS

The EDPB is empowered to issue binding decisions 
under  Art.  65  GDPR  to  guarantee  the  consistent 
application of the GDPR by SAs. In 2022, the EDPB 
issued 5 binding decisions addressing a range of issues 
from right to access, right to object direct marketing, 
protection of children’s use of social media to legal 
basis for processing personal data.

3.2.1.  DECISION 01/2022 ON THE 

DISPUTE ARISEN ON THE DRAFT 
DECISION OF THE FRENCH 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING ACCOR SA UNDER 
ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR

In June 2022, the EDPB settled a dispute regarding a 
fine against the French hospitality company Accor SA 
in its Decision 01/2022. 

The French LSA issued a draft decision against Accor SA 
following complaints relating to a failure to consider 
the right to object to the receipt of marketing messages 
by mail and/or difficulties encountered in exercising 
the right of access. Upon sharing the draft decision 
with the CSAs, the Polish SA raised three objections, 
with a primary focus on the amount of the fine, which 
in its opinion was not effective, proportionate and 
dissuasive enough. The SAs did not reach a consensus 
on that given issue, henceforth it was referred to the 
EDPB pursuant to Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR.

The EDPB agreed with the reasoning of the Polish SA 
in certain aspects and decided that the French LSA 
needed to reassess the elements it relied upon to 
calculate the amount of the fine in order to ensure 
that it meets the criterion of dissuasiveness. The EDPB 
clarified that the fine should be determined solely 
based on the company’s turnover of the preceding 
year, namely 2021, without considering the reduced 
turnover  caused  by  the  COVID-19  pandemic  as  a 
mitigating factor under 83(2)(k) GDPR.

The GDPR fine issued to Accor was increased from the 
initial EUR 100,000 imposed by the French LSA to EUR 
500,000 following the EDPB’s binding decision.

Adopted: 15 June 2022

3.2.2.  BINDING DECISION 2/2022 ON 
THE DISPUTE ARISEN ON THE 
DRAFT DECISION OF THE IRISH 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED (INSTAGRAM) 
UNDER ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR

In July 2022, the EDPB adopted a binding decision 
regarding  Instagram,  a  unit  of  Meta  Platforms 
Ireland Limited (Meta IE), particularly on the policy 
of maintaining public-by-default profiles of children 
and the mandatory public disclosure of their contact 
details when operating business accounts.

The  Irish  LSA  triggered  the  dispute  resolution 
procedure under Art. 65 GDPR after no compromise 
had been reached on the objections raised by several 
CSAs concerning the legal basis for processing and the 
determination of the fine.

In  terms  of  publicly  disclosing  children’s  contact 
details when they operate business accounts, Meta 
IE relied on two legal bases for processing personal 
data:  “performance  of  a  contract”  and  “legitimate 
interests”. The EDPB found that Meta IE could not have 
relied on Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of a contract) 
as a legal basis for the publication since the processing 
at  stake  was  not  necessary  for  the  performance 
of a contract between Meta IE and its child users. 
Regarding the alternative legal basis of Art. 6(1)(f) 
GDPR (legitimate interests), the EDPB concluded that 
the publication of the children´s contact details did 
not meet the requirements because the processing 
was either unnecessary or, if it were to be considered 
necessary, it did not pass the balancing test required 
when determining legitimate interests.

12

EDPB Annual Report 2022Therefore, the EDPB concluded that Meta IE unlawfully 
processed  children’s  personal  data  and  it  further 
instructed the Irish LSA to amend its draft decision by 
including the infringement of Art. 6(1) GDPR.

The EDPB also instructed the Irish SA to assess its 
envisaged administrative fine in accordance with Art. 
83(1)-(2) GDPR to:

Impose an effective, proportionate and dissuasive 
administrative fine for the additional infringement; 
and

• 

• 

specific protection with regard to their 
personal data.”

-  Dr Andrea Jelinek, Chair of the EDPB

This EDPB decision has practical repercussions on the 
way this online platform operates its services in the 
EU. Meanwhile, Instagram has changed its practices. 
Accounts of people under 18 years of age are now 
private-by-default in the UK and EU, and the disclosure 
of contact details for business accounts is no longer 
mandatory.

Ensure that the final amounts of the administrative 
fines are effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

Adopted: 28 July 2022

On the issue of public-by-default profiles of children, 
initially  raised  as  an  objection  by  the  Norwegian 
SA, the Irish SA was not required to amend its draft 
decision.  Indeed,  the  EDPB  concluded  that  the 
objection  did  not  meet  the  requirements  of  being 
“relevant and reasoned” under Art. 4(24) GDPR since it 
was neither relevant nor sufficiently reasoned against 
the backdrop of the legal and factual content of the 
Irish SA’s draft decision.

Following  the  EDPB’s  binding  decision,  the  Irish 
LSA adopted its final decision against Meta IE. They 
determined that Meta IE had infringed Art. 6(1) GDPR. 
The final fine was the maximum of the EUR 202-405 
million range which was initially envisaged in the draft 
decision.

“This  is  a  historic  decision.  Not  just 
because of the height of the fine - this is 
the second highest fine since the entry 
into application of the GDPR - it is also 
the first EU-wide decision on children’s 
data protection rights. With this binding 
decision, the EDPB makes it extra clear 
that  companies  targeting  children 
have to be extra careful. Children merit 

3.2.3.  BINDING DECISION 3/2022 ON 

THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED BY THE 
IRISH SA ON META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED AND ITS 
FACEBOOK SERVICE (ART. 65 
GDPR) AND BINDING DECISION 
4/2022 ON THE DISPUTE 
SUBMITTED BY THE IRISH SA 
ON META PLATFORMS IRELAND 
LIMITED AND ITS INSTAGRAM 
SERVICE (ART. 65 GDPR)

Following  the  EDPB’s  binding  dispute  resolution 
decisions of 5 December 2022, the Irish SA adopted 
its decisions regarding Facebook and Instagram (Meta 
IE). These decisions are the result of complaint-based 
inquiries into Facebook’s and Instagram’s activities in 
particular concerning the lawfulness and transparency 
of processing for behavioural advertising.

The binding decisions were adopted on the basis of Art. 
65(1)(a) GDPR, after the Irish SA as LSA had triggered 
two  dispute  resolution  procedures  concerning  the 
objections raised by concerned supervisory authorities 
(CSAs) from ten countries in each case. Among others, 
CSAs issued objections concerning the legal basis for 
processing (Art. 6 GDPR), data protection principles 
(Art. 5 GDPR), and the use of corrective measures 
including fines.

13

EDPB Annual Report 2022The  EDPB  decided  that  Meta  IE  inappropriately 
relied on contract as a legal basis to process personal 
data in the context of Facebook’s Terms of Service 
and  Instagram’s  Terms  of  Use  for  the  purpose  of 
behavioural advertising as this was not a core element 
of the services. The EDPB found in both cases that Meta 
IE lacked a legal basis for this processing and therefore 
unlawfully processed these data. As a consequence, 
the EDPB instructed the Irish SA to amend the finding 
in its draft decisions and to include an infringement of 
Art. 6(1) GDPR.

The EDPB instructed the Irish SA to include, in its final 
decisions, an order for Meta IE to bring its processing 
of personal data for behavioural advertising in the 
context of the Facebook and Instagram services into 
compliance with Art. 6(1) GDPR within three months.

Next, the EDPB examined whether the complaints had 
been addressed with due diligence. The complainant 
had raised the fact that sensitive data is processed 
by  Meta  IE.  However,  the  Irish  SA  did  not  assess 
processing of sensitive data and therefore, the EDPB 
did  not  have  sufficient  factual  evidence  to  enable 
it to make findings on any possible infringement of 
the controller’s obligations under Art. 9 GDPR. As a 
result, the EDPB disagreed with the Irish SA’s proposed 
conclusion that Meta IE is not legally obliged to rely on 
consent to carry out the processing activities involved 
in the delivery of its Facebook and Instagram services, 
as this could not be categorically concluded without 
further investigations. Therefore, the EDPB decided 
that the Irish SA must carry out a new investigation.

In addition, the EDPB instructed the Irish SA to include 
in both final decisions a finding of infringement of 
the principle of fairness and to adopt the appropriate 
corrective measures. The EDPB noted that the grave 
breaches of transparency obligations impacted the 
reasonable expectations of the users, that Meta IE had 
presented its services to users in a misleading manner, 
and that the relationship between Meta IE and users 
was imbalanced.

With respect to the administrative fines, the EDPB 
directed the Irish SA to impose an administrative fine 
for  the  additional  infringements  of  Art.  6(1)  GDPR 
(lack  of  legal  basis  for  the  processing  of  personal 
data) and to issue significantly higher fines for the 
transparency  infringements  identified,  as  it  found 
the fines proposed did not fulfil the requirement of 
being effective, proportionate and dissuasive. This led 
to the Irish SA significantly increasing the fines in its 
final decisions (from a maximum of EUR 36 million and 
EUR 23 million for the Facebook and Instagram draft 
decisions, to EUR 210 million and EUR 180 million in 
the final decisions respectively).

3.2.4.  BINDING DECISION 5/2022 ON 

THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED BY THE 
IRISH SA REGARDING WHATSAPP 
IRELAND LIMITED (ART. 65 GDPR)

Following  the  EDPB’s  binding  dispute  resolution 
decision of December 5th, WhatsApp Ireland Limited 
(WhatsApp IE) was issued a EUR 5.5 million fine by the 
Irish SA.

In its Binding Decision, the EDPB instructed the Irish SA 
to amend its draft decision with respect to the findings 
concerning  lawfulness  of  the  processing  and  the 
principle of fairness, and to the corrective measures 
envisaged.

Regarding the lawfulness of processing for Service 
improvement  purposes,  the  EDPB  decided  that 
WhatsApp IE inappropriately relied on contract as a 
legal basis to process personal data. As a consequence, 
the EDPB instructed the Irish SA to add an infringement 
of Art. 6(1) GDPR. Additionally, the EDPB instructed 
the Irish SA to include an infringement of the principle 
of fairness under Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR.

The EDPB further decided that the Irish SA must carry 
out an investigation into WhatsApp IE’s processing 
operations in order to determine whether it processes 
special  categories  of  personal  data  (Art.  9  GDPR); 

14

EDPB Annual Report 2022whether  it  processes  data  for  the  purposes  of 
behavioural advertising, for marketing purposes, as 
well as for the provision of metrics to third parties and 
the exchange of data with affiliated companies for the 
purposes of service improvements.

With  respect  to  corrective  measures,  the  EDPB 
requested the Irish SA to include in its final decision 
an order for WhatsApp IE to bring its processing of 
personal data for the purposes of service improvement 
in the context of its Terms of Service into compliance 
with Art. 6(1) GDPR within a specified period of time, 
and to cover the infringements of Art. 6(1) GDPR with 
an administrative fine. 

15

EDPB Annual Report 20224

2022 - THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

4.1.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

The  EDPB  Secretariat,  which  is  provided  by  the 
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS), offers 
analytical,  administrative  and  logistical  support 
to  the  EDPB.  The  EDPB  Secretariat  is  in  charge  of 
drafting EDPB documents, providing IT solutions to 
ensure transparent communications between all the 
European  national  Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs), 
handling EDPB media relations, as well as organising 
all EDPB meetings.

A  Memorandum  of  Understanding  establishes  the 
terms of this cooperation between the EDPB and the 
EDPS. The staff at the EDPB Secretariat are employed 
by the EDPS, however, they work exclusively under 
the instructions of the Chair of the EDPB. At the end of 
2022, the staff of the EDPB Secretariat was composed 
of  30  FTE  staff  members:  one  head  of  the  EDPB 

Secretariat, 1 deputy head of unit, 1 head of sector, 4 
heads of activity, 11 legal officers, 4 communication 
officers, 6 administrative assistants and 2 IT officers.

The EDPB Secretariat led the drafting of 26 opinions, 
binding  decisions  and  statements  adopted  by  the 
EDPB in 2022 and contributed to further 23 guidelines, 
opinions,  binding  decisions,  statements  and 
recommendations. 

In 2022, the EPDB Secretariat organised 347 meetings 
for  the  EDPB,  including  15  plenary  meetings,  160 
expert  subgroup  or  taskforce  meetings  and  172  
drafting  teams.  One  significant  distinction  from 
previous years is that in 2022, the EDPB convened 
hybrid meetings for the first time. Out of 347 meetings, 
34 were hybrid, whereas 308  were held remotely and 
5 took place in-person.

16

EDPB Annual Report 20224.2.  EDPB BUDGET

The EDPB budget forms part of the broader budget of 
the EDPS. The financial resources provided to the data 
protection institutions allow them to fulfil their tasks, 
contribute to the implementation of the democratic 
values of the EU and the fundamental rights of privacy 
and data protection. 

The EDPB budget for 2022 amounts to EUR 6,812,000 
and covers all aspects related to the functioning of the 
EDPB. This includes, but is not limited to, expenditure 
for EDPB meetings at the plenary and subgroup level, 
translation and interpretation costs, IT services, and 
remuneration of the EDPB Secretariat staff. 

4.3.  IT COMMUNICATION TOOLS

In the context of cooperation between SAs, the EDPB 
Secretariat provides continuous support to SAs with 
IT  solutions  that  facilitate  their  communication.  In 
this respect, the EDPB Secretariat leads the IT Users 
Expert  Subgroup,  which  focuses  on  the  need  for 
development and making changes to the information 
systems used by EDPB, including the Internal Market 
Information (IMI) system which is used to exchange 
information necessary for the GDPR cooperation and 
consistency mechanism. This included the overhaul 
of two procedures to reflect the experience gathered 
in the first years of the GDPR and updates to reflect 
modifications  in  the  EDPB’s  Rules  of  Procedure. 
In  addition,  further  reporting  possibilities  were 
introduced. 

Throughout  2022,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  continued 
working on best practices to refine the procedures in 
use and to share its expertise on the use of the IMI 
system.  While  employing  the  IMI  system,  the  SAs 
and the European Commission are supported by the 
EDPB IMI helpdesk within the EDPB Secretariat. The 
IMI helpdesk continued to carry out 3252 proactive 
monitoring procedures to ensure that case files were 
complete and registered correctly. 

The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  performed  a  follow-up 
to  the  migration  of  the  EDPB  Wiki  platform  used 
for internal sharing of information, with additional 
functionalities and an enhanced user experience. In 
addition, the EDPB Secretariat upgraded the content 
management  system  (CMS)  of  the  EDPB  website 
‘https://edpb.europa.eu’, which manages the creation 
and modification of digital content, to Drupal 9. A new 
advanced search feature to improve the usability of the 
website was introduced. The EDPB website was visited 
275,734 times in 2022 and the most clicked topics are 
international transfer of data, General Data Protection 
Regulation, Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
and code of conduct. Considerable efforts were made 
regarding the translation of documents available on 
the website. In fact, 283 EDPB documents and 159 
press releases were translated into 22 languages. 

The EDPB Secretariat improved internal tools for the 
organisation and planning of meetings and for the 
management of documents.

4.4.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT’S 

ACTIVITIES RELATING TO ACCESS 
TO DOCUMENTS

Transparency is a core principle of the EDPB. As an 
EU body, the EDPB is subject to Art. 15 of the Treaty 
of  the  Functioning  of  the  European  Union  and 
Regulation 1049/2001 on public access to documents. 
Art. 76(2) GDPR and Art. 32 of the EDPB’s Rules of 
Procedure reinforce this requirement. The principle 
of  transparency  provides  any  EU  citizen,  and  any 
natural or legal person residing or having a registered 
office in a Member State, with the right of access to 
EDPB documents. This right applies to all documents 
held by the EDPB, concerning any matter relating to 
its  responsibilities.  In  exceptional  cases,  the  EDPB 
may  refuse  to  disclose  all  or  part  of  a  document. 
The  reasons  for  such  a  refusal  and  corresponding 
procedural rules are outlined in Regulation 1049/2001 
on public access to documents. In 2022, the EDPB 

17

EDPB Annual Report 2022received 68 public access requests for documents held 
by the EDPB. Confirmatory applications were received 
in 7 cases1.  In accordance with Art. 32(2) of the EDPB 
Rules of Procedure, the EDPB Secretariat prepares 
the answers to those requests, which are handled 
and signed by the Chair of the EDPB (for confirmatory 
applications) or one of the Deputy Chairs of the EDPB 
(for initial applications).

Three complaints regarding three EDPB’s confirmatory 
decisions  for  requests  for  access  to  documents, 
submitted  in  2021  and  2022,  were  brought  to  the 
attention  of  the  European  Ombudsman  in  2022. 
Whilst the scope of the three complaints varied, their 
subject matter related to the US Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act (FATCA) and covered draft and final 
versions  of  statements,  guidelines  and  letters,  as 
well as correspondence. Following a  reassessment 
of the requested documents, the EDPB decided to 
grant wider partial access to three documents, which 
were  provided  to  the  complainants.  However,  the 
EDPB informed the Ombudsman that access to most 
documents, mainly drafts, could not be granted in 
scope of these complaints, as several exceptions of 
Regulation 1049/2001 applied. Disclosure would have 
undermined the protection of privacy and the integrity 
of the individual (Art. 4(1)(b)) as well as the protection 
of the decision-making process at the EDPB (Art. 4(3)
(2)).  In  particular,  the  EDPB  argued  that  disclosing 
the draft documents would seriously jeopardize the 
EDPB’s decision-making process, since the views of the 
EDPB members conveyed in the documents were at 
the time unknown to the public. The EDPB maintained 
that  keeping  the  drafts  from  the  general  public  is 
required for legal certainty, to avoid any confusion 
for stakeholders, as well as to ensure the consistent 
interpretation of EU data protection rules across the 
EU, and safeguard the EDPB’s authority, independence 
and “space to think”.

4.5.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT’S 

DATA PROTECTION OFFICER 
ACTIVITIES

The  EDPB  processes  personal  data  following 
Regulation 2018/1725 on the protection of natural 
persons with regard to the processing of personal data 
by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies 
and on the free movement of such data (Regulation 
2018/1725). In accordance with Art. 43 of Regulation 
2018/1725, the EDPB designated its own DPO team, 
which is part of the EDPB Secretariat, to handle the 
processing of personal data. The DPO’s position and 
tasks  are  defined  in  Arts.  44  and  45  of  Regulation 
2018/1725, and are further detailed in the EDPB DPO 
Implementing Rules.

In 2022, the EDPB, with the assistance of its DPO team, 
continued to strengthen compliance with Regulation 
2018/1725 by enhancing its transparency practices 
through different means, such as:

• 

• 

• 

development,  publication  and  update  of  several 
privacy notices;

continued development of several records, as well 
as publication of a centralised register for records 
on the EDPB website; and

addition  of  new  and  updated  information  to  its 
DPO website page.

The DPO team launched internal legal assessments 
on different issues concerning the EDPB’s processing 
of  personal  data  and  identified  suitable  legal, 
organisational  and,  where  applicable,  technical 
solutions. The assessments were carried out as part of 
the DPO’s advising function for the EDPB.

1    According to Arts. 7 and 8 of the Regulation 1049/2001, when an application for access to documents is fully or partially refused, the applicant 
can file a confirmatory application, asking the institution to reconsider its position, within 15 working days (or as an exception, in 30 working days 
when the application relates to a long document or a large number of documents).

18

EDPB Annual Report 2022In 2022, the DPO team assisted with the handling of 
6 data subject requests made on the basis of rights 
laid out in Art. 17 to Art. 24 of Regulation 2018/1725, 
which is the same figure as in 2021. The DPO team 
also provided assistance with replying to individual 
requests  for  information  involving  the  processing 
of  their  personal  data.  In  addition,  the  DPO  team 
provided  support  in  handling  12  data  breaches 
under Arts. 34 and 35 of Regulation 2018/1725. The 
assessment of these data breaches revealed that a 
large majority of them was unlikely to pose a risk to 
the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Two data 
breaches required a notification to the EDPS.

Additionally, the DPO team delivered various internal 
training  sessions  and  updated  awareness-raising 
material  aimed  at  EDPB  Secretariat  staff.  These 
activities were tailored to the needs and expertise 
of the participants to ensure that all staff members 
were  adequately  informed  of  their  responsibilities 
surrounding personal data processing, but also of their 
rights as data subjects.

Finally, the EDPB DPO team continued to maintain 
close  relations  with  other  EU  institutions,  bodies 
and agencies and their DPOs, particularly in matters 
involving  or  related  to  the  processing  of  personal 
data.  Such  cooperation  ensures  the  exchange  of 
good  practices,  common  experiences  and  tailored 
approaches  to  specific  data  protection  challenges. 
To  this  end,  the  DPO  team  participated  in  the  EU 
institutions’ network of DPOs and the EDPB network 
of DPOs, comprising the DPOs of national SAs, the 
EDPS and the EDPB.

19

EDPB Annual Report 20225

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION 
BOARD - ACTIVITIES IN 2022

5.1.  BINDING DECISIONS

5.1.1.  DECISION 01/2022 ON THE 

DRAFT DECISION OF THE FRENCH 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING ACCOR SA UNDER 
ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR

See Section 3.2.1. for the full summary.

In June 2022, the EDPB resolved a dispute over a fine 
levied against the French hospitality company Accor 
SA. Initially, the French Lead Supervisory Authority 
(LSA) issued a draft decision against Accor SA, following 
the submission of complaints relating to difficulties 
when exercising the right to object to the receipt of 
marketing messages by email, and when exercising the 
right of access. The Polish SA voiced its objection to the 

decision as it considered the amount of the fine not to 
be sufficiently effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

Following  the  SAs’  failure  to  reach  consensus,  the 
case was referred to the EDPB pursuant to Art. 65(1) 
GDPR. The EDPB agreed with the Polish SA’s reasoning 
in certain aspects. Among others, it decided that the 
French LSA needed to reassess the elements it relied 
upon to calculate the amount of the fine in order to 
ensure that it meets the criterion of dissuasiveness. 

Following the binding decision of the EDPB, the French 
SA imposed a fine of EUR 500,000 for infringements 
relating  to  the  GDPR.  In  addition,  the  French  SA 
imposed a fine of EUR 100,000 for infringements of 
the national transposition of the ePrivacy directive.  

Adopted: 15 June 2022

20

EDPB Annual Report 20225.1.2.  BINDING DECISION 2/2022 ON 
THE DRAFT DECISION OF THE 
IRISH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED (INSTAGRAM) 
UNDER ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR

See Section 3.2.2. for the full summary. 

In July 2022, the EDPB resolved a dispute regarding 
the Irish SA’s draft decision on Instagram, a service of 
Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (Meta IE). Several SAs 
voiced their objection to the decision, and following 
the failure to reach consensus, the case was referred 
to the EDPB pursuant to Art. 65(1) GDPR. 

In terms of publicly disclosing children’s emails and/
or  phone  numbers  when  they  operate  Instagram 
business accounts, the EDPB held that Meta IE could 
not  rely  on  Art.  6(1)(b)  GDPR  (performance  of  a 
contract) or Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR (legitimate interests) 
and concluded that Meta IE infringed Art. 6(1) GDPR 
by processing children’s personal data in an unlawful 
manner. The EDPB further requested the Irish SA to 
reassess its determination of the administrative fine in 
this case.  

Following the EDPB’s decision, the Irish SA issued a 
EUR 405 million fine to Meta IE, which at the time of 
writing was the second highest fine issued by an SA 
since the adoption of the GDPR. 

Adopted: 28 July 2022

5.1.3.  BINDING DECISION 3/2022 ON 

THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED BY THE 
IRISH SA ON META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED AND ITS 
FACEBOOK SERVICE (ART. 65 
GDPR) AND BINDING DECISION 
4/2022 ON THE DISPUTE 
SUBMITTED BY THE IRISH SA 
ON META PLATFORMS IRELAND 
LIMITED AND ITS INSTAGRAM 
SERVICE (ART. 65 GDPR) 

See Section 3.2.3. for the full summary. 

The  EDPB  adopted  the binding  dispute  resolution 
decisions on 5 December 2022, after the Irish SA as 
LSA had triggered two dispute resolution procedures 
concerning the objections raised by several Concerned 
Supervisory Authorities (CSAs) about the processing 
activities carried out by Meta IE in the context of the 
Facebook and Instagram services. 

In  its  decisions,  the  EDPB  affirmed  that  Meta  IE 
inappropriately relied on contract as a legal basis to 
process personal data in the context of Facebook’s 
Terms of Service and Instagram’s Terms of Use for 
the purpose of behavioural advertising. Thereby, the 
EDPB found that Meta IE lacked a legal basis for this 
processing and instructed the Irish SA to order Meta 
IE to bring its processing into compliance with Art. 6(1) 
GDPR. 

In addition, EDPB noted that the grave breaches of 
transparency  obligations  impacted  the  reasonable 
expectations of the users, that Meta IE had presented 
its  services  to  users  in  a  misleading  manner,  and 
that the relationship between Meta IE and users of 
Facebook and Instagram services was imbalanced. 

21

EDPB Annual Report 2022The  EDPB  directed  the  Irish  SA  to  impose  an 
administrative fine for the additional infringements of 
Art. 6(1) GDPR (lack of legal basis for the processing 
of personal data) and to issue significantly higher fines 
for  the  transparency  infringements.  Following  the 
decisions, Meta IE was issued hefty fines by the Irish 
SA. 

Adopted: 5 December 2022

5.1.4.  BINDING DECISION 5/2022 ON 

THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED BY THE 
IRISH SA REGARDING WHATSAPP 
IRELAND LIMITED (ART. 65 GDPR)

See Section 3.2.4. for the full summary. 

In  December  2022,  the  EDPB  adopted  a  binding 
decision  that  requested  the  Irish  SA  to  amend  its 
draft decision regarding WhatsApp Ireland Limited 
(WhatsApp IE) with respect to the findings concerning 
the lawfulness of the processing and the principle of 
fairness, and to the corrective measures envisaged. 

According to the EDPB, WhatsApp IE inappropriately 
relied on contract as a legal basis to lawfully process 
personal data for Service improvement purposes. The 
Irish SA was thereby instructed to add an infringement 
of Art. 6(1) GDPR, as well as to include an infringement 
of the principle of fairness under Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR. 

Furthermore,  the  EDPB  requested  that  the  Irish 
SA  carries  out  an  investigation  into  WhatsApp  IE’s 
processing operations in order to determine whether 
it processes special categories of personal data (Art. 
9 GDPR); whether it processes data for the purposes 
of behavioural advertising, for marketing purposes, as 
well as for the provision of metrics to third parties and 
the exchange of data with affiliated companies for the 
purposes of service improvements. 

Following the binding dispute resolution decision, the 
Irish SA issued a EUR 5.5 million fine to WhatsApp IE. 

Adopted: 5 December 2022

5.2.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS

5.2.1.  OPINIONS ON DRAFT DECISIONS 

REGARDING BINDING 
CORPORATE RULES

SAs  may  approve  Binding  Corporate  Rules  (BCRs) 
within the meaning of Art. 47 GDPR.  

BCRs are data protection policies implemented and 
adhered to within a group of enterprises established in 
the EEA for transfers of personal data outside the EEA 
within the same group. In 2022, several SAs submitted 
their  draft  decisions  regarding  the  controller  or 
processor BCRs of various companies to the EDPB, 
requesting an Opinion under Art. 64(1)(f) GDPR. The 
EDPB issued twenty-three opinions on BCRs.  

In all instances, the EDPB concluded that the draft 
BCRs contained all required elements and guaranteed 
appropriate  safeguards  to  ensure  that  the  level 
of  protection  provided  by  the  GDPR  would  not  be 
undermined when personal data was transferred to 
and processed by the group members based in third 
countries. It is without prejudice to the obligation of 
the data exporter to assess whether, in the specific 
case, additional measures are necessary to ensure 
an essentially equivalent level of protection to that 
in the EU. In every case, based on the EDPB Opinions, 
the BCRs could be approved without changes by the 
relevant SAs.  

The various opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion  02/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
WEBHELP Group Adopted: 7 February 2022; 

22

EDPB Annual Report 2022•  Opinion  03/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
WEBHELP Group Adopted: 7 February 2022; 

•  Opinion  04/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Norican 
Group Adopted: 18 March 2022; 

•  Opinion  05/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Lundbeck Group Adopted: 19 April 2022; 

•  Opinion  06/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Groupon 
International Limited Adopted: 19 April 2022; 

•  Opinion  07/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Hungarian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of MOL Group 
Adopted: 19 April 2022; 

•  Opinion  08/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of Bioclinica 
Group Adopted: 4 May 2022; 

•  Opinion  09/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Bioclinica 
Group Adopted: 4 May 2022; 

•  Opinion  10/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Hesse  Supervisory  Authority  (Germany) 
regarding the Controller Binding Corporate Rules 
of Fresenius Group Adopted: 16 June 2022; 

•  Opinion  17/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Spanish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
ANTOLIN Group Adopted: 1 August 2022; 

•  Opinion  18/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Baden-Württemberg 
(Germany)  Supervisory 
Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  Daimler  Truck  Group 
Adopted: 26 August 2022; 

•  Opinion  19/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Baden-Württemberg 
(Germany)  Supervisory 
Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  Mercedes-  Benz  Group 
Adopted: 26 August 2022; 

•  Opinion 20/2022 on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller 
Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Ellucian  Group 
Adopted: 26 August 2022; 

•  Opinion 21/2022 on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor 
Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Ellucian  Group 
Adopted: 26 August 2022; 

•  Opinion  22/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Hilti 
Group Adopted: 7 September 2022; 

•  Opinion  23/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Swedish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of the Samres 
Group Adopted: 7 September 2022; 

•  Opinion  24/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Swedish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Samres 
Group Adopted: 7 September 2022; 

•  Opinion  26/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Data  Protection  Authority  of  Bavaria  for  the 
Private  Sector  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  Munich  Re  Reinsurance 
Group Adopted: 30 September 2022; 

23

EDPB Annual Report 2022•  Opinion  27/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  LEYTON 
Group Adopted: 7 October 2022; 

•  Opinion  29/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  DSV 
Group Adopted: 18 November 2022; 

•  Opinion  30/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Slovak  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of the Piano 
Group Adopted: 28 November 2022; 

•  Opinion  31/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Slovak  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Piano 
Group Adopted: 28 November 2022; 

•  Opinion  32/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of the Ramboll 
Group Adopted: 06 December 2022.

5.2.2.  OPINIONS ON DRAFT 
REQUIREMENTS FOR 
ACCREDITATION OF A 
CERTIFICATION BODY

Three  SAs  submitted  their  draft  decisions  on 
accreditation  requirements  for  certification  bodies 
under Art. 43(1)(b) GDPR to the EDPB, requesting an 
opinion under Art. 64(1)(c) GDPR. These requirements 
allow  the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies 
responsible for issuing and renewing certification in 
accordance with Art. 42 GDPR. 

These  opinions  aim  to  establish  a  consistent  and 
harmonised  approach  regarding  the  requirements 
that SAs and national accreditation bodies apply when 
accrediting certification bodies under the GDPR. To do 
so, the EDPB made recommendations to the relevant 
SAs  on  the  amendments  to  be  made  to  the  draft 

accreditation requirements. The SAs then amended 
their drafts in accordance with Art. 64(7) GDPR, taking 
utmost account of the opinions of the EDPB.  

The various opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion  11/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  Poland 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Art. 43.3 (GDPR) Adopted: 4 July 2022; 

•  Opinion  12/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  France 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Art. 43.3 (GDPR) Adopted: 4 July 2022; 

•  Opinion  13/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  Bulgaria 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Art. 43.3 (GDPR) Adopted: 4 July 2022.

5.2.3.  OPINIONS ON CERTIFICATION 

CRITERIA

When an SA intends to approve a certification pursuant 
to Art. 42(5) GDPR, the main role of the EDPB is to 
ensure the consistent application of the GDPR through 
the consistency mechanism referred to in Arts. 63, 
64 and 65 GDPR. Under this framework, according 
to Art. 64(1)(c) GDPR, the EDPB is required to issue 
an opinion on an SA’s draft decision approving the 
certification criteria. The EDPB issued three opinions 
on certification criteria in 2022, aiming at ensuring the 
consistent application of the GDPR, including by the 
SAs, controllers and processors. 

The three opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion  1/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Luxembourg Supervisory Authority regarding the 
GDPR  –  CARPA  certification  criteria  Adopted:  8 
February 2022; 

24

EDPB Annual Report 2022•  Opinion  25/2022 

regarding 

the  European 
Privacy Seal (EuroPriSe) certification criteria for 
the  certification  of  processing  operations  by 
processors Adopted: 22 September 2022;

•  Opinion  28/2022  on  the  Europrivacy  criteria 
of  certification  regarding  their  approval  by  the 
Board as European Data Protection Seal pursuant 
to Article 42.5 (GDPR) Adopted: 10 October 2022.

5.2.4.  OPINIONS ON SAS’ APPROVAL OF 
ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENTS 
FOR CODE OF CONDUCT 
MONITORING BODY

The EDPB issued three opinions on draft accreditation 
requirements for code of conduct monitoring bodies, 
as requested by SAs in accordance with Art. 64(1)(c) 
GDPR. 

The  aim  of  these  EDPB  opinions  is  to  ensure 
consistency  and  the  correct  application  of  the 
requirements among SAs. To do so, the EDPB made 
several recommendations to the various SAs on the 
amendments to be made to the draft accreditation 
requirements. On this basis, the SAs amended their 
drafts  in  accordance  with  Art.  64(7)  GDPR,  taking 
utmost account of the opinions of the EDPB.  

•  Opinion  16/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  Slovenia 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR Adopted: 4 July 
2022.

5.3.  GENERAL GUIDANCE

5.3.1.  GUIDELINES 01/2022 ON DATA 

SUBJECT RIGHTS - RIGHT OF 
ACCESS

The guidelines provide further clarity on the right of 
access, a cornerstone right of data subjects that is 
enshrined in Art. 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental 
Rights.  It  has  been  a  part  of  the  European  data 
protection  framework  since  its  beginning  and  has 
been further developed by more precise rules in Art. 
15 GDPR.

With  the  exceptions  referred  to  in  the  GDPR  and 
analysed in the guidelines, the right of access allows 
data subjects to obtain full disclosure of their personal 
data. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the request 
should  be  understood  as  referring  to  all  personal 
data concerning the data subject. The right of access 
includes three different components: 

The various opinions are listed below:

i. 

•  Opinion  14/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  Bulgaria 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR Adopted: 4 July 
2022; 

•  Opinion  15/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent Supervisory Authority of Luxembourg 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR Adopted: 4 July 
2022; 

confirmation  as  to  whether  data  about  the 
person is processed or not;
access to this personal data; and 

ii. 
iii.  access to information about the processing, such 
as  purpose,  categories  of  data  and  recipients, 
duration of the processing, data subjects’ rights 
and  appropriate  safeguards  in  case  of  third 
country transfers.

The guidelines provide clarifications on the scope of 
the right of access, the information the controller has 
to provide to the data subject, the format of the access 
request, the main modalities for providing access and 
the limits and restrictions of the right. The controller 

25

EDPB Annual Report 2022may ask the data subject to specify the request if they 
process a large amount of data. Even data that may 
be incorrect or unlawfully processed will have to be 
provided. At the same time, the guidelines elaborate on 
the limits and restrictions of the right. The guidelines 
provide examples to support controllers in answering 
access requests in a GDPR-compliant manner.

Adopted: 18 January 2022

5.3.2.  GUIDELINES 02/2022 ON THE 
APPLICATION OF ART. 60 GDPR

See Section 3.1.2. for the full summary.

The EDPB adopted Guidelines 02/2022 with the aim 
of providing guidance on cooperation between SAs 
and  on  the  One-Stop-Shop  (OSS)  mechanism.  In 
practice, the guidelines help SAs to enact their own 
national procedures in a manner consistent with the 
cooperation under the OSS mechanism. The guidelines 
elaborate  and  clarify  the  requirements  of  each 
paragraph of Art. 60 GDPR, based on the provision’s 
text  and  its  practical  implementation.  Overall,  the 
provided  guidance  significantly  contributes  to  the 
desired consistency of the SAs’ work and to enhancing 
enforcement cooperation.

Adopted: 14 March 2022

5.3.3.  GUIDELINES 03/2022 ON 

DECEPTIVE DESIGN PATTERNS 
IN SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORM 
INTERFACES: HOW TO RECOGNISE 
AND AVOID THEM

The EDPB Guidelines 03/2022 aim to help designers 
and users of social media platforms in deciding how 
to assess and avoid deceptive design (so-called “dark 
patterns”) that infringe on GDPR requirements. The 
Guidelines define dark patterns as “interfaces and user 
experiences implemented on social media platforms 
that lead users into making unintended, unwilling and 

potentially harmful decisions regarding the processing 
of their personal data”. 

The  categories  of  dark  patterns  addressed  in  the 
Guidelines are: a) overloading, b) skipping, c) stirring, 
d) hindering, e) fickle and f) left in the dark. 

These  Guidelines  provide  examples  of  deceptive 
design in use cases of the life cycle of a social media 
account (i.e. from the sign-up stage to the closing of a 
social media account). 

In addition to the examples of deceptive design, the 
Guidelines include best practices at the end of each use 
case (i.e. specific recommendations for designing user 
interfaces that facilitate the effective implementation 
of the GDPR). 

Adopted: 14 March 2022

5.3.4.  GUIDELINES 04/2022 ON 

THE CALCULATION OF 
ADMINISTRATIVE FINES UNDER 
THE GDPR

See Section 3.1.3. for the full summary.

The  guidelines  contribute  to  an  important  part  of 
the EDPB’s strategy based on creating more efficient 
cooperation  among  SAs  on  cross-border  cases,  by 
harmonising the approach used by SAs in calculating 
fines. The EDPB devised a systematic and chronological 
five-step methodology that SAs across the European 
Economic  Area  (EEA)  can  use  for  calculating 
administrative fines for infringements of the GDPR. The 
circumstances of the specific case are the determining 
factors leading to the final amount, which can – in all 
cases – vary between any minimum amount and the 
legal maximum.

Adopted: 12 May 2022

26

EDPB Annual Report 20225.3.5.  GUIDELINES 05/2022 ON THE 
USE OF FACIAL RECOGNITION 
TECHNOLOGY IN THE AREA OF 
LAW ENFORCEMENT

Increasingly, law enforcement authorities (LEAs) are 
showing an interest in the use of facial recognition 
technology  (FRT).  This  technology  often  relies  on 
artificial  intelligence  (AI)  or  machine  learning  (ML) 
and can be used, for example, to search for persons on 
police watch lists or to monitor the movements of an 
individual in public space. 

FRT  relies  on  the  processing  of  biometric  data, 
which  benefit  from  special  protection  in  the  legal 
framework. Indeed, biometric data are permanently 
and irrevocably linked to an individual’s identity, and 
therefore carry significant data protection implications.

Through  its  guidelines,  the  EDPB  outlines  the 
applicable  legal  framework  that  lawmakers  at  the 
national and EU level, as well as LEAs using the FRT 
systems,  must  strictly  comply  with  to  ensure  data 
subjects’ rights. 

The guidelines also provide a tool to support a first 
classification of a given use case (Annex I) as well as 
practical guidance for LEAs that plan to procure and 
run an FRT-system. Further, the guidelines include a set 
of hypothetical situations illustrating concrete uses of 
FRT and relevant considerations, especially regarding 
the necessity and proportionality test.

Adopted: 12 May 2022

5.3.6.  GUIDELINES 06/2022 ON THE 

PRACTICAL IMPLEMENTATION OF 
AMICABLE SETTLEMENTS

Through  these  guidelines,  the  EDPB  discusses  the 
power  to  reach  an  amicable  settlement  as  well  as 
the role of the amicable settlement in the context 
of  the  One-Stop-Shop  mechanism.  It  analyses 
the  legal  consequences  and  includes  practical 

recommendations, proposing a step-by-step guide for 
handling a case via amicable settlement. 

In  the  context  of  complaint  handling  by  SAs,  most 
Member States see amicable settlements as a process 
of  “alternative  dispute  resolution”.  In  most  cases, 
the amicable settlement solution is relied on where 
a  complaint  is  lodged  with  the  SA  concerning  an 
alleged violation of the GDPR, in particular concerning 
data subjects’ rights, to resolve the case in the data 
subjects’ favour. In such cases, the settlement is to be 
reached between the controller and the data subject, 
under the supervision of the SA, which moderates the 
course of events.

The EDPB recognises that amicable settlements are 
tools to achieve compliance with the GDPR by the 
controller. In case a complaint is lodged because a 
controller  has  not  fulfilled  the  data  subject  rights 
pursuant to Art. 12 to Art. 22 GDPR, the enforcement 
of data subject rights can be expedited by an amicable 
arrangement between the actors.

Adopted:  18  November  2021;  formatting  changes 
made on 12 May 2022

5.3.7.  GUIDELINES 07/2022 ON 

CERTIFICATION AS TOOL FOR 
TRANSFERS

In its Art. 46, the GDPR requires data exporters to put in 
place appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal 
data to third countries or international organisations. 
To  that  end,  the  GDPR  distinguishes  appropriate 
safeguards that may be used by data exporters under 
Art.  46  for  framing  transfers  to  third  countries  by 
introducing, amongst others, certification as a new 
transfer mechanism (Arts. 42(2) and 46(2)(f) GDPR). 

These guidelines provide guidance on the application 
of Art. 46(2)(f) GDPR regarding transfers of personal 
data to third countries or to international organisations 
on the basis of certification.

27

EDPB Annual Report 2022First, the EDPB underlines that the nature of these 
guidelines is complementary to the general Guidelines 
1/2018  on  certification.  The  guidelines  specify 
the  requirements  for  transfers  under  GDPR  when 
certification is used. In this respect, the EDPB clarifies 
the  obligations  of  the  data  exporter  and  the  data 
importer, with a special focus on the latter, who will be 
granted the certification.  

In  addition,  the  EDPB  provides  guidance  on  the 
certification  criteria  already  listed  in  Guidelines 
01/2018 and establishes additional specific criteria 
that should be included in a certification mechanism 
used as a tool for transfers to third countries, such 
as the assessment of the third country legislation, 
the  rules  on  onward  transfers  and  redress  and 
enforcement.  Lastly,  the  guidelines  discuss  the 
elements  that  should  be  addressed  in  the  binding 
and  enforceable  commitments  that  controllers  or 
processors not subject to the GDPR should take in 
order  to  provide  appropriate  safeguards  for  data 
transferred to third countries.

Adopted: 14 June 2022

5.3.8.  GUIDELINES 8/2022 ON 

IDENTIFYING A CONTROLLER OR 
PROCESSOR’S LSA

These guidelines constitute a targeted update of the 
Article 29 Working Party’s guidelines for identifying a 
controller or processor’s LSA (paragraphs 29-34 and 
points I and III under 2.d. of the Annex), previously 
endorsed  by  EDPB.  The  document  gives  further 
clarifications on the notion of main establishment in 
the context of joint controllership and builds on the 
EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller 
and processor in the GDPR.

Adopted: 10 October 2022

5.3.9.  GUIDELINES 9/2022 ON 

PERSONAL DATA BREACH 
NOTIFICATION UNDER GDPR

The Article 29 Working Party guidelines on personal 
data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679 
guidelines,  previously  endorsed  by  the  EDPB, 
outline  the  mandatory  breach  notification  and 
communications  requirements  of  the  GDPR  and 
provide suggestions for how controllers and processors 
can fulfil these obligations. In the targeted update of 
these guidelines, the EDPB clarifies the notification 
requirements  concerning  personal  data  breaches 
at  non-EU  establishments.  The  updated  guidelines 
specify that data controllers who are not established 
in the EU will need to notify data breaches to every 
single  authority  for  which  affected  data  subjects 
reside in their Member State. The mere presence of a 
representative in a Member State does not trigger the 
one-stop-shop system.  

Adopted: 10 October 2022

5.3.10.  GUIDELINES ADOPTED AFTER 

PUBLIC CONSULTATION

5.3.10.1.  GUIDELINES 01/2021 ON EXAMPLES 

REGARDING PERSONAL DATA 
BREACH NOTIFICATION

The EDPB adopted these practice-oriented and case-
based guidelines to help data controllers in deciding 
how  to  handle  personal  data  breaches  and  what 
factors to consider during risk assessment. 

The  guidelines  address  six  categories  of  personal 
data  breaches  and  outline  several  examples  of 
typical situations based on the SAs’ experience. The 
categories of personal data breaches addressed in the 
guidelines are as follows:

28

EDPB Annual Report 20221.  Ransomware  attacks  which  involve  malicious  code 
encrypting personal data, where the attacker requests 
a ransom in exchange for a decryption code.

2.  Data exfiltration attacks which exploit vulnerabilities 
in services offered over the internet and usually aim 
to copy, exfiltrate and abuse personal data for some 
malicious end.

3.  Internal  human-related  risk  source  which  refers  to 
human  errors  leading  to  personal  data  breaches, 
which  can  have  a  frequent  occurrence  and  can  be 
both  deliberate  or  accidental,  therefore  making  it 
difficult  for  data  controllers  to  identify  weaknesses 
and take steps to avoid them.

4.  Loss or theft of devices and/or documents which is 
a  frequent  occurrence  of  a  data  breach  that  might 
present a difficult risk assessment when devices are 
no longer available.

5.  Mispostal  which  involves  internal  human  error  in 
setting the recipient(s) of a communication. The error 
occurs due to inattentiveness without any malicious 
intention.

6.  Social  engineering  which  refers  to  psychological 
manipulation  attacks  involving  identity  theft  and 
email exfiltration.

For  each  category  of  personal  data  breaches  the 
guidelines  provide  advisable,  but  not  exclusive  or 
comprehensive, practical measures to be considered 
both when dealing with data breaches and for future 
prevention.

Adopted: 14 January 2021 and adopted in its final 
version following public consultation on 14 December 
2021

5.3.10.2.  GUIDELINES 04/2021 ON CODES OF 

CONDUCT AS TOOLS FOR TRANSFERS

In  accordance  with  Art.  46  GDPR,  controllers  and 
processors shall put in place appropriate safeguards 
for transfers of personal data to third countries or 
international  organisations.  Therefore,  the  GDPR 

distinguishes  the  appropriate  safeguards  that  may 
be used by organisations under Art. 46 for framing 
transfers to third countries by introducing, amongst 
others, codes of conduct as a new transfer mechanism 
(Arts.  40(3)  and  46(2)(e)  GDPR).  Controllers  and 
processors  are  required  to  make  binding  and 
enforceable commitments, via contractual or other 
legally binding instruments, to apply the appropriate 
safeguards. 

In the guidelines, the EDPB underlines that, in terms 
of content, such codes should address the essential 
principles, rights and obligations arising under the 
GDPR  for  controllers  and  processors  and  include 
guarantees that are specific to the context of transfers, 
such as onward transfers or conflict of laws in the third 
country. Striving towards a practical implementation 
of the guidelines, the EDPB provides a checklist of the 
elements to be covered.

These  guidelines,  which  complement  the  EDPB 
Guidelines  1/2019  on  Codes  of  Conduct  and 
Monitoring  Bodies  under  Regulation  2016/679, 
provide  clarification  as  to  the  role  of  the  different 
actors involved for the setting of a code to be used as 
a tool for transfers and the adoption process displayed 
through flow charts.

Adopted: 7 July 2021; formatting changes made on 22 
February 2022

5.4.  REGISTER FOR DECISIONS TAKEN 

BY SA AND COURTS ON ISSUES 
HANDLED IN THE CONSISTENCY 
MECHANISM

The EDPB maintains a publicly accessible electronic 
register of decisions taken by SAs and courts on issues 
handled in the consistency mechanism per Art. 70(1)
(y) GDPR. This register provides for accessibility and 
transparency of the decisions and further promotes 
the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  by  the 
European SAs.

29

EDPB Annual Report 2022All decisions added in 2022 are related to decisions 
made  by  the  SAs  following  the  EDPB  consistency 
opinions  or  following  the  01/2022  EDPB  binding 
decision on the dispute arisen on the draft decision of 
the French SA regarding Accor SA.

See Section 5.2 on consistency opinions and Section 
5.1 on binding decisions.

5.5.  LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

AND DOCUMENTS ADDRESSED 
TO THE EU INSTITUTIONS OR 
NATIONAL AUTHORITIES

5.5.1.  EDPS-EDPB JOINT OPINION 
1/2022 ON THE EXTENSION 
OF THE COVID-19 CERTIFICATE 
REGULATION

On  3  February  2022,  the  European  Commission 
adopted,  firstly,  a  Proposal  for  a  Regulation  on 
a  framework  for  the  issuance,  verification  and 
acceptance of interoperable COVID-19 vaccination, 
test  and  recovery  certificates  (EU  Digital  COVID 
Certificate)  to  facilitate  free  movement  during  the 
COVID-19 pandemic for EU citizens, and secondly, a 
Proposal for a Regulation on the same matters, but 
applying to third-country nationals legally staying or 
residing in the territories of Member States. 

As a general remark, the EDPB and the EDPS recall in 
their opinion that compliance with data protection 
rules does not constitute an obstacle to fighting the 
COVID-19 pandemic and that, at the same time, the 
general  principles  of  effectiveness,  necessity  and 
proportionality  must  guide  any  measure  adopted 
by Member States or EU institutions that involve the 
processing  of  personal  data  to  fight  COVID-19.  In 
addition, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that any 
restriction to the free movement of persons within 
the European Union put in place to limit the spread of 
SARS-CoV-2, including the requirement to present EU 
Digital COVID Certificates, should be lifted as soon as 
the epidemiological situation allows.

The  EDPS  and  EDPB  take  note  that  the  European 
Commission did not carry out an impact assessment 
for the Proposals, due to the urgency and their limited 
scope.  They  strongly  consider  that  the  Proposals 
should  be  accompanied  by  an  impact  assessment 
report, in order to provide a clear justification on the 
necessity and proportionality, taking into account the 
evolution of the epidemiological situation with regard 
to the COVID-19 pandemic together with the impact 
on fundamental rights and non-discrimination.

Lastly, the EDPB and the EDPS invite the Commission 
to assist the Member States in developing technical 
specifications  on  the  recognition  of  information 
about the COVID-19 vaccine and the number of doses 
administered to the holder, regardless of the Member 
State in which they have been administered.

Adopted: 14 March 2022

5.5.2.  EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION 

2/2022 ON THE PROPOSAL OF 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT 
AND OF THE COUNCIL ON 
HARMONISED RULES ON FAIR 
ACCESS TO AND USE OF DATA 
(DATA ACT)

In a joint effort, the EDPB and the EDPS comment 
on  overarching  concerns  related  to  the  Proposal 
for the Data Act and urge the co-legislator to take 
decisive action. While welcoming the efforts made to 
ensure that the Proposal does not affect the current 
data protection framework, the EDPB and the EDPS 
consider  that  additional  safeguards  are  necessary 
to avoid lowering the protection of the fundamental 
rights to privacy and to the protection of personal 
data  in  practice.  Their  comments  concern  three 
distinct areas: i) the rights to access, use and share 
data, ii) the obligation to make data available in case 
of “exceptional need”, and iii) the implementation and 
enforcement.

30

EDPB Annual Report 2022First, the Joint Opinion stresses the need for provisions 
explicitly  specifying  that  data  protection  law 
“prevails” in case of conflict with the provisions of the 
Proposal insofar as the processing of personal data 
is concerned. In addition, a more robust application 
of  the  data  minimisation  principle  is  encouraged 
when designing new products. Along with that, the 
Opinion calls for an enhancement of the right to data 
portability. In general, the EDPB and the EDPS stress 
the need to ensure that access, use, and sharing of 
personal data by users other than data subjects, as 
well as by third parties and data holders, should occur 
in full compliance with all of the provisions of the 
GDPR, EUDPR and ePrivacy Directive.

Second,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  express  concerns 
regarding the lawfulness, necessity and proportionality 
of the obligation to make data available to public sector 
bodies and EU institutions, agencies or bodies in case 
of “exceptional need”. They remind that any limitation 
of the right to protection of personal data must be 
based on a legal basis that is adequately accessible and 
foreseeable and formulated with sufficient precision 
to enable individuals to understand its scope. 

Third, regarding implementation and enforcement, 
the EDPB and the EDPS highlight the risk of operational 
difficulties that might result from the designation of 
more than one competent authority responsible for 
the  application  and  enforcement  of  the  Proposal. 
At the same time, they welcome the designation of 
the  data  protection  SAs  as  competent  authorities 
responsible  for  monitoring  the  application  of  the 
Proposal insofar as the protection of personal data 
is concerned, and they ask the co-legislators to also 
designate  national  SAs  as  coordinating  competent 
authorities under this Proposal.

Adopted: 4 May 2022

5.5.3.  EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION 
03/2022 ON THE PROPOSAL 
FOR A REGULATION ON THE 
EUROPEAN HEALTH DATA SPACE

The EDPB and the EDPS jointly expressed their views 
on the proposed Regulation on the European Health 
Data Space. The resulting opinion first notes that the 
Proposal  aims  at:  i)  supporting  individuals  to  take 
control of their own health data, ii) supporting the 
use  of  health  data  for  better  healthcare  delivery, 
better research, innovation and policy making, and 
iii) enabling the EU to make full use of the potential 
offered by a safe and secure exchange, use and reuse 
of health data. However, they are concerned that the 
Proposal may weaken the protection of the rights to 
privacy and to data protection, especially considering 
the categories of personal data and purposes that 
are related to the secondary use of data. They also 
note that the Proposal will add yet another layer to 
the  already  complex  (multi-layered)  collection  of 
provisions (to be found both in the EU and Member 
States law) on the processing of health data (in the 
health care sector). 

In that respect, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that 
it is important to clarify the relationship between the 
provisions in the Proposal with the ones in the GDPR 
and Member State laws. Additionally, with regards 
to  the  scope,  they  recommend  excluding  wellness 
applications  and  other  digital  applications,  as  well 
as wellness and behaviour data relevant to health. 
Should this be maintained, the EDPB and the EDPS 
suggest  that  personal  data  deriving  from  wellness 
apps and other digital health applications should not 
be included in the secondary use of health data, as 
they do not have the same data quality requirements 
and  characteristics  as  those  generated  by  medical 
devices.  Further,  they  strongly  recommend  not 
extending the scope of the GDPR exceptions regarding 
the data subject’s rights and note the need to remain 
consistent with the relevant GDPR provisions. 

31

EDPB Annual Report 2022material (CSAM) and child solicitation does not ensure 
that only targeted approaches to detecting CSAM are 
used. They raise the concern that the Proposal could 
potentially  be  used  as  a  basis  for  generalised  and 
indiscriminate scanning of the content of all types 
of electronic communications. As a result, the EDPB 
and EDPS recommend that the conditions for issuing 
detection orders be further clarified to address these 
concerns.

Additionally, the EDPB and EDPS raise concerns about 
the measures envisaged for the detection of unknown 
CSAM and the solicitation of children in interpersonal 
communication services, in particular due to likelihood 
of errors and their high level of intrusiveness into the 
privacy of individuals. Overall, the EDPB and the EDPS 
argue that the requirement imposed on online service 
providers to decrypt online communications in order 
to block those related to CSAM is disproportionate to 
the aim pursued. 

The  EDPB  and  EDPS  underline  that  breaking  or 
weakening  encryption  in  order  to  access  private 
communications would have a substantial impact on 
the right to private life and to the confidentiality of 
communications, freedom of expression, innovation 
and growth of the digital economy. 

Lastly,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  recommend  that  the 
relationship  between  the  tasks  of  the  national 
Coordinating  Authorities  under  the  Proposal  and 
SAs be better regulated. They also underline that the 
transmission  of  personal  data  between  the  newly 
proposed  EU  Centre  and  Europol  should  only  take 
place following a duly assessed request case-by-case.

Adopted: 28 July 2022

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  are  of  the  view  that  the 
Proposal  should  further  delineate  purposes  for 
secondary  use  and  circumscribe  when  there  is  a 
sufficient connection with public health and/or social 
security.

Lastly, the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that the 
infrastructure for the exchange of electronic health 
data  foreseen  in  the  Proposal  will  not  establish  a 
central  EU-database  of  health  data  and  will  only 
facilitate  the  exchange  of  such  health  data  from 
decentralised databases. However, due to the large 
quantity of data that would be processed and their 
highly  sensitive  nature,  among  others,  the  EDPB 
and the EDPS call for a requirement for storing the 
personal electronic health data in the EU/EEA, without 
prejudice  to  further  transfers  in  compliance  with 
Chapter V of the GDPR.

Adopted: 12 July 2022

5.5.4.  EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION 
04/2022 ON THE PROPOSAL 
FOR A REGULATION OF THE 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT 
AND OF THE COUNCIL LAYING 
DOWN RULES TO PREVENT AND 
COMBAT CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE

In relation to the European Commission’s Proposal for 
a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council laying down rules to prevent and combat child 
sexual abuse, the EDPB and the EDPS adopted a joint 
opinion on 28 July 2022. While emphasizing the gravity 
of child sexual abuse as a serious and heinous crime, 
the  Opinion  expresses  serious  concerns  regarding 
the proportionality of the envisaged interference and 
limitations to the protection of the fundamental rights 
to privacy and the protection of personal data. 

The EDPB and EDPS note that the Proposal’s lack of 
detail, clarity, and precision regarding the conditions 
for issuing a detection order for child sexual abuse 

32

EDPB Annual Report 20225.5.5.  STATEMENT 01/2022 ON THE 

5.5.6.  STATEMENT 04/2022 ON THE 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF AN 
AGREEMENT IN PRINCIPLE ON 
A NEW TRANS-ATLANTIC DATA 
PRIVACY FRAMEWORK

The GDPR requires that the European Commission 
seeks  an  opinion  of  the  EDPB  before  adopting  a 
possible  new  adequacy  decision  recognising  as 
satisfactory the level of data protection guaranteed 
by a third country. In principle, the EDPB welcomes 
the announcement of a political agreement between 
the European Commission and the United States on 
25 March 2022 on a new Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy 
Framework. This announcement is made at a time 
when transfers from the EEA to the U.S. face significant 
challenges.

The  EDPB  looks  forward  to  carefully  assessing  the 
improvements that a new Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy 
Framework may bring in light of the EU law, the case 
law of the CJEU and the recommendations EDPB made 
on that basis. In particular, the EDPB will analyse in 
detail how these reforms ensure that the collection of 
personal data for national security purposes is limited 
to what is strictly necessary and proportionate.

Lastly,  the  EDPB  will  examine  to  what  extent  the 
announced independent redress mechanism respects 
the EEA individuals’ right to an effective remedy and to 
a fair trial. In particular, the EDPB will look at whether 
any new authority involved in this mechanism has 
access  to  relevant  information,  including  personal 
data,  when  exercising  its  mission  and  can  adopt 
decisions binding on the intelligence services, and 
whether  there  is  a  judicial  remedy  against  this 
authority’s decisions or inaction.

Adopted: 6 April 2022

DESIGN CHOICES FOR A DIGITAL 
EURO FROM THE PRIVACY AND 
DATA PROTECTION PERSPECTIVE

In its Statement, the EDPB emphasises the importance 
of ensuring a very high standard of privacy and data 
protection by design and by default in the digital euro 
project.  To  meet  this  standard,  the  EDPB  suggests 
that different design choices should be considered 
and  adopted  based  on  a  documented  impact 
assessment prioritising innovative and privacy-enhancing 
technologies.

The  EDPB  cautions  against  the  use  of  systematic 
validation and tracing of all transactions in digital euro. 
In this regard, the EDPB advises that the digital euro 
be made available both online and offline, along a 
threshold below which no tracing is possible, in order 
to guarantee full anonymity of daily transactions. 

The EDPB also welcomes the European Commission’s 
intention to propose in 2023 a specific legal framework 
for  the  digital  euro,  for  which  it  stands  ready  to 
provide relevant guidance.  Finally, the EDPB urges the 
European Central Bank and the European Commission 
to enhance public debate on the digital euro project to 
ensure it meets the highest standards of privacy and 
data protection.

Adopted: 10 October 2022

5.5.7.  RESPONSE OF THE EDPB TO THE 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION’S 
TARGETED CONSULTATION ON A 
DIGITAL EURO

In  April  2022,  the  European  Commission  launched 
a public consultation to gather information on the 
expected impact of the digital euro on stakeholders, 
including with regard to its privacy and data protection 
aspects.  

33

EDPB Annual Report 2022In its contribution to this consultation, the EDPB recalls 
the views it expressed to the European institutions in 
a letter of June 2021, namely that a high level of data 
protection and privacy rights is crucial to strengthen 
end-users’ trust in the digital euro project, and thus to 
ensure its acceptance by European citizens. In order to 
achieve this, the EDPB recommends that the features 
of the digital euro be designed as closely as possible to 
physical cash.

In  particular,  the  EDPB  stresses  the  importance  of 
providing individuals with a bearer-based architecture 
available both online and offline. Furthermore, the 
EDPB is of the opinion that controls of transactions 
should  only  be  carried  out  by  the  competent 
authorities and reduced to the minimum necessary. 
Finally, the EDPB recommends that such transactions 
should  not  be  traceable  at  all  below  a  certain 
threshold.

Adopted: 14 June 2022

5.5.8.  STATEMENT ON THE 

IMPLICATIONS OF THE CJEU 
JUDGMENT C-817/19 ON THE USE 
OF PNR IN MEMBER STATES

Following the CJEU judgment on the Directive (EU) 
2016/681 (also referred to as the “PNR Directive”) on 
the use of passenger name record (PNR) data for the 
prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution 
of  terrorist  offences  and  serious  crime,  the  EDPB 
adopted a Statement on 13 December 2022.  

In  its  ruling,  the  CJEU  set  out  strict  limitations 
which must be observed by a Member State when 
transposing  and  applying  the  PNR  Directive.  The 
limitations that stand out as the most relevant ones 
are: 

• 

limitation  to  the  purposes  set  out  in  the  PNR 
Directive, which are exhaustive; 

• 

• 

• 

application  of  the  PNR  system  only  to  terrorist 
offences  and  serious  crime  having  an  objective 
link, even if only an indirect one, with the carriage 
of  passengers by air and  thus  also  exclusion  of 
ordinary crime;

limitation of the application of the PNR Directive 
with regard to intra-EU flights and other means 
of transport; and 

no  indiscriminate  application  of  the  general 
retention period of five years to all air passengers’ 
personal data. 

In response to the judgment, the EDPB, through its 
Statement, asked Member States to take all necessary 
steps to guarantee that their national implementations 
of the PNR Directive are in line with the fundamental 
right to the protection of personal data, as laid down in 
Art. 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. Steps 
taken by the Member States must include legislative 
measures as well as the identification of measures that 
can be adopted promptly in practice. 

Adopted: 13 December 2022

5.6.  OTHER GUIDANCE AND 
INFORMATION NOTES

5.6.1.  STATEMENT 02/2022 ON 

PERSONAL DATA TRANSFERS TO 
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

Recent geopolitical developments had Russia excluded 
from  the  Council  of  Europe  on  16  March  2022. 
Although Russia continues to be a contracting party to 
conventions and protocols concluded in the framework 
of the Council of Europe to which it has expressed 
its  consent  to  be  bound,  for  instance,  Convention 
108, the modalities of Russia’s participation in these 
instruments are still to be determined.

In its Statement, the EDPB recalls that the transfer 
of personal data to a third country, in the absence of 

34

EDPB Annual Report 2022an adequacy decision of the European Commission 
pursuant  to  Art.  45  GDPR,  is  only  possible  if  the 
controller  or  processor  has  provided  appropriate 
safeguards, and on condition that enforceable rights 
and  effective  legal  remedies  are  available  for  data 
subjects (Art. 46 GDPR), or in specific circumstances, 
only on one of the conditions set forth in Art. 49 GDPR.

Russia does not benefit from an adequacy finding by 
the European Commission in accordance with Art. 45 
GDPR. Therefore, the EDPB notes that, when personal 
data are transferred to Russia, data exporters under 
the GDPR should assess and identify the legal basis 
for the transfer and the instrument to be used among 
those provided by Chapter V GDPR (e.g., Standard 
Contractual  Clauses  or  Binding  Corporate  Rules), 
in  order  to  ensure  the  application  of  appropriate 
safeguards.

SAs of EEA Member States which have close economic 
and historic ties with Russia are already looking into 
the lawfulness of data transfers to Russia, including 
in  the  context  of  ongoing  investigations.  They  will 
handle cases involving data transfers to Russia, taking 
into account the increased impact on the rights and 
freedoms of data subjects that may arise from such 
data processing operations, and will coordinate within 
the EDPB, as appropriate.

Adopted: 12 July 2022

5.7.  GDPR COOPERATION AND 

ENFORCEMENT

5.7.1.  STATEMENT ON ENFORCEMENT 

COOPERATION

On 28 April 2022, the EDPB adopted a Statement on 
enforcement  cooperation,  following  a  high-level 
meeting  in  Vienna  where  EDPB  members  agreed 
to  enhance  cooperation  on  strategic  cases  and  to 
diversify the range of cooperation methods used. 

The Statement recalls the SAs’ commitment to close 
cross-border cooperation. The SAs agree to collectively 
and regularly identify cross-border cases of strategic 
importance,  with  the  EDPB’s  support,  in  different 
Member States. Additionally, SAs commit to further 
exchanging  information  on  national  enforcement 
strategies in order to reach an agreement on annual 
enforcement priorities at the EDPB level.

The  Statement  also  reiterates  the  EDPB’s  role  in 
ensuring a consistent interpretation of the GDPR. The 
EDPB shall deal with specific legal issues on matters 
of general application as well as facilitate the cross-
border exchange of information. Lastly, in order to 
maximise the positive impact of GDPR cooperation, 
the EDPB set out to identify a list of procedural aspects 
that can be further harmonised in EU law.

For  more  on  the  Statement  on  enforcement 
cooperation see  Section 3.1.1.

Adopted: 28 April 2022

5.7.2.  EDPB DOCUMENT ON THE 

SELECTION OF CASES OF 
STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE

Following the Vienna meeting of April 2022, the EDPB 
adopted  a  document  that  establishes  criteria  for 
determining whether a case is of strategic importance, 
in 
line  with  the  Statement  on  enforcement 
cooperation.  The  EDPB  considers  cases  to  be  of 
strategic importance if there is a high risk to the rights 
and freedoms of natural persons in several Member 
States. 

Pursuant  to  the  document,  a  proposal  voluntarily 
submitted by an SA may qualify as a case of strategic 
importance  if  it  concerns  a  structural  or  recurring 
problem  in  several  Member  States,  is  related  to 
the intersection of data protection with other legal 
fields, and/or affects a large number of data subjects 
in several Member States. Cases that involve a large 

35

EDPB Annual Report 2022number of complaints in several Member States, a 
fundamental issue falling within the scope of the EDPB 
strategy, and/or matters where the GDPR implies that 
high risk can be assumed, also qualify as strategically 
important cases.

Further,  the  EDPB  lays  down  in  its  document  the 
process  and  timeline  for  the  selection  of  cases.  A 
template for the proposal of a strategic case is also 
provided by the EDPB, to ensure that Member States 
include all the information relevant to the case when 
submitting their proposal.

5.7.3.  COORDINATED ENFORCEMENT 

FRAMEWORK

Ever  since  the  implementation  of  the  GDPR,  the 
EDPB has emphasised the importance of consistent 
enforcement  through  cooperation  efforts.  Hence, 
in  line  with  its  2021-2023  Strategy,  the  EDPB  set 
up  a  Coordinated  Enforcement  Framework  (CEF), 
which  provides  a  structure  for  recurring  annual 
coordinated action by SAs. The CEF works to facilitate 
joint actions in a coordinated and flexible manner, 
including activities such as joint awareness campaigns, 
information gathering, enforcement sweeps as well 
as joint investigations. Annual coordinated efforts are 
intended to improve compliance, empower individuals 
to exercise their rights and increase awareness of data 
protection issues. 

In 2022, the EDPB considerably increased its efforts 
to streamline enforcement cooperation, particularly 
through  various  initiatives  focused  on  improving 
cooperation among SAs. During the year, as a result of 
effective cooperation, EDPB members launched their 
first coordinated action on the use of Cloud-based 
services by the public sector. 

For more on enforcement cooperation, see Section 
3.1.

5.7.4.  SUPPORT POOL OF EXPERTS

As part of its 2021-2023 Strategy, the EDPB established 
a Support Pool of Experts (SPE) in 2020. The SPE’s main 
objective is to assist SAs in carrying out investigations 
and  enforcement  activities  of  significant  common 
interest. The  SPE  provides  support  in  the  form  
of  expertise  for  investigations  and enforcement   
activities   of   common   interest   to   SAs   and   
enhances cooperation/solidarity  by  reinforcing  and  
complementing  the  strengths  of the individual SAs 
and addressing operational needs. This includes but 
is not limited to, analytical support, assistance in the 
performance findings of a forensic nature, as well as 
in the preparation of investigative reports on the basis 
of evidence collected. Further, the SPE enhances the 
cooperation and solidarity between all EDPB members 
by sharing, reinforcing and complementing strengths 
and addressing operational needs. 

A call for external experts was launched and at the 
end of 2022, the SPE was composed of 409 external 
experts. 

5.8.  PLENARY MEETINGS AND 

SUBGROUPS

In the period between 1 January and 31 December 
2022, the EDPB held 15 plenary meetings.

The  agendas  and  minutes  of  these  meetings  are 
published on the EDPB website. The outcome of the 
plenary  meetings  consists  of  adopted  guidelines, 
opinions and other documents such as statements 
or  information  notes  to  advise  the  European 
Commission, national SAs and other stakeholders on 
data protection matters, with a primary focus on the 
GDPR. Additionally, there were 160 expert subgroup 
meetings and 172 drafting team meetings. In total, 
347 meetings were held, including plenary meetings, 
expert subgroup meetings, task force meetings and 
drafting team meetings.

36

EDPB Annual Report 2022The different expert subgroups focus on specific areas 
of data protection and assist the EDPB in performing 
its  tasks.  Chapter  9  outlines  the  list  of  the  expert 
subgroups and their respective mandates.

To increase transparency, the stakeholders’ contributions 
to  public  consultations  are  published  by  the  EDPB 
on  its  website.  In  2022,  the  EDPB  launched  several 
consultations:

5.9.  STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

5.9.1.  STAKEHOLDER EVENTS 

The EDPB invited various NGOs to the 69th Plenary 
meeting to discuss challenges caused by differences 
in  national  administrative 
law.  Participants  
acknowledged the importance of the Vienna meeting 
and the EDPB statement on enforcement cooperation. 
They indicated that a significant number of the issues 
they  faced  with  the  One-Stop-Shop  were  caused 
by differences in national procedural law. The NGO 
representatives  notably  discussed  the  procedural 
issues faced when lodging complaints. Constructive 
criticism was given in the context of the SAs’ duty to 
decide on a complaint, specifically regarding the lack 
of information they provide to the complainants.  

The NGOs stressed that in order to ensure the right 
to a legal remedy, every complaint must lead to a 
formal  decision.  They  further  advocated  for  clear 
deadlines for each step of the cooperation procedure 
and identified issues related to the informal closing or 
narrowing down the scope of complaints. Additionally, 
the NGOs addressed, among others, the notification of 
decisions. Finally, the NGOs stated that reopening the 
GDPR at this stage was unnecessary.

5.9.2.  PUBLIC CONSULTATION ON 

DRAFT GUIDANCE

Following  the  preliminary  adoption  of  guidelines, 
the  EDPB  organises  public  consultations  to  give 
stakeholders and citizens the opportunity to provide 
additional input. The EDPB Members and the EDPB 
Secretariat  in  charge  of  drafting  the  guidelines 
consider this input before adopting the guidelines in 
their final version.  

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

In January, the EDPB opened public consultations 
on  Guidelines  01/2022  on  data  subject  rights 
-  Right  of  access.  There  were  72  contributions 
made  to  the  guidelines  from  a  mix  of  entities 
such as business associations, NGOs, companies, 
research institutions and consumer organisations. 
Natural  persons  also  contributed  to  the  public 
consultation.  

In  March,  Guidelines  3/2022  on  Dark  patterns 
in  social  media  platform  interfaces:  How  to 
recognise and avoid them were open for public 
consultations.  A  total  of  26  contributions  were 
made  to  these  guidelines.  Contributors  were 
mostly DPO entities and NGOs.  

in  May, 

Later 
the  EDPB  opened  public 
consultations  on  both  Guidelines  04/2022  on 
the  calculation  of  administrative  fines  under 
the  GDPR  and  Guidelines  05/2022  on  the  use 
of  facial  recognition  technology  in  the  area  of 
law  enforcement.  Guidelines  04/2022  received 
feedback  from  33  entities,  whereas  Guidelines 
05/2022 
received  14  contributions.  While 
contributors  to  the  former  Guidelines  are  in 
majority DPO entities and business associations, 
Guidelines  05/2022  received  feedback  from  a 
mix  of  contributors  such  as  public  authorities, 
academic institutions and NGOs.  

In  late  June,  public  consultations  were  opened 
for Guidelines 07/2022 on certification as a tool 
for  transfers.  A  total  of  20  contributions  were 
made,  nine  of  which  were  written  by  business 
associations. 

for 
Two  guidelines  were  also  published 
in  October,  namely:  Guidelines 
consultation 
8/2022 on identifying a controller or processor’s 

37

EDPB Annual Report 2022• 

lead  supervisory  authority  and  Guidelines 
9/2022  on  personal  data  breach  notification 
under  GDPR.  There  were  six  contributions  to 
Guidelines  8/2022,  and    20  contributions  to 
Guidelines 9/2022.  

Lastly, in November, the EDPB invited feedback 
on Recommendations 1/2022 on the Application 
for Approval and on the elements and principles 
to  be  found  in  Controller  Binding  Corporate 
Rules  (Art.  47  GDPR),  which  were  accepting 
contributors  until  10  January  2023.  Regarding 
these recommendations, 15 contributions were 
submitted. 

5.9.3.  SURVEY ON PRACTICAL 

APPLICATION OF ADOPTED 
GUIDANCE

The EDPB conducted the fifth annual survey as part 
of  its  review  of  activities  under  Art.  71(2)  GDPR. 
The survey focused on EDPB’s work and output in 
2022 – particularly its guidelines, joint opinions and 
consultation work – to determine the usefulness of 
its  guidance  for  interpreting  GDPR  provisions  and 
to  identify  ways  to  better  support  organisations 
and individuals in navigating the EU data protection 
framework. 

The  survey  collected  the  opinions  of  various  key 
stakeholders  with  diverse  interests  and  concerns 
regarding EU data protection law, in order to gather 
a comprehensive insight into how the EDPB’s work 
in  2022  was  perceived  in  the  data  protection  and 
privacy sector. Among the individuals surveyed were 
privacy  and  IT  experts,  representatives  of  EU  DPO 
organisations,  as  well  as  academics  and  lawyers 
in  the  field  of  data  protection  and  privacy  rights. 
The questions asked were based on a standardised 
questionnaire. The collected data was synthesised and 
common themes were identified.  

In general, the surveyed stakeholders agreed that the 
EDPB’s guidelines and joint opinions were coherent, 
pertinent and provided examples of practical value. 
Specific praises were given to the Guidelines 9/2022 
on  personal  data  breach  notification  under  GDPR, 
which  stakeholders  noted  offered  better  examples 
compared to guidelines adopted in previous years. 
Indeed,  examples  were  deemed  clear  and  could 
be  easily  relied  on  to  address  real-life  scenarios. 
With regard to Guidelines 06/2022 on the practical 
implementation of amicable settlements, a limited 
number of stakeholders argued that the examples, 
despite  being  generally  good,  sometimes  lacked 
clarity. 

The  surveyed  stakeholders  confirmed  that  they 
consult  EDPB  guidelines  and  joint  opinions  on  a 
near-daily  basis  for  professional  purposes.  It  was 
notably  indicated  that  the  stakeholders  made  use 
of the EDPB’s guidance as a basis of interpretation 
when  dealing  with  different  applicable  laws.  Most 
stakeholders  transform  the  EDPB’s  guidelines  and 
recommendations into practical tools to implement 
high-level  policies.  However,  they  also  noted  the 
challenge of swiftly doing such a transformation due to 
the dissimilar structure of the guidelines.  

Stakeholders  also  pointed  out  that  the  guidelines 
are easily readable for experts in the field of data 
protection, while acknowledging that the language 
used  is  somewhat  too  technical  for  the  larger 
public  and  key  concepts  could  be  made  more 
succinct. Suggestions were made to release shorter, 
supplementary versions of final documents, as well 
as consider the adoption of infographics and hashtags 
of  key  terms  to  render  the  data  more  accessible. 
Additionally, stakeholders expressed the urgency for 
faster implementation of new guidelines and their 
revisions after public consultation.   

With  respect  to  consultations  and  workshops 
organised  by  the  EDPB,  participants  expressed  a 
desire for a more transparent overview of how their 

38

EDPB Annual Report 2022bodies, or when they, or the EDPB Staff represent the 
EDPB at conferences and multi-stakeholder platforms, 
they are supported by the EDPB Secretariat. Staff from 
the EDPB Secretariat themselves participate in several 
events to promote EDPB’s activities. As such, the EDPB 
participates in various groups and summits, such as 
the Global Privacy Assembly, the G7 DPA roundtable, 

ENISA  Advisory  Group,  Stakeholder  Cybersecurity 
Certification Group. 

As Chair of the EDPB, Andrea Jelinek, had more than 
26 speaking engagements in 2022. These speaking 
engagements included press briefings, presentations 
and  panel  discussions  for  a  range  of  institutes, 
academic forums and policy agencies. During the year, 
the Chair also met with European Commissioners, as 
well as representatives from UNESCO and the Council 
of  the  EU  Working  Party  on  Information  Exchange 
and  Data  Protection,  among  others.  Furthermore, 
she attended several seminars and summits on data 
protection and privacy matters.  

In 2022, Deputy Chairs Ventsislav Karadjov and Aleid 
Wolfsen  took  part  in  four  speaking  engagements 
which consisted of speeches, presentations and panel 
discussions at several conferences and forums. 

A total of 38 events were attended both physically and 
virtually by the EDPB Staff. These events were largely 
hosted by, amongst others, universities, law firms, 
companies and EU institutions. 

suggestions were incorporated into the documents 
after the consultation process.  

Regarding the accessibility of EDPB guidance on its 
website, stakeholders are largely satisfied. Indeed, 
they  noted  a  substantial  enhancement  in  the 
communication and openness of the EDPB. 

In  terms  of  the  EDPB’s  future  work,  stakeholders 
showed  their  support  for  guidelines  on  the  role 
of  DPOs,  as  well  as  for  updated  guidance  on 
anonymisation and pseudonymisation. Stakeholders 
also  expressed  the  need  for  the  EDPB  to  take  a 
stronger  standpoint  when  dealing  with  adequacy-
related  issues.  Some  stakeholders  also  find  that 
guidelines covering multiple topics are harder to read 
than documents focusing on sector-specific issues. 
Thereby, they underlined the importance of adopting 
more sectorial guidelines in the future.  

Overall, the EDPB received high praise for the quality 
of the guidance it provided in 2022 and was especially 
recognised for its success in clarifying complex GDPR 
concepts through the production of comprehensive 
documents.  

The EDPB greatly values the engagement and input 
from stakeholders in its work and strives to implement 
such input in its 2023 activities. The feedback on the 
value of the guidance and general work of the EDPB 
was appreciated as it provided useful insights into the 
needs of stakeholders. The EDPB intends to persist in 
maintaining and strengthening the coherence of its 
efforts in the future.

5.10.   EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF 

THE BOARD

Public  awareness  and  cooperation  are  vital  to 
upholding  data  protection  rights  in  the  EEA  and 
beyond, which is why the EDPB values stakeholder 
and citizen engagement. When the Chair and Deputy 
Chairs of the EDPB engage with other EU institutions or 

39

EDPB Annual Report 20226

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
ACTIVITIES IN 2022

6.1.  CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION

Under  the  GDPR,  national  Supervisory  Authorities 
(SAs) have a duty to cooperate to ensure the consistent 
application of data protection law. In cases that have 
a cross-border component, the SAs of the European 
Economic Area (EEA), i.e. the 27 EU Member States 
plus Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, have a range 
of tools at their disposal to facilitate harmonisation.  

These tools are: 

•  Mutual assistance; 

• 

• 

Joint operations; 

The One-Stop-Shop (OSS) cooperation 
mechanism.

6.1.1.  PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE 
TO IDENTIFY THE LEAD AND 
CONCERNED SUPERVISORY 
AUTHORITIES

Before starting an OSS procedure for a cross-border 
case, it is necessary to identify the Lead Supervisory 
Authority (LSA) and the other Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs).  

The LSA is identified as the SA of the EEA country 
where  the  data  controller  or  processor  under 
investigation has its main establishment. To identify 
a controller’s or processor’s main establishment, one 
key criterion is the place of central administration. 
Further information on this subject is available in the 
Article 29 Working Party Guidelines for identifying a 
controller’s or processor’s LSA, endorsed by the EDPB 
at its first plenary meeting on 25 May 2018.  

40

EDPB Annual Report 2022The EDPB created workflows in the Internal Market 
Information System (IMI) to enable SAs to identify their 
respective roles. This IT platform is used to support 
cooperation and consistency procedures under the 
GDPR. The main purpose of this procedure is to define 
roles at an early stage.  

In case of conflicting views regarding which SA should 
act as LSA, the EDPB acts as a dispute resolution body 
and issues a binding decision.  

From  1  January  2022  to  31  December  2022,  there 
were  624  instances  in  which  LSAs  and  CSAs  were 
identified.

6.1.2.  DATABASE REGARDING CASES 

WITH A CROSS-BORDER 
COMPONENT

A case with a cross-border component is registered in 
a central database via the IMI and may occur in several 
situations:  

•  When  the  data  controller  or  processor  has  an 
establishment in more than one Member State;  

•  When  the  data  processing  activity  substantially 
affects  individuals  in  more  than  one  Member 
State; and/or 

•  When SAs are simply exchanging information, i.e. 

providing each other with mutual assistance. 

Between  1  January  and  31  December  2022,  there 
were 310 entries in the database out of which 254 
originated  from  a  complaint,  while  56  had  other 
origins, such as investigations, legal obligations and/
or media reports.  

Please note that:  

• 

References  to  case  register  entries  in  these 
statistics do not have a 1-to-1 correlation to the 
number of cross-border complaints handled per 
country as multiple complaints may be bundled 
in  one  case  register  entry,  which  therefore  can 
relate to multiple cross-border cases; 

•  Depending  on  the  Member  State  legislation, 
supervisory  authorities  may  have  handled 
complaints  outside  of  the  Art  60  procedure  in 
accordance with their national law.

6.1.3.  ONE-STOP-SHOP MECHANISM 

AND DECISIONS

The OSS mechanism demands cooperation between 
the LSA and the CSAs. The LSA leads the investigation 
and  plays  a  key  role  in  the  process  of  reaching  a 
consensus between the CSAs, in addition to working 
towards reaching a coordinated decision. 

The LSA must first investigate the case while taking 
into  account  national  procedural  rules.  During 
this  phase,  the  LSA  can  gather  information  from 
another SA via mutual assistance or by conducting 
a joint investigation. The IMI also gives the LSA the 
opportunity to informally communicate with all CSAs 
to collect relevant information. 

Once  the  LSA  has  completed  its  investigation,  it 
prepares a draft decision, which it communicates to 
the CSAs. They have the right to object. This either 
leads to a revised draft decision or, if no consensus can 
be found, the EDPB acts as a dispute resolution body 
and issues a binding decision. The LSA must adopt its 
final decision on the basis of the EDPB’s decision. 

Between  1  January  2022  and  31  December  2022, 
there were 714 OSS procedures, which resulted in 
330 final decisions.2  

2     Please note that this may include as well ‘sui generis’ decision in the meaning of paragraph 38 of the EDPB Guidelines 06/2022 on the prac-

41

EDPB Annual Report 2022The  IMI  offers  different  procedures  that  can  be 
followed when handling OSS cases: 

• 

Informal consultation procedures; 

•  Draft decisions or revised decisions submitted by 

the LSA to the CSAs; and/or 

• 

Final  OSS  decisions  submitted  to  the  CSAs  and 
the EDPB. 

The  OSS  case  register  is  a  valuable  resource  to 
showcase  how  SAs  work  together  to  enforce  the 
GDPR. It offers an exceptional opportunity to read final 
decisions taken by, and involving, different SAs relating 
to specific data subject rights.

6.1.3.1. 

CASE DIGEST ON THE RIGHT TO 
OBJECT

This  section  offers  a  case  digest  which  analyses 
decisions  relating  to  Art.  17  (right  to  erasure)  and 
21  GDPR  (right  to  object).3  The  case  digest  was 
commissioned as part of the EDPB’s Support Pool of 
Experts initiative, which aims to support cooperation 
among SAs by providing expertise and tools related to 
enforcement.4

6.1.3.1.1.  THE RIGHT TO OBJECT AND ITS 
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE RIGHT 
TO ERASURE IN DATA SUBJECT 
COMPLAINTS

The application of Art. 21 GDPR (right to object) is 
often  combined  with  the  exercise  of  the  right  to 
erasure, as enshrined in Art. 17 GDPR. Art. 17(1) GDPR 
recognises this right when the data subject objects to 

processing pursuant to Art. 21(1) GDPR and there are 
no overriding legitimate grounds for data processing,5 
or when the data subject objects to data processing 
performed for direct marketing purposes pursuant to 
Art. 21(2) GDPR. 

Most of the cases decided by SAs under Art. 21 GDPR 
deal with the use of personal data for direct marketing 
(Art.  21(2)  GDPR),  rather  than  objections  to  the 
processing of data in the performance of tasks carried 
out in the public interest, in the exercise of official 
authority vested in the controller, or on the basis of 
legitimate interests (Art. 21(1) GDPR). Thus, in the 
cases examined, there is a frequent link between the 
request to stop any further processing of personal 
data  for  marketing  purposes6  and  the  request  to 
erase previously collected data.  

Against  this  background,  two  main  sets  of  issues 
characterise the case law on Art. 21 GDPR, as emerging 
from the decisions adopted within the cooperation 
mechanism provided for in Art. 60 GDPR: (i) issues 

tical implementation of amicable settlements.

3  The analysis is based on the information gathered and the outcomes of the relevant inspection activities carried out as referred to by the 

SAs in their final decisions. This may entail some limitations in having a comprehensive view of individual cases. 

Finally, since in the vast majority of cases the right to erasure is associated with right to object, the case law on Art. 21 GDPR is discussed 
before the decisions relating to Art. 17. This follows the most common sequence of requests that the SAs have to deal with and whose or-
der contributes to shaping their decisions.

4  This thematic section was produced by Alessandro Mantelero (9 December 2022), who was contracted in the framework of the Support 

Pool of Experts.

5  See Section III.3 below.

6  Art. 21(2) and Art. 21(3) GDPR.

42

EDPB Annual Report 2022concerning effective exercising of the right to object by 
data subjects, and (ii) issues relating to the procedure 
adopted by data controllers and processors in handling 
complaints from data subjects.

6.1.3.1.2.  EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO OBJECT  

Three particular elements relevant to the exercise of 
the right to object are highlighted: (i) the information 
provided to the data subject about the right to object,7 
(ii)  the  solutions  –  including  technical  solutions  – 
adopted to make the exercise of this right easier, and 
(iii) the implementation of appropriate procedures 
to handle such requests. The first two elements are 
discussed in this section, while the last one is covered 
in Section 6.1.3.3. 

Several cases concern non-compliance with the GDPR 
because the controller did not provide data subjects 
with any information on the right to object, in contrast 
with Art. 13(2)(b) GDPR [EDPBI:ES:OSS:D:2021:263].8 
One  such  case  decided  in  2021  concerned  a 
complainant receiving direct marketing by email from 
a bank without receiving information about the right 
to object to the processing of personal data for direct 
marketing  purposes,  pursuant  to  Art.  21(4)  GDPR 
[EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2021:292].  Data  subjects  were 
targeted with direct marketing emails without having 
the option to opt out when registering their email 

addresses, and were only able to do so by changing 
their preferences once they had accessed the online 
banking service, or by contacting customer service.9 

This  case  is  also  relevant  in  highlighting  some 
in  the  technical  and 
recurring  shortcomings 
organisational  solutions  adopted  by  controllers 
in dealing with this type of request. These include 
lack  of  capacity  and  backlogs  in  customer  service 
departments  [EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2021:292],  as 
well  as  incorrect  processing  of  objection  requests 
[EDPBI:EE:OSS:D:2019:55], where the data subject’s 
request  was  not  properly  registered  resulting  in 
the implementation of the objection with regard to 
only one account in a case of multiple user accounts 
and  technical  errors  within  the  system  [EDPBI:CZ.
OSS:D:2021:312] creating delays in complying with 
Art. 21 GDPR.10  

It is worth noting that the controller is required to 
facilitate the exercise of data subject rights11 and that, 
in the context of information society services, the right 
to object may be exercised by automated means using 
technical solutions.12 Although shortcomings regarding 
the exercise of the right to object are often part of a 
broader lack of compliance by data controllers, a focus 
on the design of the legal and technical solutions used 
to enable the exercising of this right plays a crucial role 
in terms of compliance.13

7  See also, inter alia, CJEU, case C-201/14, Smaranda Bara and Others v Președintele Casei Naționale de Asigurări de Sănătate, Casa Naţională 

de Asigurări de Sănătate, Agenţia Naţională de Administrare Fiscală (ANAF), para 33.

⁸  See Recital 70 relating to the right to object for direct marketing.

⁹ 

In this case, the LSA issued a reprimand and ordered the controller to implement measures to ensure that personal data is no longer pro-
cessed for direct marketing when so requested by data subjects and to ensure that data subject requests under Art. 15 to Art. 22 GDPR are 
answered within the time limits set in Art. 12(3) GDPR.

10  See also Art. 12(3) GDPR.

11  See Article 29 Working Party guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on 29 November 2017 and revised on 
11 April 2018, available at https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/items/622227/en, accessed 10.10.2022, 26-27. These guidelines were 
endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018.

12  See Art. 21(5) GDPR.

13  See e.g. EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:73; EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:8.

43

EDPB Annual Report 2022Finally, as regards how this right can be exercised, in 
the cases reviewed the data subjects were not asked 
for a request in legal terms, as even a generic request 
not to receive further marketing messages (such as 
“I ask for a guarantee that this will not repeat itself”, 
EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2021:292)  could  be  considered 
appropriate.

6.1.3.1.3.  COMPLAINTS HANDLING 

PROCEDURE 

Most of the cases decided under Art. 60 GDPR show 
deficiencies  in  the  internal  procedure  adopted  to 
deal with such requests,14 including related aspects 
such as the accuracy of the procedure and internal 
communication,15  the  timeframe  for  processing 
requests,16 and accountability (e.g. evidence that a 
system for receiving/tracking complaints has been put 
in place).17 

Legal  design  elements  play  an  important  role 
in  enabling  the  right  to  object  in  relation  to  this 
procedural dimension. Cumbersome procedures and 
language barriers should be avoided.18 This should 
prevent cases such as the one when a contact email 
address was provided for the exercise of data subjects’ 
rights, but an automated response referred the data 

subject to the “Contact us” form on the website, thus 
setting up a cumbersome procedure instead of directly 
handling  the  requests  through  the  contact  email 
[EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2022:326]. 

The  design  of  interaction  with  the  data  subject 
must therefore be carefully considered, using a clear 
and easily accessible form (see Art. 12 GDPR)19 and 
avoiding any misunderstanding. For example, when 
using a no-reply email address for marketing purposes, 
data subjects must be informed in a clear manner and 
in the body of such emails that the message does not 
allow replies to the sender and, therefore, that any 
objections expressed by replying will be ineffective.20 
In addition, emails acknowledging receipt of objection 
requests  must  provide  data  subjects  with  timely 
information on the timeframe for implementation of 
their requests; data subjects must then be correctly 
informed about the outcome of the exercise of their 
rights.21 

Specific  procedures  to  process  objection  requests 
– including appropriate technical solutions – must 
therefore be adopted by data controllers, involving 
data  processors  according  to  the  task  distribution 
relating to processing operations,22 being aware that

14  See EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:184; EDPBI:ES:OSS:D:2021:263; EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2021:292; EDPBI:CZ.OSS:D:2021:312; EDPBI:-

FR:OSS:D:2022:326.

15  See EDPBI:UK:OSS:D:2019:31.

16  See EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2018:9.

17  See EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2019:57; EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2019:58; EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:84.

18  See Art. 12 GDPR. See also Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on 29 November 
2017 and revised on 11 April 2018, available at https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/items/622227/en, accessed 10.10.2022, 10. These 
guidelines were endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018.

19  See Art. 12 GDPR. See also EDPB, Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights - Right of access, Version 1.0, Adopted - version for public con-
sultation, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/documents/public-consultations/2022/guidelines-012022-data-subject-rights-
right_en, accessed 20.11.2022, 42-44.

20  See e.g. EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:8.

21  See EDPBI:EE:OSS:D:2019:55 and EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:41.

22  See e.g. EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:84, EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2019:60, and EDPBI:EE:OSS:D:2019:55.

44

EDPB Annual Report 2022an incorrect task allocation may delay an appropriate 
response.23

In addition, the technical solutions implemented must 
be effective and designed with the different types of 
data subject in mind. For example, it is inappropriate 
to use an unsubscribe link at the bottom of direct 
marketing  emails  referring  to  a  specific  customer 
account  page,  since  prospects  who  do  not  have  a 
customer account cannot unsubscribe via this link. 
Here,  a  link  that  directly  unsubscribes  the  user  is 
much more effective than referring to the customer 
account.24 

Although setting up specific procedures for exercising 
the right to object is desirable, it is worth noting that 
this should not limit data subjects’ possibilities to send 
requests to the controller in other ways. However, 
informal requests, such as through a tweet on Twitter, 
can  legitimately  be  disregarded  by  the  controller 
when other more formal channels, such as email, are 
available  [EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:276].  Establishing 
specific and appropriate procedures that data subjects 
can use for their requests helps handle them carefully, 
whereas leaving room for the initiative may lead to 
difficulties, such as when data subjects’ requests are 
sent using a different email address than the one used 
to create the personal account.25  

Finally,  to  ensure  effective  regulatory  compliance, 
accountability plays a crucial role in terms of record-
keeping of the objection requests and their outcome.26 
A data controller is responsible for mistakes of its 
employees in dealing with data subjects’ requests, 
and  the  employee’s  fault  is  irrelevant  in  assessing 
compliance with the GDPR and proving accountability 
in the cases examined [EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:184].

6.1.3.2. 

CASE DIGEST OF THE RIGHT TO 
ERASURE

6.1.3.2.1.  THE RIGHT TO ERASURE IN CASE 

LAW UNDER ART. 60 GDPR

Despite the significant development of the right to 
be forgotten in the online context after the Google 
Spain case,27 very few decisions have been adopted 
over  the  years  by  SAs  on  this  topic  under  Art.  60 
GDPR.28  The  large  majority  of  the  cases  deal  with 
requests for: (i) erasure as a result of objecting to 
the processing of data for marketing purposes [e.g., 
EDPBI:CZ:OSS:D:2021:312],29  including  unsolicited 
emails  [e.g.,  EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2022:314],  and  (ii) 
erasure of accounts/profiles relating to services no 
longer used.30  

As  the  cases  examined  largely  concern  fairly  basic 
situations, at least from the point of view of compliance 
with  Art.  17  GDPR,  the  main  considerations  are: 
(i)  bottlenecks  and  shortcomings  in  the  internal 

23  See EDPBI:UK:OSS:D:2019:31 in a case where the customer care officer had forwarded the data subject’s request to the wrong department.

24  See e.g. EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:84.

25  See also EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2019:60 and Section III.2 on the right to erasure.

26  See also EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2019:57; EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2019:58.

27  CJEU, case C 131/12, Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v Agencia Española de Protección de Datos (AEPD), Mario Costeja González, available at 

https://curia.europa.eu.

28  This is probably due to the fact that many of them are handled as local cases under Art. 56(2) GDPR. See the Internal EDPB Document 1/2019 

on handling cases with only local impacts under Art. 56(2) GDPR, Example 11, page 10.

29  See also EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2018:9 and Section II.1.

30  See e.g. EDPBI:DESL:OSS:D:2019:11.

45

EDPB Annual Report 2022event of reasonable doubt as to the identity of a data 
subject, a specific assessment is required to determine 
whether a reasonable doubt exists.33  

Additional information for the purposes of Art. 12(6) 
GDPR should therefore be justified on a case-by-case 
basis. Requiring a copy of a national ID card by default 
is  not  acceptable.34  The  undue  request  of  identity 
documents as a condition for the exercise of the right 
to erasure violates the principle of data minimisation 
pursuant to Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR. Failure to comply with 
such  a  request  cannot  therefore  justify  delaying 
the  erasure  of  the  data  and,  as  the  data  subject’s 
personal data could have been deleted at the time 
of the request, the continued processing of personal 
information  after  receipt  of  the  erasure  request 
constitutes an infringement of Art. 6(1) GDPR.35

A  common  argument  used  to  justify  the  need  to 
provide an official identity document relates to the 
problem raised by sending the erasure request via 
an  email  address  other  than  the  one  used  at  the 
registration stage. Although in such cases the identity 
of the data subject may be uncertain on the basis of 
the sole email address, other solutions more in line 
with the minimisation principle are available.  It would, 
for example, be disproportionate to require a copy 
of an identity document in the event where the data 

complaints handling procedure, and (ii) the presence 
of an overriding legitimate interest or other conditions 
justifying  the  processing  despite  the  request  for 
erasure. In view of the large number of requests they 
receive, data controllers usually put in place partially 
or fully automated procedures to deal with them.  

As for the right to erasure, complaint procedures can 
be divided into two main steps: the exercise of the 
right based on the data subject’s request (see para 
6.1.3.2.2.) and the complaints handling procedure (see 
para 6.1.3.2.3.). As a result, the issues related to these 
two phases are different, focusing more on the correct 
identification  of  the  data  subject  as  far  as  erasure 
requests are concerned, and more on the classification 
of requests and internal organisation as regards the 
complaint handling phase.

6.1.3.2.2.  EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO 

ERASURE

As in cases relating to the right to erasure, the data 
controller  must  facilitate  the  exercise  of  the  data 
subject’s  right31  without  creating  cumbersome 
procedures. In this regard, critical issues concern the 
identification  of  the  data  subject  and  the  proof  of 
identification.32 Although Art. 12(6) GDPR allows the 
data controller to ask for additional information in 

31  Art. 12(2) GDPR.

32  See e.g. EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2019:69.

33  See also Recital 64 GDPR and Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on the right to “data portability” (wp242rev.01), available at https://ec.eu-
ropa.eu/newsroom/article29/items/611233/en, accessed 10.10.2022, 13, and EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:3 (the online nature of the customer 
relationship cannot in itself imply such a reasonable doubt and be a sufficient reason to require a proof of identity; the latter must be justified 
by specific circumstances, such as suspicion of identity theft or account piracy). These guidelines were endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018.

34  See also EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:3 (the practice of requiring individuals to “systematically provide a copy of an identity document for exercising 
their rights [...] does not, in view of its systematic nature, comply with the text [of the applicable law]”) and  EDPBI:IE:OSS:D:2020:166 (in a 
case where the standard procedure of the data controller was to ask for the submission of a copy of a national identity card for all erasure 
requests, the LSAs had made it clear that “the request for a copy of a national identity card was not made on foot of any specific doubt as 
to the complainant’s identity, but rather was a result of the policy that was in place in Groupon at the time”) and EDPB, Guidelines 01/2022 
on data subject rights - Right of access, Version 1.0, Adopted - version for public consultation, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/documents/public-consultations/2022/guidelines-012022-data-subject-rights-right_en, accessed 20.11.2022, 23-27.

35  See EDPBI:IE:OSS:D:2020:166.

46

EDPB Annual Report 2022controller to delete data regardless of the request41 
[EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:229].

6.1.3.2.3.  THE COMPLAINTS HANDLING 

PROCEDURE 

An effective exercise of the right to erasure requires 
adequate management of the internal processes. This 
is especially true when requests are on a large scale, 
as in the case of erasure based on objections to data 
processing for marketing purposes. In this context, 
different  types  of  shortcomings  may  occur  that 
jeopardise the effective exercise of the data subject’s 
right. 

The main shortcomings detected by the LSAs can be 
classified under two categories, namely procedural 
shortcomings and human errors, where the former 
are more impactful in terms of GDPR compliance as 
they affect all requests handled, while the latter are 
case specific.  

Among  the  procedural  shortcomings,  the  most 
serious concerned the complete absence of a specific 
procedure to deal with erasure requests,42 while the 
most frequent case concerns delays in the erasure 

subject made their request within an area where they 
are already authenticated.36 Conversely, it is possible, 
for example, to provide a unique identifier to users at 
the end of the registration process,37 to inform users 
that only requests from an email address linked to 
their profile  will  be  taken  into  account, to provide 
a password hotline in order to change the account 
login details,38 to use other means of identification, 
such as via an online call,39 or to identify the claimant 
by  asking  for  additional  information  related  to 
the  service  (e.g.  current  and  previous  nicknames, 
date  of  account  registration,  secret  questions) 
[EDPBI:EE:OSS:D:2021:294]. 

In the case of robot-generated requests, the measures 
taken by data controllers to cope with the increased 
workload generated by these types of requests, cannot 
limit the exercise of the subject’s rights by adopting 
semi-automated  procedures  for  sending  erasure 
requests that lead to disregarding any requests that do 
not follow the instructions.40 

Furthermore, in the cases of Art. 17(1) GDPR, including 
ones  in  which  the  data  subject  withdraws  consent 
(Art. 17(1)(b) GDPR) or objects to processing under 
Art.  17(1)(c)  GDPR,  a  specific  request  of  erasure 
from  the  data  subject  is  not  necessary,  as  there 
is  an  independent  obligation  arising  for  the  data

36  See EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2019:3.

37  See EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2019:69.

38  See also EDPBI:LU:OSS:D:2019:14 and EDPBI:LU:OSS:D:2020:94.

39  See also EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2019:26.

40  See EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2020:151.

41  See EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:229 as well as the EDPB Opinion 39/2021 on whether Art. 58(2)(g) GDPR could serve as a legal basis for a su-
pervisory authority to order ex officio the erasure of personal data, in a situation where such request was not submitted by the data subject, 
paragraph 22 (“Article 17 GDPR provides for both (i) an independent right for data subjects and (ii) an independent obligation for the control-
ler. In this regard, Article 17 GDPR does not require the data subject to take any specific action, it merely outlines that the data subject “has 
the right to obtain” erasure and the data controller “has the obligation to erase” if one of cases set forth in Article 17(1) GDPR applies”) and 
paragraph 23 (“some cases set forth in Article 17(1) GDPR clearly refer to scenarios that the controllers must detect as part of their obligation 
for erasure, independently of whether or not the data subjects are aware of these cases”).

42  See also e.g. EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2019:60.

47

EDPB Annual Report 2022process due to poor internal organisation43 or technical 
malfunction,  which  is  why,  for  example,  the  data 
controller must adopt appropriate technical solutions 
not to leave an old contact email address unmonitored 
(e.g., automatic reply informing about the new contact 
email  address  or  an  automatic  re-directing  to  the 
correct email)  [EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2021:212].44

The relationship between data controller and data 
processor, if not properly managed, may also lead to 
lack of coordination/instructions in the handling of 
requests, with the result that the effective exercise of 
the right to erasure may be impaired.45 

In  some  limited  cases,  inadequate  technological 
solutions  are  the  main  reason  for  the  failure  to 
fully  meet  the  data  subject’s  requests,  such  as 
when  documents  sent  by  users  via  email  to  the 
data  controller  have  been  stored  by  generating 
URL  links  making  their  subsequent  deletion  more 
difficult [EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:202, in a case where 
customers’ driving licenses were accessible via any 
browser without required authentication by entering 
a  URL  that  linked  to  the  software  used  for  data 
storage].46 

Finally, in several cases, the data controller complied 
with the data subject’s request for erasure but did 
not  inform  the  data  subject  of  the  erasure  (Art.l 
12(3)  GDPR)  [EDPBI:LU:OSS:D:2021:240]47  or  this 
information was provided with delay.48  

With regard to the controller’s obligation to inform the 
data subject about the action taken on the requests 
received (Art. 12(3) GDPR), the case law considered 
has also clarified that, when the controller notifies the 
data subject that the request has been granted, the 
erasure has been initiated and how long it will take 
at most, no confirmation that the erasure had been 
carried out is required. This is unless the data subject 
requests otherwise, or it is indicated that the data 
subject wishes to be notified that the erasure has been 
carried out or that the erasure is not carried out within 
the specified time limit [EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:303]. 

As regards human errors, they may concern requests 
inadvertently  not  processed  or  not  forwarded  to  the 
competent  department  [EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2020:130; 
EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2021:267],  as  well  as  occasional 
misclassification  of  the  data  subject’s  requests 
[EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:184; EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:195] 
or misrepresentation of the data subject’s position.49  

43  See also EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2018:10 in a case where the erasure request was not handled in a timely manner as there were two separate 
databases, managed by the customer care and the in-house shop management, and the account was deactivated on the former, but the 
request was not forwarded to the shop management.

44  See also EDPBI:CZ:OSS:D:2021:312; EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:105.

45  See also e.g. EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2021:305 in a case of an oral request for erasure, where the LSA emphasised that both the data controller and 
the provider must facilitate the exercise of the right of erasure by properly training their employees and, as far as the controller is concerned, 
adopting clear instructions on the handling of the erasure requests; and EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:374 in a case where the data processor 
treated a data subject’s request internally instead of forwarding it to the controller, as required by the nature of the service and task alloca-
tion.

46  See also EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:193 where the data subject’s request for erasure was addressed by assigning personal information a special 

status making then unusable by the data subject, but without erasing them from the database.

47  See also EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2020:156, see also EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2020:84.

48  See also EDPBI:HU:OSS:D:2020:118.

49  See also EDPBI:PL:OSS:D:2020:194, in a case of wrongful compliance with the data subject’s request for erasure due to lack of the informa-

tion on one of the several active processing operations concerning the data subject.

48

EDPB Annual Report 2022In addition, a combination of procedural and human 
errors is likely to occur in the case of erasure requests 
handled manually and not via digital communications 
and automated procedures.50

cannot be accepted due to the presence of overriding 
legitimate grounds for the processing (Art. 17(1)(c) 
GDPR), or where the right to erasure is not granted 
when processing is necessary under Art. 17(3) GDPR. 

Based on the case law of the LSAs and in the light of 
the EDPB guidelines,51 data controllers are required to 
ensure the effectiveness of all data subjects’ requests 
concerning  the  exercise  the  right  of  erasure,  and 
personal data must be systematically erased when 
requested.  

Against  this  background,  the  automation  of  the 
complaint process can reduce both the procedural 
and  human  errors,  by  introducing  user-friendly 
interfaces that support data subjects in formulating 
and providing better evidence of their requests, and 
by  setting  the  decision-making  process  regarding 
erasure so as to be aligned with the tasks assigned 
under the GDPR to those handling personal data. This 
ensures more effective compliance with both the data 
subjects’ requests and the GDPR, without prejudice to 
the human decision on each case, which remains in the 
hands of the persons tasked by the controller to make 
the final decision. In the most basic cases, such as 
erasure resulting from contract/service termination, 
full automation may be considered. 

6.1.3.2.4.  OVERRIDING LEGITIMATE 

INTEREST AND OTHER CONDITIONS 
JUSTIFYING DATA PROCESSING 
DESPITE A REQUEST FOR ERASURE

More  complicated  issues,  entailing  a  case-by-case 
assessment and the involvement of a human decision-
maker, arise in cases where the request for erasure 

 As to the first category of cases, they mostly deal with 
the prevalence of data controllers’ legitimate interest 
[e.g.  EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:196  where  the  data 
subject’s right to the erasure of banking information 
did not override the legitimate interest of the data 
controller in payment and fraud prevention, in a case 
involving  the  use  of  unique  payment  instrument 
identifiers to counter the abuse of free trial online 
services offered by a media company]. In this regard, 
it is worth noting that the decisions examined do not 
include cases of the exercise of right to be forgotten in 
the context of the activity of search engines, which are 
instead common in national and regional decisions of 
individual Supervisory Authorities.  

Regarding the second category, i.e. cases where the 
right  to  erasure  is  not  granted,  the  LSA  decisions 
mainly  concern  obligations  under  national  laws 
setting  mandatory  data  retention  periods  [e.g., 
EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2021:210  data  retention  required 
by  the  law  with  regard  to  customers’  complaints 
and purchases].52 Data controllers must inform data 
subjects about the legal grounds for retaining their 
data, which justifies the rejection of any erasure request 
[EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2022:340,  regarding  anti-money 
laundering  obligations;  EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2021:272, 
concerning various obligations under banking laws]. 
In these cases, specific information on the source of 
the legal obligations must also be provided to the data 
subject at the time of the request for erasure (Article 
12.1) [EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2021:272]. 

50  EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:178 in a case where the data subject was not informed about the results of the erasure request, as the request was 
handled manually, because it was received by mail, whereas the company used to handle requests through an automated digital system 
where notifications about measures taken were sent automatically.

51  See Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of the Regu-
lation 2016/679, WP 253, available at https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/items/611237/en, accessed 10.10.2022, 12; “[…] failure to 
read and abide by existing policies, human error, failure to check for personal data in information published, failure to apply technical updates 
in a timely manner, failure to adopt policies (rather than simply failure to apply them) may be indicative of negligence”.

52  See also CJEU, case C-398/15, Camera di Commercio,Industria, Artigianato e Agricoltura di Lecce v Salvatore Manni.

49

EDPB Annual Report 2022However, legal obligations must be interpreted in line 
with data protection principles and not abused to 
justify limitations to the rights of the data subject. In 
this sense, for example, the consumer’s right to claim 
compensation for a defective product for two years 
after the delivery of the goods to the purchaser cannot 
justify a refusal to erase a customer’s profile because 
of the use of an online form on the customer’s page 
to exercise the right to complain, as it is possible to 
complain about a product in a different way with no 
need to maintain an active profile.53 

Legal obligations and the defence of legal claims (Art. 
17(3)(e) GDPR) related to consumer protection may 
also justify the retention of personal data processed 
in  connection  with  orders  during  the  time  when 
purchasers may make their claims, or a competent 
supervisory  body  may  carry  out  an  inspection 
[EDPBI:CZ:OSS:D:2021:312]. 

Nonetheless,  it  is  worth  emphasising  that,  while 
under  certain  circumstances  some  personal  data 
may be kept in intermediate storage in the presence 
of an erasure request, those that are not necessary 
in  the  context  of  fulfilment  of  such  obligations  or 
purposes under Art. 17 GDPR must be deleted after 
the exercise of this right [EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:279; 
EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:310].

6.1.3.3. 

CONCLUDING REMARKS 

Due  to  the  nature  of  the  cases  decided,  most  of 
the  complaints  relating  to  Arts.  17  and  21  GDPR 
concern minor violations and are often characterised 
by  a  collaborative  approach  on  the  part  of  the 
data  controller,  with  spontaneous  remediation  of 
the  infringement,  including  the  adoption  of  new 
procedures fully compliant with the GDPR.  

For this reason, discontinuation of data processing 
and  erasure  of  personal  data  as  a  result  of  LSA 

investigations  and  active  cooperation  by  data 
controllers  make  reprimands  the  main  outcome 
in  the  case  law  examined.  It  is  worth  noting  that, 
in  presence  of  minor  violations,  the  motivation 
of  the  remedy  adopted  in  the  final  decision  is 
sometimes quite brief, by using general statements 
(see e.g., EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:184 which refers 
to  “the  specific  circumstances  of  the  case  under 
investigation”). 

Although  in  some  cases  the  LSAs  have  imposed 
specific sanctions on data controllers, this is usually 
due to a large number of infringements of the GDPR, 
with a minor role played by violations of Arts. 17 and 
21 GDPR. This also makes it difficult to identify in the 
Register a set of notable case studies focusing on these 
specific legal grounds. 

Finally,  it  is  worth  noting  that  even  where  the 
violations  of  Art.  17  GDPR  are  more  serious,  the 
LSAs may consider refraining from imposing a fine in 
consideration  of  the  specific  circumstances  of  the 
case  [e.g.  EDPBI:DEBW:OSS:D:2021:203  where  the 
LSA took the following elements into account: “First 
of all, it must be seen that [the data controller] is a 
non-profit and thus not commercially active company 
which, apart from the managing sole shareholder, has 
no employees and is dependent on donations for its 
non-profit activities, which in 2020 amounted to only 
EUR 10,603.00 up to the time of the statement of 24 
November 2020. In addition, did not act intentionally, 
but on the contrary, due to a lack of technical expertise, 
was convinced that the signature list had already been 
deleted and had thus complied with the complainant’s 
request for erasure”.   

6.1.4.  MUTUAL ASSISTANCE

The mutual assistance procedure allows SAs to ask 
for information from other SAs or to request other 
measures for effective cooperation, such as requests 

53  See also EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2020:171 and EDPBI:DK:OSS:D:2021:210 where it was deemed  unnecessary to keep the customer account active 
for at least two years after the purchase for the exercise the right to complain under the customer protection law, as this right can be exer-
cised by other means such as emails or telephone.

50

EDPB Annual Report 2022to carry out prior authorisations and consultations, 
inspections  and  investigations.  Mutual  assistance 
can be used for cross-border cases subject to the OSS 
procedure, either as part of the preliminary phase, 
to gather the necessary information before drafting 
a decision, or for national cases with a cross-border 
component.  

The IMI enables the use of either informal mutual 
assistance  without  any  legal  deadline  (voluntary 
mutual  assistance)  or  the  use  of  formal  mutual 
assistance. In the latter case, according to the GDPR, 
the SA from which information has been requested 
has a legal deadline of one month to reply.  

Between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2022, SAs 
initiated 248  formal mutual assistance procedures 
and 2924  voluntary mutual assistance procedures. 

6.1.5.  JOINT OPERATIONS

The GDPR allows SAs to carry out joint investigations 
and joint enforcement measures. Similar to the Mutual 
Assistance procedure, SAs can use joint operations in 
the context of cross-border cases subject to the OSS 
procedure, or for national cases with a cross-border 
component.  

In 2022, SAs did not carry out any joint operation.

6.2.  NATIONAL CASES

SAs  have  different  investigative,  advisory  and 
corrective  measures  at  their  disposal  to  ensure 
entities within their countries apply data protection 
law correctly and consistently. Corrective measures 
include the following: 

• 

Issuing  warnings  to  a  controller  or  processor 
where  its  intended  processing  operations  are 
likely to infringe the GDPR; 

• 

Issuing  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  processor 
where processing operations have infringed the 
GDPR; 

•  Ordering  the  controller  or  processor  to  comply 
with  a  data  subject’s  request  or  to  bring 
processing operations into compliance with the 
GDPR; 

• 

Imposing processing limitations, bans or fines.

6.2.1.  SOME RELEVANT NATIONAL 

CASES WITH EXERCISE OF 
CORRECTIVE POWERS54

SAs play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ data 
protection  rights.  They  can  do  this  by  exercising 
corrective  powers.  The  EDPB  website  includes  a 
selection of SA supervisory actions. This section of 
the Annual Report contains a non-exhaustive list of 
certain national enforcement actions in different EEA 
countries  carried  out  outside  the  OSS  cooperation 
mechanism. 

The cases examined in this section highlighted a lack 
of  proper  technical  and  organisational  measures 
for processing personal data securely, which led to 
data breaches. Several other cases revolved around 
data  processing  without  a  data  subject’s  consent. 
Some significant incidents also involved the unlawful 
processing of special categories of personal data, such 
as health data. Moreover, numerous cases involved 
data subjects who could not effectively exercise their 
rights, such as the right of access, the right to erasure 
and the right to object to data processing. Finally, a 
great number of cases also included the controller’s 
failure  to  notify  the  data  subjects  of  the  occurred 
or the potential risk of data breaches. Entities from 
both the private and public sectors were fined by the 
national SA.

54  This selection of enforcement actions only includes those that were sent to the EDPB by the SAs following a request to submit national en-

forcement news. Further cases can be found on https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news_en.

51

EDPB Annual Report 20226.2.1.1. 

BELGIUM

In 2022, the Belgian SA investigated several complaints 
and discovered violations by data controllers on issues 
related  to,  among  others,  security  of  processing, 
sensitive  data,  consent,  transparency,  cookies, 
thermal cameras and COVID-19.  

In  April,  there  were  two  cases  worth  highlighting. 
In the first one, the Belgian SA established that the 
controllers,  Brussels  Airport  and  Ambuce  Rescue 
team,  did  not  have  a  valid  legal  basis  under  Arts. 
6(1)  and  9(2)  GDPR  for  carrying  out  temperature 
checks  on  passengers  and  for  the  processing  of 
special categories of personal data (health data) in 
the  context  of  the  COVID-19  crisis.  Moreover,  one 
of the controllers infringed Arts. 12 to 14 GDPR due 
to a lack of transparency vis-à-vis the data subjects. 
Administrative fines of respectively EUR 200,000 and 
EUR 20,000 were imposed by the Litigation Chamber 
on the controllers. Later, the Market Court of Brussels 
(Court of Appeal) reduced the fine imposed by the 
Belgian  SA  on  Brussels  Airport  to  EUR  50,000  and 
cancelled the fine imposed on Ambuce Rescue Team. 

The second case concerned the use of thermal cameras 
at Brussels South Charleroi Airport to check, in the 
context of COVID-19, whether the passengers had a 
body temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or above. In 
this regard, the Belgium Litigation Chamber held that 
the airport lacked a valid legal basis for processing data 
related to the temperature of travellers, particularly 
considering it processed data pertaining to a special 
category under the GDPR (health data). Additionally, 
the  Belgian  SA  observed  shortcomings  in  terms  of 
purpose limitation, transparency and the information 
provided to travellers, as well as in the quality of the 
Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and the 
record of processing activities. As a result, the airport 
was  issued  a  EUR  100,000  fine,  which  was  later 
reduced by the Court of Appeal to EUR 25,000. 

On  4  May  2022,  a  complaint  was  filed  against  the 
NMBS/SNCB  in  relation  to  the  company’s  Hello 
Belgium Railpass, which was issued free of charge 
to  Belgian  residents  during  the  COVID-19  crisis.  It 
was revealed by a Twitter user that the newsletter 
providing  information  on  the  Railpass  did  not 
contain  a  possibility  to  unsubscribe.  The  Belgian 
SA argued that the Railpass could not be classified 
as a “communication from public authorities” or a 
“promotion  at  the  initiative  of  public  authorities” 
and  as  such  had  no  legal  basis  under  Art.  6(1)(e) 
and  (f)  GDPR.  Indeed,  while  the  controller  could 
inform  customers  about  COVID-related  measures, 
it could not promote trips to tourist sites. Moreover, 
the newsletter did not provide an indication of the 
possibility to object which is a right guaranteed in Art. 
21(2) GDPR. Thereby, the Litigation Chamber of the 
Belgian SA decided to impose a fine of EUR 10,000 on 
the NMBS/SNCB. 

Later in May, two cases were addressed by the Belgian 
SA. The first case related to a complaint filed against 
the  websites  sos-services.be  and  sos-avocats.com. 
According to the plaintiff, these websites, operated 
by  the  same  controller,  listed  lawyers  and  other 
professionals without valid legal basis and without the 
lawyers being informed about the processing of their 
personal data. Additionally, the plaintiff argued that 
the information was erroneous and that testimonies 
were  falsely  attributed  to  the  listed  lawyers.  In 
addition, a lack of compliance with the GDPR of the 
privacy and cookie policy on the two websites was also 
raised. The Belgian SA imposed a fine of EUR 5,000 
on the controller and ordered that the processing of 
personal data related to the lawyers be stopped and 
the data be deleted. It also ordered the controller to 
submit within three months a revised and compliant 
cookie and privacy policy to the Belgian SA’s Litigation 
Chamber. 

In the second case, a press website named the Roularta 
group  was  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  50,000  by  the 

52

EDPB Annual Report 2022Belgian SA’s Litigation Chamber for failure to meet the 
necessary conditions for valid consent, in the context 
of the processing of personal data on its websites. It 
was  established  that  several  cookies  were  placed 
by these websites on the user’s device even before 
the user had given his consent and that the group 
had failed to comply with the obligation to provide 
information to users in a transparent, understandable 
and easily accessible form. Additionally, the consent 
boxes for the installation of cookies by third-party 
partners were pre-ticked, while consent must be the 
result of an active action. 

As a result of a thematic inquiry into the installation 
of cookies by the most popular Belgian press websites, 
a second decision was made against another Belgian 
press website, “the Rossel group”, on 16 June 2022. 
Shortcomings were found by the Belgian SA in terms 
of the consent required for the placement of non-
essential  cookies,  namely:  prior  consent,  absence 
of  consent  for  audience  measurement  and  social 
network  cookies,  lack  of  information  to  the  users, 
further  browsing  as  well  as  pre-checked  consent 
boxes. The Rossel group was fined EUR 50,000 and 
ordered to bring the processing of personal data in line 
with the provisions of the GDPR. 

In  July,  the  disclosure  by  the  Belgian  public 
administration of information regarding the health 
status of their employee, hereby the complainant, 
was  deemed  by  the  Belgian  SA  as  not  compatible 
with  the  principle  of  data  minimisation.  Indeed, 
according to Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR only certain employees, 
exercising specific functions are entitled to receive 
this information. However, in this case, the health 
status  of  the  complainant  was  disclosed  via  the 
minutes  of  the  staff  meeting,  thereby  pursuing  an 
objective distinct from the original purpose, which 
was for the administration to receive and process this 
information in its capacity as an employer. In order to 
prevent similar incidents from happening again, the 
Litigation Chamber reprimanded the Belgian public 

administration and urged it to raise awareness among 
its staff members. 

Finally, in August, the Belgian SA dealt with a case 
concerning security of processing. A company that 
developed a digital administration platform failed to 
implement the necessary security measures. Indeed, 
it did not consider the risks that are presented by 
processing  data,  such  as  accidental  or  unlawful 
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure 
of, or access to personal data transmitted, stored or 
otherwise processed. As a result, the controller was 
issued a fine of EUR 2,500.

6.2.1.2. 

BULGARIA

The Bulgarian SA, the Commission for Personal Data 
Protection (CPDP), dealt with many cases in 2022. 
This section covers four noteworthy decisions related 
to the following topics: security of processing, illegal 
processing and dissemination, consent, public interest 
and sensitive data. 

In October, a notification was received by the CPDP 
about  a  violation  of  personal  data  security  due  to 
non-functioning software applications at “Bulgarian 
Post” EAD. As a result of a subsequent inspection, it 
was revealed that when carrying out its activities as 
a personal data controller, the “Bulgarian Post” EAD 
did not apply sufficient technical and organisational 
measures.  As  a  result  of  which,  unauthorised 
disclosure of individuals’ personal data was gained 
to the maintained information databases. Due to the 
unauthorised access of data by hackers, the ability 
to guarantee permanent confidentiality, availability, 
integrity and sustainability of processing systems and 
services was violated, as well as the ability to promptly 
restore access to the personal data. A sanction in the 
amount of BGN 700,000 (approximately EUR 358,098) 
was therefore imposed by the CPDP on the “Bulgarian 
Post” EAD for infringing Art. 32(1)(b)(c) and (d) GDPR, 
as well as Art. 32(2) GDPR, in connection with Art. 5(1)
(f) GDPR.  

53

EDPB Annual Report 2022Two  other  cases  of  interest  were  dealt  with  in 
December 2022. The first one concerned a complaint 
filed against a credit institution (bank), with allegations 
of unlawful processing of the complainant’s personal 
data for direct marketing purposes. The CPDP argued 
that the email sent to the complainant, after he had 
terminated his relationship with the bank, regarding 
an offer for a “fully digital” consumer loan was not 
appropriate. Indeed, the bank was unable to guarantee 
and prove that the processing of the complainant’s 
personal data for marketing purposes was carried out 
in accordance with the GDPR, which is the obligation 
of the controller under Art. 24 GDPR. The bank was 
consequently  reprimanded  by  the  CPDP  and  took 
active steps to ensure that the status of customers 
who have terminated their relations with the bank, 
will be marked from “active to “inactive” immediately 
after closing an account with the company. 

A complaint was also filed in December by a Member 
of the Bulgarian Parliament with allegations of illegal 
dissemination on national media of data related to his 
health, specifically his vaccination status in the context 
of COVID-19. While the complainant disputed that his 
vaccination status was aired without his consent, the 
CPDP held that the processing of his personal data 
was lawful. Indeed, the CPDP based its decision on the 
argument that the person’s consent is not an element 
of  the  lawfulness  of  personal  data  processing  for 
journalistic purposes. Furthermore, the CPDP argued 
that the processing was carried out for the fulfilment 
of freedom of expression and the right to information 
in a democratic community. 

Lastly, an ongoing case regarding the processing of 
personal  data  of  deceased  individuals  by  political 
parties during the national representative elections 
of October 2022, was opened by the CPDP in August 
2022. For the time being, the CPDP established that 
eight political entities processed without a legal basis 
and in violation of the public interest, the data of less 
than ten deceased persons in their respective voter 

lists. It remains to be seen how the CPDP will handle 
these administrative violations in its final decision. 

6.2.1.3. 

CYPRUS

The Cyprus SA handled several cases in 2022 involving, 
amongst others: a journalistic article for a politically 
exposed person, data breach of a school’s emailing 
tool,  data  breach  notification  by  a  bank  and  the 
incorrect delivery of an application form. 

The first case of interest involved a failure to comply 
with  the  principles  of  lawfulness,  fairness  and 
transparency, data minimisation and the principle of 
accuracy (Arts. 5(1)(a), (c) and (d) GDPR). The Cyprus 
SA issued an administrative fine of EUR 10,000 to the 
controller in February for having published an article 
containing inaccurate details about the complainant’s 
financial status, simply to satisfy the public’s curiosity. 
The complainant was ordered to remove the relevant 
article  from  the  web  pages  he  controlled  within  a 
week. 

In March, the Cyprus SA imposed two fines, one of 
EUR 5,000 and the other amounting to EUR 4,000, 
on  two  separate  entities.  The  case  pertained  to 
the unauthorised usage of a school’s email tool by 
the president of a teacher’s trade union (TU). The 
president  sent  an  email  to  all  the  parents  of  the 
students, using their email addresses, for trade union 
purposes. In doing so, the president of the TU acted 
as a separate controller and therefore the TU was 
fined for his actions. The second fine was imposed 
on the school for lack of appropriate technical and 
organisational measures to prevent the processing of 
email addresses by teachers, for purposes other than 
schooling. 

Another fine was issued by the Cyprus SA in July 2022 
for the infringement of the principle of integrity and 
confidentiality (Art. 5(1)(f) GDPR) as well as the lack 
of technical and organisational measures on behalf 
of  the  controller  (Arts.  24(1)  and  32  GDPR).  The 

54

EDPB Annual Report 2022controller in this case was a bank that was involved in 
three separate data breaches and as a result, was fined 
EUR 17,000. In the first breach, a letter addressed to 
a bank’s customer was sent to another company, and 
in the second, 11,673 electronic files belonging to 
bank customers were accidentally sent to the same 
organisation. The third incident involved sending the 
company one electronic file which contained notice 
letters the bank had sent to its customers. In total, 
8,500 data subjects were affected by these incidents.  

The last case concerned the same infringements as the 
case mentioned beforehand. Indeed, in September 
2022, the Electricity Authority of Cyprus (CEA) was 
fined  EUR  5,000  by  the  Cyprus  SA  for  unlawfully 
disclosing personal data concerning the complainant 
to  a  third  party.  More  specifically,  an  application 
form  for  installing  a  power  line,  that  should  have 
been delivered to the complainant for signature, was 
delivered instead to his neighbour, by a CEA employee. 
The  application  form  contained  personal  data  of 
the complainant and it was established that the CEA 
employee had untruthfully signed the form that he 
had personally delivered to the complainant.

6.2.1.4. 

CZECH REPUBLIC

In 2022, the Czech SA fined a controller CZK 70,000 
(EUR 2,800) for processing personal data without legal 
ground. The SA stated that the controller misled data 
subjects  freshly  registered  with  the  Trade  Register 
by  offering  them  entry  into  the  private  and  paid 
“Registry of Commerce and Trade”, which they were 
ultimately prompted to pay for. As a result thereof, the 
controller processed the name, surname, business 
address, and company identification number of data 
subjects retrieved from the Trade Register. Although 
the controller processed the data which was publicly 
accessible in the Trade Register, the Czech SA ruled 
that it was not permissible to process such data freely 
without any legal basis.

6.2.1.5. 

DENMARK

In  most  EEA  jurisdictions,  SAs  have  the  power  to 
issue administrative fines themselves. In Denmark, 
however, this is not the case. Indeed, data protection 
law infringements are first looked into by the Danish 
SA before being reported to the police. After the police 
has conducted an investigation to determine whether 
charges should be filed, the court then decides on any 
possible fines. 

In January, the Danish SA expressed serious criticism 
against  controller  Den  Blå  Avis  for  the  processing 
of personal data of individuals visiting its website. 
Particularly, it was established that the controller’s 
consent  mechanism  on  its  website  did  not  meet 
the legal criteria for a valid consent. Moreover, the 
processing,  which  was  conducted  for  analytical 
and  statistical  purposes,  did  not  respect  the  core 
principles of the GDPR such as lawfulness, fairness and 
transparency. 

In March, the Danish Municipality was reprimanded 
for revealing by email confidential health information 
about one of its employees. Indeed, the complainant’s 
colleagues were notified by the municipality that the 
woman could no longer conduct challenging physical 
tasks, due to her ongoing fertility treatment. In its 
decision to reprimand the municipality, the Danish SA 
emphasized a great deal on the sensitive nature of the 
data which had been shared with the group of people.   

In April, the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority 
was  seriously  reprimanded  by  the  Danish  SA  for 
violating the requirement of adequate security when 
processing  data  (Art.  32(1)  GDPR).  The  controller 
mistakenly supplied information regarding whistle-
blowers to a journalist in connection with a request for 
document access. Indeed, the personal data contained 
in the file was not successfully erased by the controller, 
rendering it possible for the journalist to access it. In 
this case, the Danish SA emphasised that in situations 
where the data originates from a system of whistle-

55

EDPB Annual Report 2022blowers, the risk of violating the rights of data subjects 
is greater. 

In May, the Danish SA issued a decision in regard to a 
case concerning the use of an AI-profiling tool “Asta” 
by municipal authorities. The tool was used by the 
authorities to determine the length of the contact 
process between a newly unemployed person and the 
unemployment centre. However, this was estimated 
by  processing  data  from  unemployed  persons 
and comparing it to the value of created (generic) 
individuals. The Danish SA came to the conclusion 
that  an  unemployed  individual’s  consent  does  not 
constitute  a  legal  basis  for  the  processing  of  his 
personal data. It particularly highlighted that in the 
context at hand, consent cannot be considered to have 
been given freely. 

In June, a request was made by a data subject for 
access to documents related to a pending court case. 
However,  the  complainant  did  not  specify  which 
documents  were  to  be  reviewed  by  the  controller 
to identify personal data related to him. In its final 
decision, the Danish SA argued that this request did 
not entail an obligation for the controller to search 
for and review the documents in order to identify and 
provide information about the data subject. 

In October, an issue related to consent was brought 
to the attention of the Danish SA. The case concerned 
the processing of personal data of visitors to a Danish 
website. In its decision, the Danish SA considered that 
the controller of the website, JP/Politiken, failed to 
provide information to the visitors about the purposes 
of data processing. Hence, it could not be agreed that 
the visitors had given informed consent. Additionally, 
the Danish SA argued that the “accept all” option of 
the consent mechanism set in place by the controller 
conflicted with the principle of lawfulness, fairness and 
transparency. As a result, the Danish SA reprimanded 
JP/Politiken. 

sexual harassment were dealt with by the Danish SA in 
February, September and November 2022. Regarding 
the lawfulness of processing, the Danish SA found that 
a general legitimate interest exists when investigating 
instances  of  sexual  harassment.  It  thereby  argued 
that the controllers could process the data based on 
several provisions of the GDPR, namely Art. 6(1)(f), 
Art. 6(1)(e) or Art. 9(2)(f). However, due to a lack of 
information provided to the data subjects regarding 
the processing of their personal data, the Danish SA 
issued reprimands to the controllers.

6.2.1.6. 

ESTONIA

Upon conducting, on its own initiative, a monitoring 
operation  of  the  Facebook  groups  that  publish 
personal  data  of  individuals  in  debt,  the  Estonian 
SA  issued  a  decision  in  January  2022  against  the 
controller. The controller, who held the position of 
administrator of the Facebook groups, stated that the 
processing was done for personal purposes. However, 
the Estonian SA argued this not to be true, since the 
groups  were  composed  of  a  number  of  members 
between  4600  and  14,800,  thereby  entailing  that 
the data was disclosed to an unidentified group of 
individuals. Ultimately, the Estonian SA recalled that 
the processing of information related to the financial 
status of individuals would infringe on their rights. 
The controller was issued a fine of EUR 5,000 and was 
requested to stop sharing individuals’ personal data in 
Facebook groups without their explicit consent.  

The same month, the Estonian SA issued a precept with 
a penalty payment of EUR 10,000 on the controller 
Krediidiregister OÜ for each unfulfilled obligation. It 
requested the controller, amongst other obligations, 
to terminate the disclosure of all valid and invalid data 
of natural persons related to a legal identity. Moreover, 
the controller was ordered to verify that third parties 
who received the data had a legitimate interest.  

Several cases related to the processing of personal 
data  of  alleged  victims  and  individuals  accused  of 

On  25  July  2022,  the  Estonian  SA  ordered  the 
controller Ticketer OÜ to (i) align its privacy notice 

56

EDPB Annual Report 2022with the requirements set in the GDPR and (ii) either 
remove the website’s third-party cookies or obtain 
consent from the data subjects before placing the 
cookies. The decision of the Estonian SA resulted from 
a  self-initiated  monitoring  operation  to  assess  the 
way personal data is processed in various ticket seller 
portals. During the operation, it was revealed that the 
controller’s website lacked a privacy notice as well 
as other GDPR requirements, such as a purpose and 
a legal basis for processing. The Estonian SA issued a 
precept with a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 for each 
unfulfilled point.

6.2.1.7. 

FINLAND

In this section, seven cases from the Finnish SA’s work 
related to data protection violations will be presented. 

On the basis of non-compliance with an order issued by 
the Finnish SA, a telemarketing company was awarded 
an administrative fine of EUR 8,300 on 29 April 2022. 
The Finish SA decided that the controller had failed 
to comply with its order to fulfil a customer’s request 
to access the recording of a sales call. Having access 
to the recording would have enabled the customer 
to  identify  whether  the  telemarketing  company’s 
methods for promoting and selling its goods to older 
customers had been legal.  

In response to the eleven cases brought to the SA 
concerning Otavamedia Oy, the Finnish SA adopted 
a  decision  against  the  controller  in  May  2022. 
Complainants criticised the controller for ignoring their 
requests concerning data protection rights. However, 
the  controller  shed  light  on  a  technical  issue  that 
prevented the data protection requests from being 
directed to customer service. Nevertheless, the Finish 
SA noted the controller’s responsibility to ensure the 
functionality of the email inbox, especially as it was 
the main contact channel for data protection matters. 
Furthermore, the SA found that Otavamedia Oy had 
gathered  a  considerable  amount  of  identification 
data (i.e. complainants’ signatures) by imposing the 

use of a printable form for data protection requests. 
Consequently, the controller was ordered to update 
its processes to comply with the requirements for data 
protection and was issued a fine of EUR 85,000.  

On 8 June 2022, the Finish SA ordered three insurance 
companies  to  correct  their  activities  related  to 
the  processing  of  health  information  of  insurance 
applicants. This was ordered to ensure that future 
processing activities would comply with the GDPR. One 
of the insurance companies was notably reprimanded 
by the SA as it requested consent for processing health 
data without properly identifying the purposes behind 
the use of this data. Furthermore, it was revealed 
that the insurance companies were not clear as to 
whether  they  only  limited  their  data  requests  to 
health information deemed necessary for assessing 
the liability of the company. 

Later in July, the Finnish SA issued a reprimand to 
a  bank  for  its  failure  to  enable  their  customers’ 
inquiry into the erasure of their personal data. The 
Ombudsman strongly believed that such data should 
have been erased and if not, the reasons for keeping 
it should have been communicated to the customers. 
The  Finish  SA  also  reprimanded  the  controller  for 
erasing  one  of  the  complainant’s  data  before  the 
customer had been able to access it. It emphasised 
that in cases where a data subject wants to both access 
and delete personal data, then the request to access it 
should be completed first. 

In October, the Legal Register Centre was warned by 
the Finish SA that its planned processing of personal 
data would likely infringe the GDPR. The Finish SA 
based its decision on the fact that the controller was 
unable to reduce the risks inherent to the planned 
processing measures. This included a risk that the data 
would be transferred to non-EU countries’ authorities, 
as a result of their right of access to information.  

In November, the Finish SA issued a reprimand against 
the Tax Administration for the failure to fully consider 

57

EDPB Annual Report 2022the risks involved in processing personal data. Indeed, 
between 2015 and 2021 the controller issued requests 
for  information  regarding  all  cross-border  credit 
transfers, which included data on banks’ customer 
registers.  However,  the  controller  only  limited  the 
transactions to be investigated after having the data in 
its possession, and as a result, infringed the GDPR. 

After having received three complaints from private 
individuals, the Finnish SA opened an investigation 
into the controller Alektum Oy. It was revealed that 
the controller had not only failed to give a reply to the 
individuals’ requests to access their personal data, but 
also purposely delayed the investigation by avoiding 
the Finnish SA. In addition to being reprimanded by 
the  SA  in  December  2022,  the  controller  received 
a  fine  of  EUR  750,000  for  seriously  violating  data 
protection rules.

6.2.1.8. 

FRANCE

In 2022, France handled several cases where it issued 
considerably  large  fines.  This  section  will  present  a 
selection of those cases. 

A  significant  fine  was  first  issued  to  a  controller  in 
April  2022.  The  fine  amounted  to  EUR  1,500,000 
and  was  served  to  Dedalus  Biologie  by  the  French 
SA regarding a massive data breach of the personal 
data  of  500,000  people.  In  this  case,  sensitive 
information  about  the  individuals’  health  as  well 
as  their  name,  social  security  number,  name  of 
prescribing  doctor  and  date  of  examination,  was 
released on the internet. The French SA held that the 
compromised data was a direct consequence of the 
controller’s  lack  of  satisfactory  security  measures. 

On 23 June, TotalEnergies Électricité et Gaz France 
was issued a sanction of EUR 1,000,000. The French SA 
accused the controller of rendering it impossible for 
individuals to refuse commercial prospecting. When 
filling out a web form for subscribing to an emerging 
contract, the user had no means to refuse the re-use 
of their personal data for ulterior purposes, such as 

58

commercial  canvassing.  In  doing  so,  the  controller 
infringed several provisions of the GDPR, notably the 
obligation to inform solicited individuals, the right of 
access to data and the right to object of data subjects, 
as well as the obligations relating to the modalities for 
exercising rights.  

On  19  October,  the  controller  Clearview  AI  was 
subjected  to  a  maximum  financial  penalty  of 
EUR  20,000,000.  French  SA  issued  the  fine  as  a 
consequence  of  the  controller’s  failure  to  comply 
with the SA’s earlier formal notice. The formal notice 
ordered the controller to stop the collection and use of 
the data of French citizens without a legal basis and to 
comply with their requests for erasure. In light of the 
serious violations of the data subjects’ fundamental 
rights, the restricted committee added to the fine a 
penalty of EUR 100,000 per day for delay in complying 
with the order. 

In November, three interesting cases were handled by 
the French SA. On 10 November, the controller Discord 
Inc was issued a hefty fine of EUR 800,000 for having 
infringed several provisions of the GDPR. This included 
a failure to define and respect a data retention period 
appropriate to the purpose of processing data (Art. 
5(1)(e)  GDPR),  to  comply  with  the  requirement  of 
providing information to the data subjects (Art. 13 
GDPR), to ensure data protection by default (Art. 25(2) 
GDPR), ensure personal data security (Art. 32 GDPR) as 
well as a failure to perform a DPIA (Art. 35 GDPR). 

Later in the month, the main electric utility in France 
“EDF” was held accountable for omitting to consider 
the data rights of its customers. Indeed, the controller 
did not collect the consent of individuals to receive 
commercial emails, nor did it inform the customers 
about its data processing activities. Lastly, the French 
SA argued that EDF had failed to ensure the security 
of the personal data of the customers. For the reasons 
mentioned  above,  EDF  was  issued  a  fine  of  EUR 
600,000.  

EDPB Annual Report 2022Finally,  the  third  case  handled  in  November  by 
the  French  SA  concerned  the  challenges  faced  by 
individuals  in  having  their  requests  for  accessing 
or  erasing  their  personal  data  considered  by  the 
controller Free. In addition to preventing individuals 
from exercising their rights to have access to their 
data or have it erased, the French phone operator Free 
failed to ensure the security of the data. The French 
SA  established  that  the  controller  did  not  fulfil  its 
obligation to document a personal data breach under 
Art. 33 GDPR. Free was therefore issued a fine of EUR 
300,000 and ordered to comply with the requests of 
its customers within three months. 

6.2.1.9. 

GERMANY

There are both national (federal) and regional SAs in 
Germany.  

A case was handled by the SA of the Free Hanseatic City 
of Bremen in March 2022, regarding the processing by 
a large company of over 9,500 data. This data belonged 
to numerous prospective tenants and was processed 
by  the  controller  without  a  legal  basis.  Moreover, 
the  information  processed  constituted  sensitive 
data  specifically  protected  under  the  GDPR,  such 
as skin colour, ethnic origin and religious affiliation. 
Additionally,  it  was  discovered  that  the  company 
had deliberately refused requests for transparency 
regarding its data processing activities. Considering 
the serious infringement of several provisions of the 
GDPR, the controller was issued three administrative 
fines of EUR 1,435,750, EUR 400,000 and EUR 75,000 
respectively.  

The  same  month,  a  second  case  related  to  the 
processing of personal data revealing political opinions 
was dealt with by the SA of the Free Hanseatic City of 
Bremen. In this case, a small regional political party 
went against the warning originally issued by the SA 
and proceeded to run a web-portal enabling students 
and parents to complain about the political views of 
teachers. As a consequence of having ignored the SA’s 

warning and subsequently infringing the GDPR, the 
controller was issued a fine of EUR 6,000.  

In August 2022, Berlin SA issued a fine of EUR 525,000 
on  a  subsidiary  of  a  Berlin-based  e-commerce 
company. The SA concluded that the controller did not 
honour the reprimand issued against the company in 
2021. Indeed, an inspection conducted by the Berlin 
SA in 2022 revealed that the controller had still not 
fulfilled  its  task  to  monitor  the  compliance  of  his 
service companies with data protection regulations. 

6.2.1.10.  GREECE

In a national case before the Ηellenic SA, two mobile 
telecommunications companies were fined in January 
2022 for personal data breaches. As a result of having 
provided unclear and insufficient information to its 
subscribers, the controller Cosmote was fined EUR 
6,000,000 for infringing the principles of legality and 
transparency. Additionally, the Hellenic SA established 
that  the  company  had  taken  inadequate  security 
measures  and,  amongst  other  things,  conducted 
a  poor  DPIA.  The  other  controller,  Ote,  was  also 
found guilty of infringing data security principles and 
received a fine of EUR 3,250,000.  

In another case, the Hellenic SA issued a EUR 2,000 fine 
to a controller for the violation of individuals’ rights 
to object, as well as the infringement of the GDPR 
principles of lawfulness, fairness and transparency. 
This fine was issued in March 2022 after a complaint 
was made by a teacher that their employer regularly 
monitored online courses taught via “Zoom”, despite 
the  employee’s  objections.  Furthermore,  the 
employer failed to provide a valid legal basis for the 
processing in question.  

On 19 July 2022, the Hellenic SA dealt with a case of 
unlawful processing of data revealing the balance of 
a debtor’s debt. The processing was conducted by a 
loans and credits claims management company even 
though a judicial exemption from the complainant’s 

59

EDPB Annual Report 2022debts  existed.  Furthermore,  by  claiming  that  the 
complainant could not be identified, the controller 
impeded  the  exercise  of  their  rights.  Hence,  the 
Hellenic  SA  decided  to  impose  two  fines  of  EUR 
10,000 each on the controller for the various GDPR 
infringements. 

A second decision was adopted by the Hellenic SA in 
July 2022. This decision was issued against Clearview 
AI  Inc,  a  company  marketing  facial  recognition 
services, for violating the principles of lawfulness and 
transparency. The company received a EUR 20,000,000 
fine  and  was  ordered  to  satisfy  the  complainant’s 
request  for  access  to  personal  data.  Additionally, 
the Hellenic SA commanded the controller to delete 
all personal data of the Greek data subjects which it 
had  processed  using  facial  recognition  technology. 
A general prohibition to process personal data using 
such methods was also imposed on the company. 

In August, several controllers were issued fines in a 
case involving the publishing and processing of the 
results  of  self-tests  on  the  electronic  application 
“self-testing.gov.gr”. Indika S.A. was fined EUR 5,000 
for the lack of effective security measures, while the 
controller, Greek Seamen’s Fund (NAT), was ordered 
to remove the application from its IT system as well 
as delete the data of ship crew members. Moreover, 
Indika  S.A.  and  the  Ministry  of  Labour  and  Social 
Affairs were reprimanded for drafting an incomplete 
and overdue impact assessment. Finally, a fine of EUR 
5,000 was issued to both the Ministry of Interior and 
NAT for omitting to comply with the requirement to 
carry out an impact assessment.

6.2.1.11.  HUNGARY

In 2022, the Hungarian SA imposed multiple fines for 
violations of data protection law. Selected cases are 
listed here: 

• 

In  February,  the  controller  Budapest  Bank  Zrt 
was fined EUR 650,000 for processing, with the 

• 

• 

• 

help  of  software  using  AI,  the  emotional  state 
of  its  clients  during  calls.  The  Hungarian  SA 
concluded that both the legitimate interest and 
impact assessments failed to provide any actual 
risk mitigation and that data processing using AI 
may pose a high risk to individuals’ fundamental 
rights.  

In April, the Hungarian SA held that the Hungarian 
Two  Tailed  Dog  Party,  a  political  satirical  joke 
party,  had  not  applied  sufficient  security 
measures when storing the data of sympathisers 
and activists. Indeed, this special data was stored 
online  on  Google  sheets,  thereby  rendering  it 
possible  for  anyone  with  a  link  to  access  and 
download it on a local computer. A fine of EUR 
7,500 was issued to the Party. 

In March, a serious case regarding the publication 
of  pornographic  photographs  of  a  data  subject 
on a website was handled by the Hungarian SA. 
Even though the complainant had given consent 
to be photographed 10 years ago, the SA argued 
that such consent was not a valid  legal ground 
for  the  processing  activities  of  the  website’s 
controller, especially since the pictures featured 
the complainant’s full legal name. Not only was 
the processing held unlawful, but the controller 
also  infringed  the  rights  of  the  complainant  by 
denying its request to have the data deleted. The 
SA  thereby  ordered  the  controller  to  erase  the 
pictures  and  the  subject’s  legal  name  from  the 
website.  

In August, the Hungarian SA dealt with a national 
case involving the processing of personal data by 
a financial institution during credit assessments. 
In  the  case  at  hand,  the  complainant  had 
not  given  their  consent  to  have  his  personal 
data  processed  during  such  assessments.  The 
controller was imposed a fine of approximately 
EUR  78,945  for  failing  to  refer  its  processing 
activities  to  an  appropriate  legal  basis  and  to 

60

EDPB Annual Report 2022carry  out  an  interest  assessment.  Moreover, 
adequate information had not been provided to 
the  complainant  regarding  the  processing  and 
storage of their personal data.  

In  October,  the  Hungarian  SA  recalled  that 
data  processing  through  a  camera  surveillance 
system during opening hours is unlawful, based 
on Section 38 of EDPB’s Guidelines 3/2019. The 
SA  held  that  the  controller  of  the  surveillance 
system  not  only  processed  the  data  without  a 
valid  legal  basis,  but  also  failed  to  adequately 
inform individuals of the processing activities.  

In  July,  a  physician  was  fined  EUR  1,500  by 
the  Hungarian  SA  for  failing  to  be  transparent 
regarding its data processing undertakings. The 
SA established that a client of the physician was 
refused access to a copy of the documentation 
laying  down  the  care  provided  to  her  during 
the  medical  consultation.  Additionally,  it  was 
discovered  that  the  physician  failed  his  legal 
duty  to  upload  the  findings  electronically  and 
provided  the patients  with  a  privacy statement 
containing untrue information.  

In  September,  the  Hungarian  SA 
issued  an 
administrative fine of EUR 75,000 to the controller 
Magyar  Éremkibocsátó  Kft.  The  controller  was 
criticised  for  processing  the  personal  data  of 
its  clients,  despite  having  not  received  their 
informed  consent.  Indeed,  when  purchasing 
collectors’ coins issued by the company, clients 
would have to check a box containing both the 
statement  of  purchase  and  the  statement  of 
consent to future marketing offers. The controller 
was therefore ordered by the SA to provide clear 
information to its customers.  

Later  in  the  month  of  September,  TV2  Média 
Csoport Zrt which operates two media websites 
was fined EUR 25,000 by the Hungarian SA. The 
fine  was  issued  as  a  result  of  the  controller’s 
failure  to  solve  the  limitations  of  its  cookie 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

consent  management  systems  (CMS).  Indeed, 
the  Hungarian  SA  held  that  the  CMS  did  not 
comply with the GDPR. 

journalists  and 

Lastly, an important case worth highlighting is the 
case related to the alleged use by the Hungarian 
law enforcement agencies and National Security 
Services of the spyware called “Pegasus” against 
investigative 
lawyers.  On  9 
August  2021,  the  Hungarian  SA  launched  an 
investigation  ex  officio  to  assess  whether  the 
activities of the latter were compliant with data 
protection  regulations.  This  investigation  was 
launched  after  a  list  containing  some  50,000 
phone  numbers,  that  had  potentially  been 
targeted  by  the  surveillance  tool,  was  leaked. 
In  its  decision,  the  Hungarian  SA  held  that  the 
processing  of  data  with  the  surveillance  tool 
Pegasus  was  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
legal data protection regulations.

6.2.1.12. 

ICELAND

The  Icelandic  SA  handled  several  cases  in  2022, 
focusing mainly on the unlawful processing of personal 
data. 

On 8 March, the Harpa Concert Hall and Conference 
Centre  was  ordered  to  stop  processing  the  data 
present on the tickets purchased by individuals for 
events organised by the company, such as ID numbers 
and dates of birth. The Icelandic SA held that this 
processing was not necessary as the contract of the 
purchase could have been fulfilled without this data. 
As a result of having violated the principles of legality, 
fairness, transparency and minimisation of data, the 
company was fined ISK 1,000,000 (approximately EUR 
7,200) and was further instructed to delete all the 
collected data.  

On 3 May, the Icelandic SA issued a fine of ISK 1,500,000 
(approximately EUR 10,700) on the controller HEI ehf, 
a medical travel agency in Iceland. The SA determined 

61

EDPB Annual Report 2022that the controller had not established the lawfulness 
of the processing by its employee of several doctors’ 
email  addresses.  Additionally,  the  complainant’s 
right to access his personal data was infringed by the 
controller who deliberately erased the data before 
processing the request.  

On the same day, 3 May, the Icelandic SA imposed a 
fine of ISK 5,000,000 (approximately EUR 35,768) on 
the municipality of Reykjavík for breaching several 
GDPR provisions by using Seesaw. It was established 
in a prior decision of the SA in December 2021, that 
the  municipality  was  unlawfully  processing  the 
personal data of students using an American cloud-
based service, Seesaw. The fine issued by the SA in 
2022 was based on reasons stated in its first decision 
as well as the fact that the infringement concerned the 
processing of sensitive data (of children). Moreover, 
when calculating the fine, the Icelandic SA considered 
that the municipality had co-operated, that there was 
no indication that the violation had caused damage 
and  that  Seesaw’s  general  information  security 
seemed to be adequate.

6.2.1.13. 

IRELAND

As a result of a personal data breach involving the 
accidental publication of individuals’ personal data on 
the internet, the Irish SA issued a reprimand and a fine 
of EUR 5,000 to Slane Credit Union Limited in January 
2022. It was deemed that the controller had infringed 
the principle of security of processing laid down in Art. 
5(1)(f) GDPR.  

On  14  March,  in  a  national  case  concerning  the 
unauthorised disclosure and accidental alterations of 
customer personal data, the Bank of Ireland Group, 
a data controller, was issued a fine of EUR 463,000. 
Indeed, not only did the controller report the data 
breaches  with  undue  delay,  but  it  also  provided 
insufficient information regarding the data breaches 
to the Irish SA. Additionally, the Irish SA established 
that the controller had failed to inform individuals in 

a timely manner that the breaches could potentially 
impact their fundamental rights and freedoms. Lastly, 
it was discovered that when transferring the data to 
the Central Credit Register, the bank had not ensured a 
level of security appropriate to the risks involved. 

On 3 May, the Irish SA, of its own volition, conducted 
a  monitoring  exercise  during  which  it  evaluated 
whether  public  sector  organisations  were  in 
compliance  with  the  requirement  to  designate  a 
data protection officer (DPO). It was established in 
this case, that the controller Pre-Hospital Emergency 
Care Council failed to designate a DPO and to publish 
and communicate the latter’s contact details to the 
Irish SA. Consequently, the controller was issued a 
reprimand. 

Furthermore, three important decisions were issued 
by the Irish SA in December 2022. 

The Irish SA imposed a reprimand on the controller 
An  Garda  Síochána  as  it  failed  to  implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures 
when  processing  the  personal  data  of  108  data 
subjects, some of whom were children. Moreover, the 
controller was ordered to bring its processing activities 
into compliance.  

In a second case concerning the unauthorised access of 
a large amount of personal data, the Irish SA imposed 
a EUR 15,000 fine on the A&G Couriers Limited T/A 
Fastway Couriers Ireland. This sanction was issued 
in light of the controller’s failure to provide a level of 
security suitable to the risks posed by its processing of 
personal data. 

Lastly, the third decision issued in December by the 
Irish SA was made in relation to the illegal access by 
an  unknown  actor,  most  likely  through  a  phishing 
attack,  of  personal  data  of  residents  of  the  Virtue 
Integrated Elder Care (VIEC). The Irish SA fined VIEC, 
as  a  controller,  EUR  100,000  for  failing  to  adopt 
appropriate technical and organisational measures 
which would have protected the data of its residents 

62

EDPB Annual Report 2022and limited the risk of access to its email system where 
the data was processed. 

6.2.1.14. 

LATVIA

On  21  April  2022,  the  Latvian  SA,  known  as  the 
Data  State  Inspectorate  of  Latvia,  imposed  an 
administrative fine of EUR 1,464.13 on the controller 
SIA “Your Move” for the infringement of Art. 83(5)(e) 
GDPR. The Latvian SA found that SIA “Your Move” had 
failed to comply with its order to provide information 
about the company’s processing activities. In short, 
the SA ordered the company to provide an explanation 
regarding  the  personal  data  breach  incident  that 
took  place  on  its  website,  however,  the  controller 
did not show an interest in providing the requested 
information. Hence, the controller failed to carry out 
its tasks under Art. 58(1)(e) GDPR.

6.2.1.15. 

LITHUANIA

The Lithuanian SA issued multiple fines in 2022. The 
Lithuanian SA carried out the following enforcement 
acts: 

• 

• 

Issued  a  fine  of  EUR  20,000  on  a  company 
providing  credit  assessment  services  for  the 
processing  of  data  on  financial  obligations,  in 
breach of Art. 6(1) GDPR as well as Art. 5(1)(a) 
and (b) GDPR. 

Imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  6,000  on  a  company 
managing  sports  clubs  for  the  failure  to  obtain 
the  valid  consent  of  its  customers  to  process 
their  biometric  data.  It  was  revealed  that  no 
alternatives for accessing the sports clubs other 
than identification through biometric data could 
be used by customers. In essence, the controller 
was  fined 
infringing  numerous  GDPR 
provisions,  namely:  principles  of  transparency 
and lawfulness (Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR), processing of 
special categories of personal data (Art. 9 GDPR), 
the  right  to  be  informed  about  the  processing 

for 

• 

• 

of  personal  data  (Art.  13(1)  and  (2)  GDPR), 
processing of activity records (Art. 30(1) and (3) 
GDPR)  and  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment 
(Art. 35(1) and (3)(b) GDPR). 

Issued a fine of EUR 35,000 on an IT company for 
its failure to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, 
integrity,  availability  and  resilience  of  its  data 
processing systems and services under Art. 32(1)
(b) GDPR. 

Found  an  applicant’s  complaint  concerning  the 
disclosure of his residential address to be well-
grounded. Indeed, the Lithuanian SA concluded 
that  the  controller,  a  public  authority,  had 
violated the principles of purpose limitation and 
data minimisation laid down in Art. 5(1)(b) and 
(c)  GDPR  by  publishing  the  claimant’s  personal 
data. 

•  Decided  that  a  controller’s  refusal  to  provide 
a  client  with  a  copy  of  the  requested  records 
of  telephone  conversations  (which  took  place 
between  the  client  and  an  employee)  violated 
Art. 15(3) GDPR.  

• 

• 

Took  corrective  actions  against  a  public 
organisation  for  infringing  Arts.  5(1)(a),  6  and 
7 GDPR. In this case, the Lithuania SA held that 
the  controller  had  violated  the  GDPR  by  :  (i) 
processing  children’s  image  data  without  their 
consent,  (ii)  failing  to  create  the  possibility  of 
free choice and the inability to withdraw consent 
without suffering damage, and (iii) failing to give 
separate  consent  for  individual  operations  of 
persona data processing. 

Recognised  an  applicant’s  complaint  against 
a  legal  entity  in  the  private  sector  as  well-
founded. The Lithuanian SA argued that the use 
by the controller of the complainant’s personal 
correspondence  with  another  employee,  as  a 
ground for dismissal, violated Art. 6(1) GDPR. No 
grounds could be used by the controller to justify 
that the processing was done in a lawful manner.  

63

EDPB Annual Report 2022• 

Concluded  that a controller  infringed Arts. 5(1)
(a) and 7(2) GDPR, as well as Art. 69(1) of the Law 
on  Electronic  Communications  of  the  Republic 
of Lithuania by failing to acquire the applicant’s 
legally  compliant  consent  to  receive  direct 
marketing messages.

6.2.1.16. 

LUXEMBOURG

In  March  2022,  the  Luxembourgish  SA  dealt  with 
a  complaint  where  a  data  controller  did  not  fulfil 
its  obligation  to  put  in  place  appropriate  security 
measures  when  processing  personal  data.  The 
Luxembourgish SA solved this issue by reprimanding 
the controller and ordering him to comply with the 
provisions of the GDPR. 

A  month  after,  a  data  controller  was  found  in 
violation of Arts. 13, 15 and 31 GDPR and was issued 
a  fine  amounting  to  EUR  1,500.  Particularly  worth 
mentioning is the controller’s failure to respect the 
right  of  access  of  the  complainant,  by  omitting  to 
provide him adequate information as laid down in Art. 
15 GDPR and its lack of cooperation with the SA.  

Two  cases  involving  the  use  of  video  surveillance 
for data processing purposes were dealt with by the 
Luxembourgish SA in 2022. 

The first case concerned the use of video surveillance 
and  geo-tracking  systems  to  collect  personal  data, 
which was handled by the SA in February 2022.  The 
data controller in this case was issued a fine of EUR 
4,900.  The  Luxembourgish  SA  considered  that  the 
controller  did  not  provide  data  subjects  sufficient 
information regarding the processing of their personal 
data (Art. 13 GDPR) and that the ranges of cameras 
used were disproportionate to the objective pursued 
(Art.  5(1)(c)  GDPR).  Indeed,  it  was  found  that  the 
controller  had  kept  the  personal  data  collected 
through  the  geo-tracking  system  for  longer  than 
necessary for the purposes for which it was processed. 

The second case also touched upon the topic of data 
processing via a video surveillance system. The use 
of a total of twelve cameras by the controller was 
deemed disproportionate and in violation of Art. 5(1)
(c) GDPR. Indeed, these cameras were aimed at the 
public road and neighbouring buildings, meaning that 
employees were constantly being monitored by the 
controller during both their worktime and break time. 
The controller was therefore issued a EUR 10,000 fine.  

Finally in December, the Luxembourgish SA imposed a 
EUR 2,100 fine on a data controller for the failure to 
sufficiently inform data subjects (Art. 13 GDPR) and be 
transparent about its data processing activities (Art. 
12(1) GDPR). According to the case facts, the controller 
collected personal data on its internet page as well as 
its mobile application.

6.2.1.17. 

THE NETHERLANDS

In 2022, the Dutch SA imposed multiple fines for GDPR 
violations. Three selected cases will be analysed in this 
section. 

The  first  case  concerns  complaints  made  to  the 
Dutch  SA  as  to  how  the  controller  Sanoma  Media 
Netherlands B.V. handled requests from individuals 
to access their data and have it deleted. Customers 
wishing to have their requests approved were asked 
by  the  controller  to  first  provide  a  copy  of  their 
identity document, something which the SA deemed 
to be completely unnecessary. While DPG Media, the 
company that took over Sanoma, later changed its 
practice to ensure that the data subjects’ rights would 
no longer be impeded, the Dutch SA however, still 
decided to impose a sanction. A fine of EUR 525,000 
was issued to DPG Media.  

The second case handled by the Dutch SA in 2022, 
involved the processing by the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs of an average of 530,000 visa applications per 
year in the last three years. The main concern of the 
SA was the failure of the Ministry to sufficiently secure 

64

EDPB Annual Report 2022the digital system it was using (NVIS) to process the 
data of visa applicants. Thereby, alongside a fine of 
EUR 565,000, the controller was ordered to adopt 
appropriate  security  measures  in  line  with  Art. 
32(1)  GDPR  and  provide  applicants  with  adequate 
information about their data processed in the context 
of the Schengen visa process. 

Lastly, in a third case concerning the use of a blacklist 
to register indications of fraud, the Dutch SA imposed a 
hefty fine of EUR 3,700,000 on the Tax Administration 
for illegally processing personal data for several years 
in its ‘fraud identification facility’. The SA held that 
the use of the said blacklist by the Tax Administration 
greatly impacted the rights of individuals that were 
wrongfully added to it. Indeed, once included in this 
list, the individuals were registered as possible tax 
frauds. 

6.2.1.18.  NORWAY

The Norwegian SA carried out the following actions in 
2022: 

• 

• 

• 

Banned  the  processing  of  personal  data  of 
internet  users  by  the  controller  Shinigami 
Eyes  for  failing  to  provide  a  legal  basis  for  its 
processing  activities.  According  to  the  SA,  the 
controller which is a browser extension available 
for  Chrome  and  Firefox,  would  tag  individuals 
without their knowledge and in doing so would 
also give indications to other users as to whether 
the tagged individual was pro- or anti-trans. This 
subjective assessment was deemed by the SA to 
be a threat to the free exchange of ideas online. 

Issued  a  fine  of  EUR  5,000  on  the  controller 
Etterforsker1  Gruppen  AS  for  performing  an 
unwarranted credit rating on a private individual 
without  any  type  of  customer  relationship 
between them. 

Imposed  a  hefty  fine  of  EUR  500,000  on  the 
Norwegian  Labour  and  Welfare  Administration 

for  publishing  CVs  of  users  on  the  service 
arbeidsplassen.no  without  the  proper 
legal 
basis to do so (Art. 6 GDPR). However, it is worth 
mentioning that the controller took active steps 
to remedy the situation when the infringement 
was discovered. 

•  Ordered 

the  municipality  of  Østre  Toten 
to  implement  a  suitable  control  system  for 
information security and personal data protection, 
but also imposed a fine of EUR 400,000 for the 
failure to protect its IT systems against a serious 
cyberattack. This attack was made possible due 
to  the  severe  and  fundamental  security  flaws 
present in its systems.  

• 

• 

Issued  the  controller  Storting  a  fine  of  EUR 
200,000  for  inadequate  security.  Indeed,  the 
Norwegian SA concluded that Storting had failed 
to prevent the unauthorised logins to important 
email accounts, such as those of parliamentary 
representatives,  by  not  having 
implemented 
suitable  technical  and  organisational  measures 
as required under Art. 32 GDPR.  

Imposed a fine of EUR 500,000 to the controller 
Trumf for failing to secure the processing of its 
members’  purchasing  history.  The  SA  held  that 
the controller had not implemented a measure 
verifying  whether  a  user  registering  a  bank 
account was that account’s real owner. Members 
of  Trumf  were  therefore  able  to  easily  access 
the  purchasing  history  of  another  individual  by 
registering  with  the  unknown  person’s  account 
number.

6.2.1.19. 

POLAND

This section will highlight six cases of interest, handled 
by the Polish SA in 2022. 

On  9  January,  in  a  case  involving  the  copy  by 
unauthorized  persons  of  an  additional  customer 
database of the controller, the Polish SA issued fines on 
both the controller and the processor. The controller, 

65

EDPB Annual Report 2022Fortum Marketing and Sales Polska S.A, was issued a 
fine of EUR 1,080,000 for having infringed Arts. 5(1)(f), 
24(1), 25(1), 28(1), 32(1) and (2) GDPR. The processor, 
however, was imposed a smaller fine of EUR 55,000 for 
violating Arts. 32(1) and (2) in relation to Arts. 28(3)(c) 
and (f) GDPR.  

On 31 May 2022, the Polish SA issued an administrative 
fine  of  approximately  EUR  2,200  on  the  Warsaw 
Centre for Intoxicated Persons for infringing, through 
its  surveillance  system,  Art.  6(1)  (lawfulness  of 
processing) and Art. 5(1)(a) (principles of lawfulness, 
fairness and transparency) GDPR.  

On  7  September,  the  Cultural  Centre  of  Sułkowice 
municipality received an administrative fine of PLN 
2,500  (approximately  EUR  529)  for  outsourcing 
parts of its activities to a processor without a written 
contract, as required under Art. 28(3) and (9) GDPR. 
Furthermore, the controller failed to check that the 
processor  had  provided  sufficient  guarantees  for 
the  implementation  of  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational safeguards (Art. 28(1) GDPR). 

On  2  November,  the  Mayor  of  the  Commune  was 
sanctioned for having infringed several provisions of 
the GDPR, namely: Arts. 25(1), 24(1), 5(1)(f) and (2), as 
well as 32(1) and (2). A fine of PLN 8,000 (approximately 
EUR 1, 695) was issued by the Polish SA to the Mayor 
after it was revealed that he had failed to implement 
security measures on its portable computer device. 
The computer, which was stolen as a result of a break-
in in the controller’s apartment, contained a file with 
personal data of the complainants. 

On 16 November, the Polish SA issued a fine of EUR 
340,717.27  to  a  controller  based  in  Warsaw,  for 
infringing Arts. 5(1)(f), 5(2), 25(1), 32(1) and (2) GDPR. 
This sanction was imposed in light of a data breach, 
which took place as a result of the exploitation of 
the controller’s vulnerable IT system. Indeed, the SA 
held that the controller had infringed the principle 
of confidentiality as it did not put in place adequate 

safeguards, which would ensure that the data stored 
in its system is protected against unauthorised access.  

Later  in  November,  the  Polish  SA  held  that  the 
processing of special categories of personal data of 
potential customers, as done by the controller Pionier, 
infringed Arts. 6(1), 5(1)(a) as well as 9(1) and (2) 
GDPR. Therefore, the controller was issued a fine of 
more than PLN 45,000 (approximately EUR 9,537) and 
ordered to cease processing the sensitive data without 
a legal basis.

6.2.1.20. 

PORTUGAL

On 11 February, the Portuguese SA concluded that 
the  Portuguese  National  Statistics  Institute  had 
committed, in the context of processing data obtained 
from  its  national  census  survey,  the  following  five 
GDPR violations: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

lack  of  lawfulness  for  the  processing  of  special 
categories of personal data (Art. 9(1) GDPR); 

lack of compliance with transparency obligations 
(Arts. 12 and 13 GDPR); 

lack of a DPIA (Arts. 35(1), (2) and (3)(b) GDPR), 
including all the processing activities and relevant 
dimensions of Census; 

lack of due diligence concerning the choice of the 
processor (Arts. 28(1), (6) and (7) GDPR); and 

lack of compliance with the legal requirements 
for international data transfers (Arts. 44 and 46(2) 
GDPR), as interpreted by the Court of Justice of 
the European Union in the Schrems II ruling. 

A single fine of EUR 4,300,000 was imposed on the 
controller. 

In  June,  several  telecom  operators  were  ordered 
by  the  Portuguese  SA  to  delete  all  the  traffic  and 
location data of its users. Such data had been stored 
for a year by the controllers in specific databases to 
help  law  enforcement  authorities  in  their  work  of 

66

EDPB Annual Report 2022investigating serious crimes. However, the SA argued 
that the processing of such data under Art. 4 of Law 
32/2008 no longer enjoyed a legal basis and therefore, 
conflicted with the principle of lawfulness of Art. 5(1)
(a) GDPR. Indeed, as a result of the Ruling 268/2022 in 
2014, key provisions of Law 32/2008 (transposing the 
Data Retention Directive), such as Art. 4, were found 
unconstitutional. 

6.2.1.21. 

ROMANIA

At the beginning of April, following an investigation 
of a personal data security breach consisting of the 
disclosure of the data of 32 employees, the Romanian 
SA sanctioned a controller with a corrective measure. 
It was discovered by the SA that the controller had 
infringed Art. 32(1)(b) and (2) GDPR, which led to the 
unauthorised disclosure through e-mail of a document 
containing the employees’ personal data.   

In May, the Romanian SA issued a fine of EUR 3,000 to 
the controller Wine Point SRL for violating Art. 32 GDPR 
by failing to take sufficient technical and organisational 
measures in order to ensure the confidentiality of the 
personal data processed. Indeed, the controller sent 
an  e-mail  to  several  individuals  at  the  same  time, 
thereby disclosing their e-mail addresses to everyone.  

The same month, a courier company was sanctioned 
with a reprimand and a corrective measure by the 
Romanian SA. This sanction was issued as a result of 
the  processor’s  breach  of  Art.32(1)(b),  (2)  and  (4) 
GDPR.  

In  July,  the  cosmetic  company  Sephora  Cosmetics 
Romania SA was sanctioned with a fine of EUR 2,000 
for  the  breach  of  Art.  21  GDPR.  The  Romanian  SA 
established that Sephora dismissed a request from the 
complainant not to use her personal data for marketing 
purposes. Indeed, after promising the complainant 
that her data would not be used, the controller still 
sent her unsolicited commercial messages.  

In early September, the Romanian SA sanctioned a 
public institution for posting on its website 582 Excel 
files containing personal data of numerous individuals. 
It was established that the password for accessing the 
files had been disclosed, thereby increasing the risk of 
unauthorised access to the data. A reprimand, as well 
as a corrective measure, was issued by the SA on the 
institution for infringing Art. 32(1)(b) and (2) GDPR. 

Later in September, the Romanian SA reprimanded 
the controller Târgu-Jiu Emergency County Hospital 
for infringing Art. 5(1)(a), (c) and (2) in conjunction 
with Art. 6 GDPR. The controller had published the 
complainant’s personal data on the Internet without 
his consent and failed to answer the complainant’s 
request.  The  complainant  had  asked  to  receive 
information regarding the personal data security policy 
as well as the reasons and the legal basis for disclosing 
his data. In addition to the fine, the SA ordered the 
controller to ensure that his processing operations 
complied  with  the  GDPR  and  that  the  persons 
processing data under his authority be trained.  

In October, a commercial company was sanctioned 
by the Romanian SA for collecting and disclosing on 
its website the personal data of natural persons and 
former employees of some companies without their 
consent. The controller was sanctioned with: 

• 

• 

• 

a  fine  of  EUR  5,000  for  infringing  Art.6(1)  in 
conjunction with Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR; 

a reprimand for the breach of Art. 5(1)(d) GDPR; 
and 

a reprimand for the breach of Art. 14 corroborated 
with Art. 12 GDPR.

6.2.1.22. 

SLOVENIA

In 2022, the Slovenian SA handled several cases. A few 
cases of particular importance are presented in this 
section.  

67

EDPB Annual Report 2022In July, the Slovenian police was ordered by the SA 
to reconsider a specific case as it did not determine 
all the substantial circumstances and facts. The case 
concerned an individual’s request to access personal 
data (Art. 15 GDPR) regarding her entry in the Republic 
of Slovenia, through a particular border crossing point. 
The request was rejected by the controller for the 
reason that it did not keep a record of crossings at the 
national border. The complainant responded to the 
police’s decision by filing an appeal. 

In early October, the Slovenian SA ordered a controller 
to stop processing the location data of employees 
using its delivery vehicles. The SA found that the data 
was continuously, systematically and automatically 
processed  by  the  controller  through  GPS  tracking 
which enabled him to immediately determine who 
was  using  the  company  vehicle  and  where  the 
employee was located. The SA concluded that the 
tracking was disproportionate to the aim pursued (i.e. 
safety of individuals in case of traffic incidents), there 
was no legal basis of legitimate interests for processing 
(Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR) and the GPS tracking infringed the 
principle of data minimisation (Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR).  

Later in the month, an employer in the private sector 
was  ordered  by  the  Slovenian  SA  to  remove  its 
cameras monitoring work areas as it failed to fulfil 
the requirement of necessity. Indeed, the SA argued 
that other milder measures could have been used 
to  monitor  the  compliance  of  work  tasks  (i.e.  the 
use of machinery) with working safety rules, such as 
employees’ statements or by using the data processed 
by the machinery itself.  

In  September,  the  Slovenian  SA  handled  a  case 
concerning a request made by an individual to receive 
the documents and information about the recipients 
of his data. In this case, the SA concluded that the 
documentation the complainant had asked to access, 
enclosed information about the market performance 
of an economic entity and not data of a natural person. 
Hence, the SA argued that there was no legal basis for 

the individual to receive the documents, nor the list of 
recipients of the data.  

In December, a warning was issued by the Slovenian 
SA to a public penal institution for failing to put in place 
technical and organisational measures ensuring that 
video recordings would not be deleted. This warning 
was issued after an applicant had requested a copy 
of a video recording capturing his movements in a 
particular area of the prison during a specific date and 
was denied access to the data. It was established by 
the SA that the recording video had been automatically 
deleted  by  the  controller  after  the  request  of  the 
complainant had been submitted.

6.2.1.23. 

SPAIN

In 2021, the Spanish SA dealt with five cases involving 
the issuance of duplicate SIM cards to third parties 
other than subscribers. In those cases, the Spanish 
SA issued hefty fines for the violation of Art. 5(1)(f) 
GDPR. In separate decisions, the controllers Telefónica 
Móviles España, Orange Espagne, Xfera Móviles and 
Orange  España  Virtual  were  accused  of  failing  to 
implement appropriate measures, thereby generating 
the loss of confidentiality and the transfer of personal 
data to a third party. The largest fine (EUR 3,940,000) 
was imposed on the controller Vodafone Espanã as not 
only did the company infringe Art. 5(1)(f) GDPR, but it 
also violated the principle of accountability under Art. 
5(2) GDPR.  

Furthermore, in March 2022, the Spanish SA imposed a 
fine of EUR 10,000,000 on the controller Google LLC for 
two infringements of the GDPR, namely lawfulness of 
processing (Art. 6) and the right to erasure (Art. 7). The 
Spanish SA found that the controller was transferring 
data without legitimacy to Lumen Database and was 
obstructing the right of erasure. 

In  2022,  the  Spanish  SA  dealt  with  two  cases 
concerning  the  processing  of  personal  data  on 
pornographic websites. The possibility that minors 
could  register  on  the  website  and  have  direct, 

68

EDPB Annual Report 2022uncontrolled access to pornographic content was a 
major problem in these cases. Upon registering, the 
minors’ data was processed by the controllers. The 
Spanish SA ordered the controllers Burwebs S.L and 
Techpump Solutions S.L to implement, within a month, 
the necessary corrective measures to ensure that their 
activities complied with data protection regulations 
and  that  minors  were  effectively  prevented  from 
having access to the website’s content. Additionally, 
the Spanish SA issued Burwebs a fine of EUR 75,000 
for the infringement of Arts. 5(1)(a), (b) and (e), 8, 
12(2), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR and Art. 22(2) of the Law of 
Information Society Services and Electronic Commerce 
(LSSI). On the other hand, Techpump Solutions was 
issued a fine of EUR 525,000 for the violations of Arts. 
5(1)(a), (b) and (e), 6(1), 8, 12(1), 12(2), 13, 25 and 30 
GDPR and Art. 22(2) LSSI.

6.2.1.24. 

SWEDEN

In  this  section,  three  enforcement  measures 
conducted in 2022 by the Swedish SA for violations of 
the GDPR will be presented. 

On 14 March, the Swedish Customs was issued an 
administrative fine of EUR 30,000 by the SA. It was 
established  that  the  controller  had  not  taken  the 
necessary technical and organizational measures to 
prevent the data breach. Indeed, the technical barriers 
which had been set by the controller to restrict the 
storage and copying of data from staff mobiles in a US 
cloud service were not strong enough.  

Later  in  the  month,  a  financial  company  named 
Klarna was issued a fine of EUR 700,000 for numerous 
infringements of the GPDR. This includes the failure to 
provide information on the purpose and legal basis of 
the processing of personal data as well as to disclose 
to which non-EU countries the data was transferred 
to.  Additionally,  the  Swedish  SA  discovered  during 
its  investigation  that  the  controller  has  provided 
incomplete  information  about  the  data  subject’s 
rights. 

The Swedish SA issued two separate fines in 2022 
on  different  controllers  within  the  same  case,  for 
breaching  Art.  32  GDPR.  In  other  words,  both  the 
Regional  Board  and  the  Hospital  Board  within  the 
Region of Uppsala were condemned by the Swedish 
SA  for  failing  to  adequately  secure  the  processing 
of sensitive data. The Regional Board was imposed 
an  administrative  sanction  of  EUR  30,000  as  the 
information contained in the emails it had distributed 
to  healthcare  administrations  within  the  region 
was  not  encrypted,  thereby  opening  the  door  to 
unauthorised access. On the other hand, the Hospital 
Board was issued a fine of EUR 160,000, as not only did 
it fail to implement adequate security measures, but 
it also processed the data of patients in breach of Art. 
5(1)(f) GDPR. 

6.3.  SA SURVEY - BUDGET AND STAFF

Statistics  on  resources  made  available  by  Member 
States to the SAs from the EEA are gathered by the 
EDPB  each  year.  On  5  September  2022,  the  EDPB 
published an “Overview on resources made available 
by Member States to the Data Protection Supervisory 
Authorities”. Most SAs (23) explicitly stated that their 
allocated  budget  is  not  sufficient  for  carrying  out 
their activities, while some SAs considered they had 
sufficient financial resources. Based on information 
provided  by  30  SAs  from  EEA  countries  prior  to 
September 2022, five SAs saw budgetary decreases in 
contrast to their 2021 budget.  

Eight SAs faced a decrease in employees compared to 
2021. Overall, a vast majority of SAs (26) underlined 
that they do not have enough human resources to face 
their workload. 

In its Contribution to the evaluation of the GDPR under 
Art. 97 adopted in 2020, the EDPB underlined that the 
SAs’ ability to carry out their duties attributed by the 
GDPR is largely dependent on the resources made 
available to them.

69

EDPB Annual Report 20227

COORDINATED SUPERVISION  
COMMITTEE OF THE LARGE EU 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND 
OF EU BODIES, OFFICES AND        
AGENCIES

As reflected in Art. 62 of Regulation 2018/1725, an 
active  collaboration  between  the  European  Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS) and national Supervisory 
Authorities (SAs) is required to ensure the effective 
supervision of large-scale IT systems and of EU bodies, 
offices and agencies. While in the past the EDPS and 
the  involved  SAs  cooperated  through  a  system  of 
individual Supervision Coordination Groups (SCGs),55 
in  December  2019,  the  Coordinated  Supervision 
Committee (CSC) was established within the EDPB to 
ensure the consistency of supervision efforts on all 
levels. 

The CSC brings together the SAs of each EU Member 
State and the EDPS, as well as SAs of non-EU Members 
of the Schengen Area when foreseen under EU law. In 
the period between 2020-2022, the CSC carried out 
numerous notable tasks: it promoted and facilitated 

the  exercise  of  data  subject  rights,  examined  the 
interpretation  or  application  issues  concerning  EU 
and  national  law,  exchanged  relevant  information, 
conducted  joint  audits  and  inspections,  as  well  as 
prepared for the start of the activities of the European 
Public  Prosecutor  Office  and  other  EU  bodies  and 
information systems falling under the Committee’s 
scope. 

Participation in the CSC meetings can occur under 
various arrangements, depending on the IT system, 
body, office or agency for which supervision is taking 
place, as well as the respective EU legal act.  

Pursuant  to  Art.  62  of  Regulation  2018/1725,  the 
following EU large-scale IT systems, bodies, offices and 
agencies currently fall under the CSC’s scope:  

55 

In the past, four SCGs were created for the following systems: Schengen, Visa and Customs Information Systems, as well as for Eurodac.

70

EDPB Annual Report 2022• 

• 

Eurodac, which compares fingerprints of asylum 
applicants to see if they have previously applied 
for  asylum  or  entered  the  EU  irregularly  via 
another Member State;  

Customs  Information  System  (CIS),  which  is  an 
automated  information  system  that  assists  EU 
State  administrative  authorities  in  preventing, 
investigating and prosecuting operations that are 
in breach of customs or agricultural legislation.  

Police and Judicial Cooperation:  

• 

• 

European  Criminal  Records  Information  System 
on  third  country  nationals  (ECRIS-TCN),  which 
allows EU Member State authorities to identify 
which other Member States hold criminal records 
on  third  country  nationals  or  stateless  persons 
being checked ;    

Schengen  Information  System  (SIS)  (see  above, 
as this system also fall under Police and Judicial 
cooperation). 

More  relevant  info  can  be  found  in  the  EDPB’s  bi-
annual report on the CSC. 

Internal Market:  

• 

Internal Market Information System (IMI), which 
allows  the  exchange  of  information  between 
public  authorities 
in  the  practical 
involved 
implementation of EU law.   

Police and Judicial Cooperation:   

• 

• 

• 

Eurojust,  the  agency  responsible  for  judicial 
cooperation 
in  criminal  matters  among  EU 
Member States; 

European  Public  Prosecutor  Office  (EPPO),  the 
prosecution agency responsible for investigating, 
prosecuting  and  bringing  to  judgment  crimes 
against the EU budget;

European  Union  Agency  for  Law  Enforcement 
Cooperation (Europol).

In the future, all coordinated supervision of large EU 
information systems, bodies, offices and agencies will 
gradually be moved to the CSC, including:  

Border, Asylum and Migration:  

• 

• 

• 

• 

Schengen  Information  System  (SIS),  ensuring 
border control cooperation;

Entry  Exit  System  (EES),  which  registers  entry 
and exit data and refusal of entry data of third 
country  nationals  crossing  the  external  borders 
of the Schengen States ; 

European  Travel  Information  and  Authorisation 
System  (ETIAS),  which  tracks  visitors  from 
countries  who  do  not  need  a  visa  to  enter  the 
Schengen;  

Information  System 

Visa 
(VIS),  connecting 
consulates in non-EU countries and all external 
border-crossing points of Schengen States;  

71

EDPB Annual Report 20228

ANNEXES

8.1.  GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED 

IN 2022

•  Guidelines  01/2021  on  Examples  regarding 

Personal Data Breach Notification

•  Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools 

for transfers (version 2.0) 

•  Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights - Right 

of access 

•  Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 

60 GDPR 

•  Guidelines 03/2022 on deceptive design patterns 
in  social  media  platform  interfaces:  how  to 
recognise and avoid them

•  Guidelines  04/2022  on 

the  calculation  of 

administrative fines under the GDPR 

•  Guidelines 

  05/2022  on  the  use  of  facial 
law 

in  the  area  of 

recognition  technology 
enforcement 

•  Guidelines 

06/2022 

on 

the 

practical 

implementation of amicable settlements 

•  Guidelines 07/2022 on certification as a tool for 

transfers 

•  Guidelines 8/2022 on identifying a controller or 

processor’s lead supervisory authority 

• 

Recommendations 1/2022 on the Application for 
Approval and on the elements and principles to 
be  found  in  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules 
(Art. 47 GDPR)

8.2.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS AND 
DECISIONS ADOPTED IN 2022

•  Decision  01/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French Supervisory Authority regarding Accor SA 
under Article 65(1)(a) GDPR 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Binding Decision 2/2022 on the draft decision of 
the  Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  Meta 
Platforms 
Ireland  Limited  (Instagram)  under 
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR 

Binding Decision 3/2022 on the dispute submitted 
by the Irish SA on Meta Platforms Ireland Limited 
and its Facebook service (Art. 65 GDPR) 

Binding Decision 4/2022 on the dispute submitted 
by the Irish SA on Meta Platforms Ireland Limited 
and its Instagram service (Art. 65 GDPR) 

Binding  Decision  5/2022  on 
the  dispute 
submitted  by  the  Irish  SA  regarding  WhatsApp 
Ireland Limited (Art. 65 GDPR) 

•  Opinion  1/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Luxembourg Supervisory Authority regarding the 
GDPR – CARPA certification criteria 

•  Guidelines  9/2022  on  personal  data  breach 

notification under GDPR 

•  Opinion  02/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 

72

EDPB Annual Report 2022Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
WEBHELP Group 

accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

•  Opinion  03/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
WEBHELP Group 

•  Opinion  04/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Norican 
Group 

•  Opinion  05/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Lundbeck Group 

•  Opinion  06/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Groupon 
International Limited 

•  Opinion  07/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Hungarian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of MOL Group 

•  Opinion  08/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of Bioclinica 
Group 

•  Opinion  09/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Bioclinica 
Group 

•  Opinion  10/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Hesse  Supervisory  Authority  (Germany) 
regarding the Controller Binding Corporate Rules 
of Fresenius Group 

•  Opinion  11/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Poland 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 

•  Opinion  12/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  France 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

•  Opinion  13/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Bulgaria 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

•  Opinion  14/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Bulgaria 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

•  Opinion  15/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent supervisory authority of Luxembourg 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

•  Opinion  16/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Slovenia 
regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for 
accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

•  Opinion  17/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Spanish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
ANTOLIN Group 

•  Opinion  18/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Baden-  Württemberg  (Germany)  Supervisory 
Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the Daimler Truck Group 

•  Opinion  19/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Baden-  Württemberg  (Germany)  Supervisory 

73

EDPB Annual Report 2022Authority  regarding 
Corporate Rules of the Mercedes- Benz Group 

the  Controller  Binding 

•  Opinion 20/2022 on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller 
Binding Corporate Rules of the Ellucian Group 

•  Opinion 21/2022 on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor 
Binding Corporate Rules of the Ellucian Group 

•  Opinion  22/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Hilti 
Group 

•  Opinion  23/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Swedish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of the Samres 
Group 

•  Opinion  24/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Swedish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Samres 
Group 

•  Opinion  25/2022 

regarding 

the  European 
Privacy  Seal  (EuroPriSe)  certification  criteria  for 
the  certification  of  processing  operations  by 
processors 

•  Opinion  26/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Data  Protection  Authority  of  Bavaria  for  the 
Private  Sector  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  Munich  Re  Reinsurance 
Group 

•  Opinion  27/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  LEYTON 
Group 

•  Opinion  28/2022  on  the  Europrivacy  criteria 
of  certification  regarding  their  approval  by  the 
Board as European Data Protection Seal pursuant 
to Article 42.5 (GDPR) 

74

•  Opinion  29/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  DSV 
Group 

•  Opinion  30/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Slovak  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Piano 
Group 

•  Opinion  31/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Slovak  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Piano 
Group 

•  Opinion  32/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Ramboll Group

8.3.  JOINT OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 

2022

• 

• 

• 

• 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2022 on the extension 
of the Covid-19 certificate Regulation 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 2/2022 on the Proposal 
of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 
on harmonised rules on fair access to and use of 
data (Data Act) 

EDPB-EDPS  Joint  Opinion  03/2022  on  the 
Proposal for a Regulation on the European Health 
Data Space 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2022 on the Proposal 
for a Regulation of the European Parliament and 
of the Council laying down rules to prevent and 
combat child sexual abuse

8.4.  LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION

• 

Statement 01/2022 on the announcement of an 
agreement  in  principle  on  a  new  Trans-Atlantic 
Data Privacy Framework

EDPB Annual Report 2022• 

• 

• 

• 

Statement 04/2022 on the design choices for a 
digital euro from the privacy and data protection 
perspective

Statement  on  the  implications  of  the  CJEU 
judgment C-817/19 on the use of PNR in Member 
States

EDPB Letter to the EU Commission on procedural 
aspects that could be harmonised at EU level

the  EDPB 

Response  of 
the  European 
Commission’s targeted consultation on a digital 
euro

to 

8.5.  OTHER DOCUMENTS

• 

• 

• 

• 

Statement 02/2022 on personal data transfers to 
the Russian Federation 

Statement  03/2022  on  the  European  Police 
Cooperation Code 

Statement on enforcement cooperation (‘Vienna 
statement’) 

EDPB Document on selection of cases of strategic 
importance 

75

EDPB Annual Report 20228.6.  LIST OF EXPERT SUBGROUPS AND TASKFORCES WITH SCOPE OF MANDATES

NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP 
(ESG)

Borders, Travel & Law 
Enforcement Expert Subgroup  
(BTLE) 

Compliance, e-Government and 
Health Expert Subgroup (CEH) 

SCOPE OF MANDATE

•  Law Enforcement Directive 

•  Cross-border requests for e-evidence 

•  Adequacy  decisions  under  the  Law  Enforcement  Directive,  access 
to  transferred  data  by  law  enforcement  and  national  intelligence 
authorities in third countries 

•  Passenger Name Records (PNR) 

•  Border controls

•  Codes of conduct, certification and accreditation 

•  Compliance with public law and eGovernment 

•  Processing of personal data concerning health 

•  Processing of personal data for scientific research purposes 

•  Consultation  on  several  legislative  proposals  by  the  European 

Commission within the Digital Strategy 

•  Close cooperation on DPIA with the Technology ESG focusing on the 

perspective of their mandates 

•  Close  cooperation  on  privacy  by  design  and  by  default  with  the 

Technology ESG focusing on the perspective of their mandates

Cooperation Expert Subgroup 
(COOP)

•  General  focus  on  procedures  of  established  by  the  GDPR  for  the 

purposes of the cooperation mechanism 

•  Guidance  on  procedural  questions 

linked  to  the  cooperation 

mechanism 

• 

International  mutual  assistance  and  other  cooperation  tools  to 
enforce the legislation for the protection of personal data outside the 
EU (Art. 50 GDPR)

Coordinators Expert Subgroup 
(COORD) 

•  General coordination between the Expert Subgroup Coordinators 

•  Coordination on the annual Expert Subgroup working plan

76

EDPB Annual Report 2022Enforcement Expert Subgroup 
(ENF)

•  Mapping/analysing the need for additional clarifications or guidance, 
based on practical experiences with the application of Chapters VI, 
VII and VIII GDPR 

•  Mapping/analysing  possible  updates  of  existing  Cooperation 

subgroup tools 

•  Monitoring of investigation activities 

•  Practical questions on investigations 

•  Guidance on the practical application of Chapter VII GDPR including 

exchanges on concrete cases 

•  Guidance on the application of Chapter VIII GDPR together with the 

Taskforce on Administrative Fines 

•  Art. 65 and Art. 66 procedures

Application  of  data  protection  principles  in  the  financial  sector  (e.g. 
automatic exchange of personal data for tax purposes; impact of FATCA 
on the protection of personal data; interplay between Second Payment 
Services Directive and GDPR)

Financial Matters Expert 
Subgroup (FMESG)

International Transfers Expert 
Subgroup (ITS)

Guidance on Chapter V (International transfer tools and policy issues), 
more specifically:  

• 

Review European Commission Adequacy decisions 

•  Guidelines  on  Art.  46  GDPR  and  review  of  administrative 

arrangements between public authorities and bodies 

• 

• 

• 

Codes of conduct and certification as transfer tools 

Art. 48 GDPR together with BTLE ESG 

Art. 50 GDPR together with Cooperation ESG 

•  Guidelines on territorial scope and the interplay with Chapter V of 

the GDPR – interaction with Key Provisions ESG 

• 

Exchange of information on review of BCRs and ad hoc contractual 
clauses according to Art. 64 GDPR

77

EDPB Annual Report 2022IT Users Expert Subgroup (IT-
Users)

Developing and testing IT tools used by the EDPB with a practical focus: 
•  Collecting feedback on the IT system from users 

Key Provisions Expert Subgroup 
(KEYPROV) 

Social Media Expert Subgroup 
(SOCM) 

•  Adapting the systems and manuals 

•  Discussing other business needs including tele- and videoconference 

systems

Guidance  on  core  concepts  and  principles  of  the  GDPR,  including 
Chapters I (e.g. scope, definitions like LSA and large-scale processing) and 
II (main principles); Chapters III (e.g. rights of individuals, transparency), 
IV (e.g. DPO – shared competences with CEH ESG, Enforcement ESG and 
Technology ESG) and IX

•  Analysing social media services, conceived as online platforms that 
focus on enabling the development of networks and communities of 
users, among which information and content is shared and whereby 
additional  functions  provided  by  social  media  services  include 
targeting,  personalisation,  application  integration,  social  plug-ins, 
user authentication, analytics and publishing 

•  Analysing established and emerging functions offered by social media, 
including the underlying processing activities and corresponding risks 
for the rights and freedoms of individuals 

•  Developing guidance, recommendations and best practices in relation 
to both the offer and use of social media functions, in particular for 
economic or political reasons 

•  Providing assistance to other subgroups, in particular by proposing 
strategic priorities in terms of (a) supervision and (b) the development 
of new EDPB guidance or updating of existing WP29 guidance

Strategic Advisory Expert 
Subgroup (SAESG) 

•  Guidance on strategic questions affecting the whole EDPB (including 

the discussion on the strategy and on the work plans of the ESGs) 

•  Clarification of questions that could not be resolved in the ESG

Taskforce on Administrative 
Fines (Fining-TF)

Development of Guidelines on the harmonisation of the calculation of 
fines

78

EDPB Annual Report 2022Technology Expert Subgroup 
(TECH)

•  Technology, 

innovation, 
communication in general 

information  security,  confidentiality  of 

•  ePrivacy, encryption 

•  DPIA and data breach notifications 

•  Emerging  technologies,  innovation  and  other  challenges  related  to 
privacy:  reflecting  on  data  protection  risks  of  future  technological 
developments 

•  Providing input on technology matters relevant to other ESG

79

EDPB Annual Report 2022CONTACT DETAILS

Postal address

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Oﬃce address

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of key EDPB 
activities in 2022, is also available. Further details about the EDPB can be found 
on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

81

EDPB Annual Report 2022