ANNUAL
REPORT
2022

STREAMLINING 
ENFORCEMENT 
THROUGH 
COOPERATION
EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY

1

EDPB Annual Report 2022The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the 
EDPS. A Memorandum of Understanding determines 
the terms of cooperation between the EDPB and the 
EDPS.

INTRODUCTION

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  is  an 
independent  European  body,  established  by  the 
General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR),  which 
aims  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  data 
protection rules across the European Economic Area 
(EEA). It achieves this aim by promoting cooperation 
between national Supervisory Authorities (SAs) and 
issuing  general,  EEA-wide  guidance  regarding  the 
interpretation and application of data protection rules. 

The EDPB comprises the Heads of the EU SAs and 
the  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS).  
The SAs of the EEA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein 
and Norway) are also members of the EDPB, although 
they  do  not  have  the  right  to  vote.  The  European 
Commission and – with regard to GDPR-related matters 
– the European Free Trade Association Surveillance 
Authority have the right to participate in the activities 
and meetings of the EDPB. The EDPB is based in Brussels. 

2

EDPB Annual Report 20221.  2022 – HIGHLIGHTS

1.1.  ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION

 
The EDPB plays a key role in enforcing data protection 
laws. It ensures consistent enforcement and promotes 
enforcement  cooperation  amongst  SAs.  In  2022, 
numerous  initiatives  were  taken  to  streamline 
enforcement cooperation, such as :

• 

• 

• 

A  number  of  taskforces  working  on  key  topics 
with a cross-border dimension; 

22  SAs  undertaking  coordinated  investigations 
into around 100 cloud services used in the public 
sector throughout the EEA; and 

The  creation  of  a  Support  Pool  of  Experts  to 
support and increase SAs’ capacity to supervise, 
investigate and enforce.

In  line  with  the  EDPB’s  2021-2023  Strategy  and 
its  pursuit  of  developing  a  comprehensive  and 
collaborative approach to address issues related to 
GDPR enforcement, the EDPB Members met in Vienna 
in  April  2022  and  reiterated  their  commitment  to 
close cross-border cooperation. A Statement, which 
was  agreed  upon  during  the  meeting,  highlighted 
the  Members’  agreed  action  to  further  enhance 
cooperation on strategic cases and diversify the range 
of cooperation methods used to guarantee the strong 
enforcement of the GDPR.

Additionally, in view of fostering effective interactions 
between SAs, the EDPB and third parties, the EDPB 
adopted Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of 
Art.  60  GDPR.  The  aim  is  to  provide  guidance  on 
terms of cooperation and the One-Stop-Shop (OSS) 
mechanism. In practice, this helps SAs to enact their 
own national procedures in a manner consistent with 
the cooperation under the OSS mechanism.

3

EDPB Annual Report 2022Lastly,  to  harmonise  the  approach  used  by  SAs  in 
calculating fines, the EDPB adopted the first version 
of  Guidelines  04/2022.  Within  the  guidelines, 
the  EDPB  devised  a  systematic  and  chronological  
five-step methodology that SAs across the EEA can use 
for calculating administrative fines for infringements 
of the GDPR. This work contributes to an important 
part of the EDPB’s strategy in creating more efficient 
cooperation among SAs on cross-border cases.

1.2.  DECISION 01/2022 ON THE 

DISPUTE ARISEN ON THE DRAFT 
DECISION OF THE FRENCH 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING ACCOR SA UNDER 
ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR 

In its Decision 01/2022, the EDPB settled a dispute 
regarding a fine against the French hospitality company 
Accor SA. The French Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) 
issued  a  draft  decision  against  Accor  SA  following 
complaints relating to a failure to consider the right 
to object to the receipt of marketing messages by 
mail and/or difficulties encountered in exercising the 
right of access. The EDPB decided that the French 
LSA needed to reassess the elements it relied upon to 
calculate the amount of the fine in order to ensure that 
it meets the criterion of dissuasiveness. As a result, 
the GDPR fine issued to Accor was increased from the 
initial EUR 100,000 imposed by the French LSA to EUR 
500,000 following the EDPB’s binding decision.

1.3.  BINDING DECISION 2/2022 ON 
THE DISPUTE ARISEN ON THE 
DRAFT DECISION OF THE IRISH 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
REGARDING META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED (INSTAGRAM) 
UNDER ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR

The EDPB adopted a binding decision based on Art. 
65(1)(a) GDPR, which sought to address Instagram’s 
policy  of  maintaining  public-by-default  profiles  of 

children and the mandatory public disclosure of their 
contact  details  when  operating  business  accounts. 
The EDPB concluded that Instagram, a unit of Meta 
Platforms  Ireland  Limited  (Meta  IE),  unlawfully 
processed  children’s  personal  data  and  it  further 
instructed the Irish LSA to amend its draft decision by 
including the infringement of Art. 6(1) GDPR.  

Following the EDPB’s binding decision, the Irish LSA 
adopted  its  final  decision  against  Meta  IE.  It  was 
determined that Meta IE had infringed Art. 6(1) GDPR. 
The final fine was the maximum of the EUR 202-405 
million range which was initially envisaged in the draft 
decision.  

Binding Decision 2/2022 constitutes the first EU-wide 
decision on children’s data protection rights, making it 
clear that companies processing children’s data have 
to take special precautions when doing so.

1.4.  BINDING DECISION 3/2022 

ON THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED 
BY THE IRISH SA ON META 
PLATFORMS IRELAND LIMITED 
AND ITS FACEBOOK SERVICE 
(ART. 65 GDPR) AND BINDING 
DECISION 4/2022 ON THE 
DISPUTE SUBMITTED BY THE 
IRISH SA ON META PLATFORMS 
IRELAND LIMITED AND ITS 
INSTAGRAM SERVICE (ART. 65 
GDPR)

The EDPB adopted two binding decisions on the basis 
of  Art.  65(1)(a)  GDPR,  concerning  the  lawfulness 
and  transparency  of  Facebook’s  and  Instagram’s 
processing activities for the purpose of behavioural 
advertising.  The  binding  decisions  were  adopted 
after the Irish SA (acting as LSA) triggered two dispute 
resolution procedures concerning objections raised by 
concerned supervisory authorities (CSAs). 

The EDPB concluded that in both cases, Meta IE lacked 
a legal basis for processing and therefore infringed 
Art. 6(1) GDPR. It instructed the Irish SA to include, 
in its final decisions, an order for Meta IE to bring its 
processing of personal data for behavioural advertising 
in the context of the Facebook and Instagram services 
into  compliance  with  Art.  6(1)  GDPR  within  three 
months.  

Furthermore, regarding sensitive data, it disagreed 
with  the  Irish  SA’s  proposed  conclusion  that  Meta 
IE is not legally obliged to rely on consent to carry 
out  the  processing  activities,  as  this  could  not  be 
categorically concluded without further investigations.  
Therefore, the EDPB decided that the Irish SA must 
carry out a new investigation. In addition, the EDPB 
instructed the Irish SA to include in both final decisions 
a finding of infringement of the principle of fairness 
and adopt appropriate corrective measures. 

With respect to sanctions, the EDPB found that the 
proposed fines did not fulfil the requirement of being 
effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and that an 
administrative fine for the additional infringement of 
Art. 6(1) GDPR should be imposed. This led to the Irish 
SA significantly increasing the fines in its final decisions 
(from a maximum of EUR 36 million and EUR 23 million 
for the Facebook and Instagram draft decisions, to EUR 
210 million and EUR 180 million in the final decisions 
respectively).

1.5.  BINDING DECISION 5/2022 

ON THE DISPUTE SUBMITTED 
BY THE IRISH SA REGARDING 
WHATSAPP IRELAND LIMITED 
(ART. 65 GDPR)

In  December  2022,  the  EDPB  adopted  a  binding 
decision addressing a complaint-based inquiry on the 
lawfulness and fairness of WhatsApp IE’s processing 
for  service  improvement  purposes.  The  EDPB 
concluded that WhatsApp IE inappropriately relied 
on contract as a legal basis to process personal data, 
and thereby infringed Art. 6(1) GDPR. Additionally, the 

EDPB held that WhatsApp IE’s activities violated the 
principle of fairness under Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR. 

The EDPB requested that the Irish SA carries out an 
investigation into WhatsApp IE’s processing operations 
in order to determine whether it processes special 
categories of personal data (Art. 9 GDPR); whether 
it  processes  data  for  the  purposes  of  behavioural 
advertising, for marketing purposes, as well as for the 
provision of metrics to third parties and the exchange 
of data with affiliated companies for the purposes of 
service improvements. 

In  terms  of  the  corrective  measures,  the  EDPB 
requested the Irish SA to include in its final decision 
an order for WhatsApp IE to bring its processing of 
personal data for the purposes of service improvement 
in the context of its Terms of Service into compliance 
with Art. 6(1) GDPR within a specified period of time, 
and to cover the infringements of Art. 6(1) GDPR with 
an administrative fine. 

Finally, EDPB binding decisions are being challenged 
in  Court,  and  the  EDPB  Secretariat  prepares  the 
defence. A CJEU General Court ruling of 7 December 
2022 stated that the action for annulment brought by 
WhatsApp Ireland Ltd (WhatsApp IE) against binding 
decision 01/2021 of the EDPB is inadmissible.

2. EUROPEAN DATA  

PROTECTION BOARD -  
ACTIVITIES IN 2022

To  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR 
across the EEA, the EDPB issues general guidance to 
clarify European data protection laws. In 2022, the 
EDPB adopted 12 guidelines and recommendations 
on topics such as personal data breach notifications, 
codes of conduct as tools for transfers, data subject 
rights,  deceptive  design  patterns,  calculation  of 
administrative  fines  and  practical  implementation 
of amicable settlements. Amongst those guidelines 

EDPB Annual Report 2022and recommendations, the EDPB also adopted two 
documents after public consultation. 

The  EDPB  also  adopted  8  legislative  documents 
addressed  to  the  EU  institutions  or  national 
authorities. This includes 4 joint opinions on EU draft 
legislation, adopted together with the EDPS. 

The  EDPB  issued  consistency  opinions  to  ensure 
the consistent application of the GDPR by national 
SAs. In 2022, this represents 32 opinions under Art. 
64  GDPR.  These  opinions  mainly  concerned  draft 
decisions regarding Binding Corporate Rules and draft 
accreditation requirements of a certification body or a 
code of conduct monitoring body.

3. SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 

ACTIVITIES IN 2022 

National SAs are independent public authorities that 
ensure the consistent application of data protection 
law. They play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ 
data protection rights, especially through exercising 
corrective  powers.  The  EDPB  website  includes  a 
selection of SA supervisory actions relating to GDPR 
enforcement at a national level. 

Additionally, the EDPS maintains a register of decisions 
taken by national SAs in line with the OSS mechanism 
(Art. 60 GDPR). The register is a valuable resource 
to showcase how SAs work together to enforce the 
GDPR. It offers an exceptional opportunity to read final 
decisions taken by, and involving, different SAs relating 
to specific data subject rights. 

The  2022  report  includes  a  thematic  case  digest 
analysing decisions relating to Art. 17 GDPR (right to 
erasure) and Art. 21 GDPR (right to object).

3.1.  CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION

One of the SAs’ tasks is to coordinate decision-making 
in cross-border data processing cases. 

Between  1  January  and  31  December  2022,  there 
were 310 entries in the database, out of which 254 
originated  from  a  complaint,  while  56  had  other 
origins, such as investigations, legal obligations and/or 
media reports. 

The OSS mechanism demands cooperation between 
the LSA and the CSAs. The LSA leads the investigation 
and  plays  a  key  role  in  the  process  of  reaching  a 
consensus between the CSAs, in addition to working 
towards reaching a coordinated decision. Between 1 
January 2022 and 31 December 2022, there were 714 
OSS procedures, which resulted in 330 final decisions. 

The mutual assistance procedure allows SAs to ask 
for information from other SAs or to request other 
measures for effective cooperation, such as requests 
to carry out prior authorisations and consultations, 
inspections  and  investigations.  Between  1  January 
2022 and 31 December 2022, SAs initiated 248 formal 
mutual  assistance  procedures  and  2924  voluntary 
mutual assistance procedures.

4. STAKEHOLDER  
CONSULTATION 

The EDPB conducted the fifth annual survey as part 
of  its  review  of  activities  under  Art.  71(2)  GDPR. 
The survey focused on EDPB’s work and output in 
2022 – particularly its guidelines, joint opinions and 
consultation work – to determine the usefulness of 
its  guidance  for  interpreting  GDPR  provisions  and 
to  identify  better  ways  to  support  organisations 
and individuals in navigating the EU data protection 
framework.  Among  the  individuals  surveyed  were 
privacy  and  IT  experts,  representatives  of  EU  DPO 
organisations, as well as academics and lawyers in the 
field of data protection and privacy rights.

EDPB Annual Report 20225. STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES 

FOR 2023

In  the  coming  year,  the  EDPB  aims  to  take  even 
greater steps toward the completion of key actions 
pertaining  to  the  four  pillars  of  its  2021-2023 
Strategy. This includes: advancing harmonisation and 
facilitating compliance (Pillar 1), supporting effective 
enforcement  and  efficient  cooperation  between 
national  supervisory  authorities  (Pillar  2),  taking  a 
fundamental  rights  approach  to  new  technologies 
(Pillar 3) and ensuring a global dimension (Pillar 4). 
In line with Art. 29 of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, 
the  EDPB  developed,  in  early  February  2023,  its  
two-year work programme for 2023 and 2024, based 
on the EDPB Strategy and the needs identified by the 
members as a priority for stakeholders.

EDPB Annual Report 2022CONTACT DETAILS

Postal address

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Oﬃce address

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

8

EDPB Annual Report 2022