ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE OFFICE OF THE DATA
PROTECTION OMBUDSMAN 2022

ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE OFFICE OF THE DATA
PROTECTION OMBUDSMAN 2022

Contents
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman safeguards the rights
and freedoms of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.................... 4
Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus –
Trust is crucial in the data economy...................................................................................... 6
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa:
Children’s data protection, patient and client data processing
and other public-sector data protection issues ................................................................... 9
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman Annina Hautala:
A diverse data protection year in security and the judicial administration ...................... 12
Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s year 2022 in figures.................................... 14
Focus areas of data protection activities............................................................................ 16
Sanctions Board: Administrative fines for violations of
data protection legislation........................................................................................ 16
Renewed strategy, closer European cooperation ................................................... 18
Backlog clearing and new processes...................................................................... 19
Continued increase in personal data breach notifications..................................... 20
Processing cross-border matters............................................................................ 21
Projects to support controllers................................................................................ 23
International transfers of data and cloud services................................................. 24
Auditing activities...................................................................................................... 26
Personnel and finances – reform of the organisation launched....................................... 27
Focus areas for 2023 and future developments................................................................. 29
Matters instituted and processed from 2020 to 2022....................................................... 31

3

The Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman
safeguards the rights
and freedoms of
individuals with regard
to the processing of
personal data
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

data protection authorities of other countries

is an autonomous and independent authority

and represents Finland on the European Data

that supervises compliance with data protection

Protection Board (EDPB).

legislation and other laws governing the
processing of personal data.

In 2022, Anu Talus served as Data Protection
Ombudsman and Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa as

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman. Jari

promotes awareness of the rights, duties and

Råman served as the second Deputy Data

opportunities related to the processing of

Protection Ombudsman until May 2022. Master

personal data. The duties of the Office of the

of Laws Annina Hautala took up the position

Data Protection Ombudsman include conducting

of Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman in

studies and inspections, issuing statements

September.

on legislative and administrative reforms and
imposing sanctions for violations of the General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The Data
Protection Ombudsman cooperates with the

4

Societal objectives
of the Office of the
Data Protection
Ombudsman
▪ We promote and safeguard the

opportunities of people, companies and
communities in a digitalising society.

▪ Our European cooperation is a resource
for Finnish data protection.

Mission
The Office of the
Data Protection
Ombudsman is an
active proponent for
responsibility in
the digital
environment

▪ We safeguard the implementation of data
protection in administrative reform and
digitalisation projects.

▪ We ensure that potential data protection
impact is taken comprehensively into
account in law drafting.

5

Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus –

Trust is crucial in the
data economy
The significance of digitisation, the data

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman.

economy and information security were major

During the year, the sanctions board issued

themes in a seminar on the future arranged

five decisions imposing administrative fines

by the Ministry of Finance Ministerial Working

ranging from EUR 8,300 to EUR 750,000. None

Group on Developing the Digital Transformation,

of the decisions made by the sanctions board

the Data Economy and Public Administration in

were appealed to the Administrative Court.

the spring of 2023. The next trend was said to

This was not the case with the first decisions

be trust. There is a name for such trust: data

of the sanctions board, which were regularly

protection. A fundamental right upon which the

appealed regardless of the amount of the

European data economy is being built.

administrative fine. This change may be partly
due to the fact that the Administrative Court has

You could probably call 2022 a year of

confirmed that in terms of procedural issues, the

establishment. Meanwhile, the past year was

practices of the Office of the Data Protection

also marked by reforms and development.

Ombudsman are in line with the legislative

This is also a well-established phenomenon –

requirements. In addition, the administrative

evolving technology and legislation to respond to

fine is no longer a new sanction, and there is

the changes keep data protection in a constant

an established practice for the size of the fine

state of flux. A data protection specialist is

and an understanding of the pan-European level.

always facing something new.

Examples of cases where administrative fines
were imposed included ones where there were

The first sign of levelling off is the number of

deficiencies concerning the core business of

matters instituted at the Office of the Data

the controller, where internal procedures were

Protection Ombudsman. For the third year in

not appropriate or where cooperation with the

a row, some 11,000 matters were instituted.

authority had been avoided.

The stabilised volume also makes it easier to
organise the work at the office.

Other decisions worth mentioning include a
decision by the Finnish Tax Administration on

6

Another development that illustrates the

too extensive collection of data, a decision

establishment of the activities involves

by the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

decisions made by the sanctions board of the

which stated that the data subject’s right to

inspect is not a means for an authority to obtain

Over the past year, the EDPB’s dispute

information, and a decision by the Deputy Data

resolution procedure also adopted its place as

Protection Ombudsman which stated that the

a well-established form of cooperation between

location data feature cannot be automatically

supervisory authorities. The EDPB issued five

switched on in an employee’s work device.

dispute resolution decisions over the course of
the year, one of which concerned the processing

Questions on international transfer of personal

of children’s personal data by Meta (Instagram),

data also seem to be a well-established topic.

which lacked an adequate legal base. Following

The coordinated action of the European Data

the decision of the Board, the Irish supervisory

Protection Board in 2022 focused on the use

authority imposed an administrative fine of EUR

of cloud-based services in the public sector.

405 million on Meta. The EDPB also issued a

Meanwhile, several member states are dealing

series of rulings on the legal base for the targeting

with “101 Dalmatians” complaints, where the

of advertisements, which concerned Instagram,

core issue is the same – data transfer to third

WhatsApp and Facebook.

countries. A decision by the Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman worth mentioning in

The roll-out of the new strategy of the Office of the

this context is a decision of the Deputy Data

Data Protection Ombudsman, finalised in 2022,

Protection Ombudsman on the Helmet libraries,

was started. Focus areas include cooperation in

which concerned the use of Google Analytics

the EU, customer orientation, cooperation with

and also dealt with data transfer. Boosted by

stakeholders and wellbeing at work. A new vision

President Biden’s visit to Europe in the spring,

was simultaneously created. The composition

the US data adequacy decision moved forward

of the office was renewed in the autumn when

and the European Commission published its

Annina Hautala started in her position as the new

draft adequacy decision in mid-December.

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman.

The Data Protection Board gave its opinion
on the matter in early 2023. The topic will

A two-year project to create a tool for SMEs

certainly continue to be a central theme in

was completed, and the tool was published

data protection forums.

for everyone to use and develop further. A new
similar project funded by the Commission was

In addition to international data transfer, AI will

also launched. The new project aims to improve

probably come to the fore in the coming years,

the data protection of children.

with related legislative projects being launched
at both national and EU level. Legislative

Old dormant practices from the COVID-19 period

amendments adopted by Parliament have

were also revived. The regular meeting of the

already set the framework for automated

Nordic supervisory authorities took place in

decision-making in an authority’s decision-

Helsinki this time. Throughout its history, one

making process. This is a trend that I hope

of the criteria for selecting the location of the

we can also utilise in our own operations.

meeting has been proximity to a body of water.

The screening process for pending matters

Nordic meetings of supervisory authorities have

introduced last year would provide a good

been held since 1988, but there was a break due

basis for this.

to COVID-19.

7

Many of the themes featured over the past year will
become more significant in 2023. In the spring of
2022, the European Data Protection Board met in
Vienna to discuss the improvement of its working
practices. A joint statement by the supervisory
authorities emphasised the importance of
closer cooperation. The meeting prompted the
Commission to adopt regulations complementing
the General Data Protection Regulation. The
focus is on streamlining cooperation between
the supervisory authorities. Joint coordinated
actions by the supervisory authorities as a form
of cooperation were established, for example.
The second coordinated action to investigate
the current position of Data Protection Officers
started in early 2023.
The Commission’s package of data regulations
will have a significant impact both in 2023 and
beyond. The Commission aims to give a boost
to the digital single market. Everything is built
on trust, with people at the centre. The key
to successful implementation is making the
responsibilities of the supervisory authorities
clear. The powers of the authority were also one
of the focus areas for the Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman in 2022. The impact
of both the renewed data regulation and the
measures to streamline operations will therefore
be felt in the coming years.

8

Anu Talus
Data Protection Ombudsman

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman
Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa:

Children’s data
protection, patient
and client data
processing and other
public-sector data
protection issues
Like the previous year, 2022 was an extremely

data, tracking technologies used on websites

busy data protection year. In my remit, which

and the lawful processing of health data came

mainly concerns data protection issues related

up during the year.

to the public sector and issues processed at
the national level, such as data protection

As in previous years, social welfare and health

questions related to social welfare and health

care matters were quantitatively the largest

care services, the education sector and the

category of matters instituted with the Office of

application of the Act on the Protection of

the Data Protection Ombudsman in 2022. The

Privacy in Working Life, we processed matters

most common matters instituted with the Office

involving the exercise of the rights of the

were personal data breach notifications and

data subject, data protection notifications

matters involving the exercise of the statutory

filed by controllers and requests for prior

rights of the data subject, such as requests

consultations. Questions involving matters

concerning the right of access and right to

such as the processing of children’s personal

erasure.

9

instructions of personal data breach notifications,

Help is on the way for
questions concerning
the processing of
children and young
people’s personal
data, especially in
the context of leisure
activities.

first issued in 2021, were also updated with new
examples on the Office of the Data Protection
Ombudsman’s website.
The transfer of student welfare services to the
wellbeing services counties brought to light new
data protection issues. Those working in the
multi-sector field of student welfare are frequently
faced with questions involving the disclosure of
personal data. These questions also play a key
role in the development of information systems
in the education sector and wellbeing services
counties. As clarification and instructions are
needed to secure both the wellbeing of children
and young people and multi-sector cooperation,
we made a proposal to the Ministry of Education
and Culture, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health,
Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare and
National Board of Education for clarifying the
criteria for disclosing data and issuing national
instructions on the subject. We gave several

Due to the purpose of the data, orders to rectify

statements on reforms related to early childhood

or erase patient data or social welfare client

education and care and the education sector

data are in practice issued very seldom. Erasing

in 2022.

all patient data or social welfare client data is
practically impossible; for example, the erasure

In late 2022, a decision of the Deputy Data

of diagnoses made by a health care professional

Protection Ombudsman addressed the use

cannot be ordered.

of tracking technologies on an authority’s
website. As a rule, people should be able to use

10

As a regulated sector, there is a clear need for

official online services without having data on

official guidance in the social welfare and health

their website visit end up in commercial use,

care sector. We accordingly published a guide

for example. The use of tracking technologies

for the processing of social welfare client data

must not convey the data subjects’ personal

in the autumn of 2022 to support controllers in

data unlawfully to third parties. Neither may

their work. The guide explains matters such as

personal data be transferred unlawfully to the

the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s

United States. The decision concerned the use

established decision-making practice. The

of analytics tools such as Google Analytics.

In the field of data protection in working life,
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s
Sanctions Board dealt with a matter involving
the processing of employees’ health data. The
Sanctions Board imposed an administrative
fine on a controller that had unlawfully stored
its employees’ health data in an HR system
and neglected to inform its employees of the
processing of their personal data.
Help is on the way for questions concerning
the processing of children and young people’s
personal data, especially in the context of leisure
activities. The two-year GDPR4CHRN project,
implemented with TIEKE Finnish Information
Society Development Centre and focusing on the
promotion of children and young people’s data
protection in leisure activities, was launched in
the autumn of 2022. The project is funded by the
European Commission, and its primary aim is to
provide information on the processing of personal
data to associations that organise leisure and
hobby activities for children.
Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

11

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman
Annina Hautala:

A diverse data
protection year in
security and the judicial
administration
I took up the post of Deputy Data Protection

were also heard on a wide range of other subjects,

Ombudsman in September 2022. For my part,

including the proposed reform of emergency

the final months of the year were mostly spent on

response centre legislation and the government

getting to know my new position and the Office,

proposal concerning personal identity codes and

as well as familiarising myself with my duties

the procedures for issuing them.

and team. This was made much easier by the
professionalism and experience of my colleagues.

With regard to new technologies, our statements
and hearings on the government proposal

In my position, I took up the management of

for a digital identity card and the government

the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s

proposal for automated decision-making in public

customer service team, which mainly deals with

administration merit a special mention. We should

data protection issues in the security and judicial

keep in mind that data protection requirements are

administration. As a special feature of the position,

technology-neutral. Regarding data protection in

application of the Law Enforcement Directive

automated decision-making, we had to remind the

and its national implementing act, the Act on the

legislator especially that data protection legislation

Processing of Personal Data in Criminal Matters

requires that data subjects be informed in a timely

and in Connection with Maintaining National

manner and gives them the right to object to being

Security, play a significant role in my duties.

subjected to automated decision-making. The
discussion on data protection related to artificial

12

As the year drew to a close, more and more of my

intelligence solutions and automated decision-

unit’s time was spent on parliamentary committee

making will continue, as I feel it should, since these

hearings and the preparation of statements on

technologies are advancing at a considerable pace

legislation. We were consulted on, for example, the

and creating new opportunities, but also risks in

government report on intelligence legislation. We

terms of data protection.

As in previous years, our data protection

is directed at a personal data filing system. When

enforcement activities included planned audits

considering such a case, the court must give the

of controllers. This year, these audits focused

Data Protection Ombudsman an opportunity to

on the internal security sector. This focus was

be heard.

justified by the data subjects’ limited opportunities
to monitor the processing of their personal data in

In 2022, the corrective powers of the Data

this sector themselves. The audit plan also took

Protection Ombudsman were exercised on three

into account the monitoring and audits of EU

occasions in the security and judicial sector. In

information systems related to internal security in

this review, I would like to highlight the decision

accordance with the special regulations concerning

issued in February 2022, the principal message of

them.

which was that a controller cannot use the data
subject’s exercise of their right of access as an

Participation in the work of the European Data

information-gathering tool for the authority. The

Protection Board’s subgroups as well as the

decision issued a reprimand to the controller and

work of joint monitoring groups on the Schengen

ordered it to cease its practices for checking the

Information System (SIS II), the European Asylum

criminal records of foster parent applicants, which

Dactyloscopy Database (Eurodac) and the central

were in violation of the GDPR.

EU Visa Information System (VIS) were key parts
of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s

There have been changes in the security and

international cooperation.

judicial administration sector in the past year,
and data protection practices need to be updated

The audits conducted in 2022 showed that

accordingly. These will not be the last changes

controllers have taken the observations made

going forward. The overall environment is

in previous audit reports seriously and rectified

influenced by the war in Ukraine, technological

shortcomings. Guidance was given to controllers

advances and Finland’s internal security situation.

and development needs pointed out based on

The current situation serves as a powerful reminder

the audits. The largest audits conducted in 2022

of the significance of data protection.

included those of the Visa Information System
and Schengen Information System.
We made two audit visits to the Finnish Security
Intelligence Service to inspect the lawfulness
of their processing of personal data based on
requests made by data subjects and discuss
current issues.
Our unit also worked on the statements requested
from the Data Protection Ombudsman for the
consideration of charges. The Office issued such
statements in 37 cases in 2022. The prosecutor is
required to hear the Data Protection Ombudsman
before bringing charges for offences such as a
secrecy offence, a violation of the secrecy of
communications, unlawful access to an information
system, or a data protection offence, if the offence

Annina Hautala
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

13

Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman’s
year 2022 in figures

14

15

Focus areas of data
protection activities
Sanctions Board: Administrative fines for
violations of data protection legislation
The sanctions board of the Office of the Data

Administrative fines were imposed on five

Protection Ombudsman is tasked with matters

organisations. In particular, the violations leading

involving the imposition of administrative fines

to administrative fines concerned issues with

under the General Data Protection Regulation on

fulfilling the rights of the data subject and

controllers or processors. The Sanctions Board

inadequate procedures for processing health

is made up of the Data Protection Ombudsman

data. The first administrative fine for non-

and two Deputy Data Protection Ombudsmen.

compliance with an earlier order issued by the

The Board is chaired by the Data Protection

Data Protection Ombudsman was issued in the

Ombudsman. In 2020–2022, the Sanctions Board

spring of 2022. The administrative fines ranged

has imposed a total of 17 administrative fines

from 8,300 to 750,000 euros.

for violations of the EU General Data Protection
Regulation.

Two cases were processed in the cross-border
cooperation mechanism with the Office of

Administrative fines are one of the corrective

the Data Protection Ombudsman as the lead

powers available to the Office of the Data

supervisory authority. The decisions are binding

Protection Ombudsman. An administrative

on the supervisory authorities that participated

fine can be imposed in addition or instead of

in the processing of the cases.

other corrective measures and is limited to a
maximum of 4% of the company’s turnover or
EUR 20 million. Administrative fines cannot be
imposed on public organisations, such as the
central government and state-owned companies,
municipalities or parishes. An administrative fine
must be dissuasive, effective and proportionate.

16

In 2022, the Sanctions Board imposed administrative fines on five
organisations for violations of data protection legislation.

▪ The Sanctions Board imposed an

administrative fine of 750,000 euros on

▪ The Sanctions Board issued an

administrative fine of 230,000 euros on

Alektum Oy for serious data protection

Viking Line for the unlawful processing

violations. The company had regularly

of employee health data. Among other

neglected to respond to data subjects’

things, the company had stored its

requests concerning their data protection

employees’ health data unlawfully in

rights. Neither had the company complied

an HR system. Furthermore, some of

with its duty to cooperate with the

the diagnosis information stored in the

supervisory authority.

system was inaccurate, and the data

▪ An administrative fine of 8,300 euros
was imposed on a telemarketing

company for failing to comply with the
Data Protection Ombudsman’s earlier
order regarding the fulfilment of a data
subject’s right of access. The Data
Protection Ombudsman had ordered the

had been stored for a considerable
time. Shortcomings were also found
in how the company informed its
employees of the processing of their
personal data.

▪ An administrative fine of 122,000 euros
was imposed on a company that had

company to fulfil a customer’s request

processed health data without the

to access the recording of a sales call

required consent. The company had

made to the customer. This was the first

not requested specific consent for the

administrative fine ever imposed for non-

processing of types of personal data

compliance with an order of the Office of

concerning health from its users. An

the Data Protection Ombudsman.

administrative fine was imposed for the

▪ A publishing company was given an

administrative fine of 85,000 euros for
shortcomings in the implementation of

violations, because the processing of
health data was part of the company’s
core business.

data protection rights involving emails.
Some of the data subjects’ requests
for access and erasure had been left
unfulfilled due to technical problems in
email forwarding. The company should
have ensured that the inbox was tested,
as it was the primary means of contacting
the company in data protection matters.

17

Renewed strategy,
closer European cooperation
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

agreed on the implementation of joint inspection

renewed its strategy for 2022–2025 by defining

measures, the setting of annual priorities at the

strategic focus areas, a vision and a mission for

European level, and on improving the efficiency

its operations.

of cross-border exchanges of information. The
authorities also agreed on closer cooperation

Customer

orientation,

cooperation

with

stakeholders, European cooperation and wellbeing

in strategically significant cross-border cases
between Member States.

at work were chosen as the strategic focus areas.
The new vision of the Office of the Data Protection

The joint goal of the European Data Protection

Ombudsman emphasises the Office’s role as an

Board is to further harmonise the Member

active proponent for responsibility in the digital

States’ interpretation of legislation and establish

environment.

the powers introduced by the enforcement
and supervision of EU’s new data protection

The predictability and transparency of the Office

regulations. In October, the European Data

of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s operations

Protection Board delivered to the Commission a

and decisions are key focus areas for this

summary of administrative procedures that should

strategy period. The Office will seek to reinforce

be harmonised according to the Board.

its cooperation with select stakeholders and clarify
the purposes and goals of stakeholder relations.
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

Nordic data protection authorities
met in Helsinki

aims to be a pleasant and motivational workplace
that attracts and retains the best experts in data

The data protection authorities of the Nordic

protection.

countries met in Helsinki in October 2022. At the
meeting, the data protection authorities of Finland,

In this strategy period, the Office of the Data

Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Åland and the

Protection Ombudsman will also uphold its close

Faeroe Islands discussed Nordic cooperation and

relations with other European data protection

current phenomena in data protection.

actors. The Office will strive to advance important
issues effectively in European processes.

Closer cooperation between data
protection authorities in the EEA

The data protection authorities agreed on closer
practical cooperation through sharing information
and best practices, for example in the areas of
children’s online gaming, publicity legislation, case
processing and the European health data space. In

18

In April 2022, the data protection authorities of the

their resolution issued at the end of the meeting,

EU and EEA issued a joint statement that national

the data protection authorities stressed that the

data protection authorities were reinforcing

enforcement of data protection regulations should

their cooperation in the implementation of the

not be fragmented as a result of the EU Digital

GDPR. The statement presented the key goals

Services package. The authorities also called for

and measures for more effective cooperation.

sufficient resourcing should the duties of the data

Among other things, the data protection authorities

protection authorities be increased.

Backlog clearing and
new processes
The number of cases processed by the Office

Cross-border cases whose processing depends

of the Data Protection Ombudsman grew for a

on another supervisory authority in the EEA

long time after the entry into force of the General

constitute a significant percentage of the older

Data Protection Regulation. In recent years, the

unresolved cases.

number of cases instituted annually has stabilised
at around 11,000. A total of 11,095 cases were

The Office developed its internal procedures

instituted with the Office in 2022. The number of

during the year in order to improve the efficiency

cases resolved exceeded the number of instituted

of processing. A new screening process was

cases by 774, i.e. roughly 11,870 cases were

adopted for cases involving the rights of the

resolved during the year.

data subject. This screening was piloted in cases
related to the health care sector, and the Office

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

is currently evaluating the application of this

has been systematically clearing its backlog

model to other sectors as well.

of cases since 2020, and this project also
progressed in 2022. The original objective of the

The use of the prioritisation and screening

backlog-clearing project was to clear the jam of

procedure (PRISE) adopted last year and the

unresolved cases instituted in 2014–2018. Since

screening process for personal data breach

then, this backlog clearing has been extended to

notifications became established practice. The

all cases instituted with the Office.

personal data breach notification screening
process has been found to improve the efficiency

At the end of 2022, there were approximately

of notification processing by a significant degree.

900 unresolved cases instituted in 2018–2020

In 2022, nearly half of all cases instituted with the

that had been pending for more than two years.

Office were personal data breach notifications.

19

Continued increase in personal data
breach notifications
Personal data breach notifications constitute the

health care provider had notified the Office of the

largest single category of cases instituted with

Data Protection Ombudsman of a personal data

the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman.

breach in which a computer case containing a

If a personal data breach can cause a risk to

laptop, some paper documents and two external

the people affected by it, the Office of the Data

hard drives had been stolen. The stolen devices

Protection Ombudsman must be notified.

contained the health and insurance data of clients,
among other things. Securing the personal data

A total of 5,445 data breach notifications were

stored on the laptop with a simple password was

filed with the Office of the Data Protection

an inadequate safeguard, and the data could

Ombudsman during the year, representing an

have been encrypted with a variety of encryption

increase of more than 660 from the previous year.

software, for example.

The numbers of reported data breaches have
increased annually and constituted nearly 50%

Organisational preparedness for personal data

of cases instituted. The most notifications are

breaches is an important aspect of data security

received from regulated sectors, such as social

management and preparing for cyber incidents.

welfare and health care, the financial sector and

Cyber incidents can involve a risk of serious

the telecommunications sector.

personal data breaches or leaks. As part of their
preparations for such incidents, organisations

The Office continued to employ the personal

should ensure that, for example, system security

data breach notification screening procedure

and the notification and documentation practices

adopted in the previous year. The procedure has

for personal data breaches are in order. In terms of

improved the efficiency and speed of notification

the technical security of personal data processing,

processing and evaluation.

the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman
underlines the importance of keeping software

In the autumn, the Deputy Data Protection

updated, access control and the adequate

Ombudsman issued a reprimand to a health care

monitoring and logging of information systems.

provider for inadequate security measures. The
The secure processing of personal data was very
much on the general government agenda in 2022.

The Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman
received 5,445
personal data breach
notifications in 2022.

The Information Management Board published
the Assessment criteria for information security
in public administration (Julkri) in the spring of
2022. The Information Management Board’s data
security section drew up the criteria in cooperation
with the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman.
This is the first edition of the criteria to include a
dedicated section on data protection. Use of the
criteria supports organisations in the planning,
implementation and evaluation of information
security and the protection of personal data.

20

Processing cross-border matters
Cross-border processing refers to the processing
of personal data

▪ performed in offices located in more than
one Member State or by a controller or

processor established in more than one
Member State; or

▪ performed in the EU in the controller’s
or processor’s only office, but the

processing has a significant impact on
data subjects in more than one Member
State.

In 2022, the Office of
the Data Protection
Ombudsman was
designated as the lead
supervisory authority
in 18 cases and as a
supervisory authority
concerned in 112 cases.

When the processing of personal data crosses
borders, the European data protection authorities
monitor the processing of personal data in
cooperation. A supervisory authority with overall
responsibility for the processing is appointed and
works together with the supervisory authorities
participating in the processing of the matter.

led the investigation because the company’s

The purpose of the cooperation procedure is to

Finnish office is responsible for the processing of

achieve a binding common decision by the leading

personal data. One of the complaints against the

and participating authorities, as well as to ensure

company had been instituted in another Member

the consistent application of the GDPR across

State.

Member States. The European Data Protection
Board publishes a register of joint decisions

In February, the European data protection

taken by data protection authorities.

authorities ruled that use of the Google Analytics
service on a website is a violation of the GDPR.

During the year, the Office of the Data Protection

The decision was issued by the lead supervisory

Ombudsman issued two decisions in cross-border

authority in the case, the French supervisory

cases in which it served as the lead supervisory

authority CNIL. According to the decision, the

authority. The case concerning Viking Line was

safeguards adopted by Google for the transfer

resolved in cooperation with the Swedish, Estonian

of personal data via Google Analytics were

and Norwegian supervisory authorities. The other

inadequate.

case, related to a company that had processed
health data without the appropriate consent,

A decision concerning Interactive Advertising

was processed in cooperation between several

Bureau Europe (IAB Europe), issued by the Belgian

Member States, since the service is available

supervisory authority, found that IAB Europe

in a number of countries in the EU and EEA.

was responsible for non-compliance with the

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

GDPR. The decision, made in the data protection

21

Ireland Limited in dispute-resolution proceedings

The Office of the
Data Protection
Ombudsman issued
a total of three
objections to draft
decisions by leading
supervisory authorities
in cross-border cases
during the year.

in 2022. Based on the EDPB’s dispute resolution
decision, the Irish data protection authority
imposed an administrative fine of 405 million
euros on Meta in September for data protection
violations in the processing of children’s personal
data on Instagram. The EDPB found that Meta was
processing children’s personal data unlawfully,
without an applicable basis for processing.
In December, the EDPB issued decisions on
the processing of personal data on Facebook,
Instagram and WhatsApp.
The EDPB found that Meta did not have a lawful
basis for processing personal data for behavioural
advertising purposes on Facebook and Instagram.
Using a contract as the legal basis for processing
was not appropriate in connection with terms of
service, since behavioural advertising is not part
of these companies’ core functions. In its decision
based on the EDPB’s decisions, the Irish data
protection authority imposed 390 million euros

authorities’ cooperation mechanism, found

in administrative fines on Meta. These decisions

that the Transparency & Consent Framework

will have a far-reaching impact on the use of

mechanism developed by IAB Europe did not meet

personal data for behavioural advertising at large.

the requirements of data protection regulations.
With regard to WhatsApp, the EDPB found that
During the year, the Office created new practices

a contract was not a lawful basis for processing

for the processing of cross-border cases. The

personal data for the purpose of developing

new processes clarified questions such as

WhatsApp’s service. Based on this dispute

which factors the Office of the Data Protection

resolution decision, the Irish data protection

Ombudsman is required to take into account

authority imposed an administrative fine of 5.5

when processing a case as the lead supervisory

million euros on Meta.

authority, and how objections made against a
draft decision will be taken into account in the

In March, the EDPB adopted a new guideline for

decision. The procedure concerning objections

the application of Article 60 of the GDPR. The

made against draft decisions issued by other

Article provides for cooperation between the

supervisory authorities was also developed.

lead supervisory authority and other supervisory
authorities concerned. This guideline was put

22

The European Data Protection Board issued

into practice at the Office with staff workshops,

several decisions concerning Meta Platforms

for example.

Projects to support controllers
The GDPR2DSM project supported
SMEs in acquiring data protection
expertise

granted funding to the Office of the Data Protection
Ombudsman and TIEKE Finnish Information Society
Development Centre for a new project promoting
the data protection of children and young people.

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s
and TIEKE Finnish Information Society Development

GDPR4CHLDRN – Ensuring data protection in

Centre’s two-year, EU-funded GDPR2DSM project

hobbies is a two-year project aimed at improving

continued in 2022. The project supported

the data protection competence of children and

microenterprises and SMEs in fulfilling data

young people aged 13–17, their parents and clubs

protection requirements and produced information

and associations that organise hobby and leisure

and tools for ensuring data protection in companies.

activities for them. To achieve this objective, the
project will draw up practical written materials

The online tool developed in the project was

and icons illustrating data protection concepts

launched on International Data Protection Day

for various target groups and organise webinars

in January. Companies can use the tool to test

and training sessions.

whether their operations meet data protection
requirements, determine their role in processing

The project seeks to promote the realisation of

personal data and improve their data protection

data protection for children and young people,

competence. In addition to the tool, other information

as well as inform children and young people

related to data protection was also compiled on

of ways of protecting and managing their own

the tietosuojaapkyrityksille.fi website to support

personal data. The goal is that, in future, clubs and

SMEs. The source code and contents of the data

associations would be able to resolve issues related

protection tool were published for free use and

to compliance with data protection legislation in

further development.

their activities more independently. The children
and young people and their parents, on the other

In the spring, the project organised four regional

hand, will learn more about data protection rights

data protection conferences in Oulu, Jyväskylä,

and the protection of personal data.

Tampere and Turku, respectively. The project also
hosted webinars in the spring and summer. The

The project was launched in August 2022, and

project’s final conference was held in Helsinki in

cooperation with the Guides and Scouts of Finland,

September, with the theme of developing the data

Football Association of Finland and Finnish Olympic

protection competence of SMEs in a changing

Committee and the clubs and associations under

business environment. The project was funded by the

these umbrella organisations began in September.

Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values EU programme.

The first public webinar was held in October, and

GDPR4CHLDRN project improves
data protection awareness in
hobby activities for children
and young people

a survey charting the data protection competence
and views on the processing of personal data in
hobby activities of children and young people, their
parents and the staff of clubs and associations
was conducted in November. In 2023, the project
will continue with the preparation of materials and

In the summer of 2022, the European Union’s

workshops for clubs and associations. The project

Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values programme

will conclude in August 2024.

23

International transfers of data
and cloud services
When personal data is transferred outside the

Ombudsman issued a decision addressing the

European Economic Area or to an international

use of tracking technologies on an authority’s

organisation, the level of protection for personal

website. The cities of Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa ja

data may not correspond to the requirements of

Kauniainen were issued a reprimand, since the

the EU General Data Protection Regulation. For

website of libraries in the Helmet network had

this reason, a number of bases for transferring

employed tracking technologies that may have

personal data have been specified in the GDPR,

conveyed data on, for example, the searches

which can be used to transfer personal data

made by users to third parties. Appropriate basis

while guaranteeing a level of data protection

for the transfer of personal data had not been

corresponding to EU requirements.

defined. The Helmet.fi website used services
such as the Google Analytics tool and Google

Various enforcement measures involving data

Tag Manager service.

transfers and cloud services were implemented
during the year at both the national and European

The Legal Register Centre instituted a request for

levels.

a prior consultation with the Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman, since it had been unable

Together with 22 data protection authorities and

to sufficiently mitigate the risks involved in the

the European Data Protection Supervisor, the

processing activities related to a planned intranet

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman took

solution for its agencies. The Data Protection

part in the European Data Protection Board’s first

Ombudsman cautioned the Legal Register

coordinated measure, which examined the use

Centre that its planned processing activities were

of cloud services in public-sector organisations.

probably in violation of the GDPR. Among other

The supervisory authorities investigated the

things, the risks involved the transfer of data to

challenges cloud services pose for compliance

authorities in third countries due to their right of

with the GDPR. The measure was launched

access to information.

with a common survey for the organisations
in September. The investigation targeted

The ‘Schrems II’ judgment issued by the Court

approximately a hundred organisations in sectors

of Justice of the European Union in July 2020

such as health care, finance, taxation, education

(C-311/18) clarified the requirements for the

and IT services. The Office of the Data Protection

legal transfer of personal data from EU and EEA

Ombudsman investigated the operations of three

Member States to third countries or international

public-sector organisations in Finland.

organisations. Before personal data can be
transferred out of the EEA, the controller or

24

In 2022, the Office of the Data Protection

processor must verify on a case-by-case basis

Ombudsman issued its first decisions setting

whether an adequate level of data protection

precedents for international transfers of data.

is guaranteed for the personal data being

In December, the Deputy Data Protection

transferred.

In March, the European Commission and the
United States came to an agreement on the
creation of a new data protection framework
between the EU and the United States. The new
Data Privacy Framework is intended to replace
the Privacy Shield arrangement annulled by the
Schrems II judgment. The letter of intent on the
Data Privacy Framework was implemented in US
legislation by an implementation order issued
by the President of the United States in October
and a supplementary regulation concerning the

A joint measure of
the European data
protection authorities
examined the use of
cloud services in the
public sector.

court of appeal. The European Commission then
issued a draft decision on the adequacy of data
protection and submitted it to the European Data
Protection Board for evaluation. An adequacy
decision would permit the transfer of data from
the EU and EEA to participating US companies in
certain sectors without additional safeguards.
The guidelines for international transfers of data
were supplemented in 2022 by an EDPB draft
guideline on certifications as a data transfer tool.

25

Auditing activities
In 2022, the Office of the Data Protection
Ombudsman continued its systematic auditing
activities, with a particular focus on internal
security authorities.
The regulations on the Visa Information System
and Schengen Information System stipulate that
the supervisory authority must ensure that data

The Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman
conducted 4 audits and
audit entities in 2022

processing in national systems is audited at least
every four years in accordance with the appropriate
international audit practices. Comprehensive
audits of the technical environments and legal
aspects of these systems were conducted in 2022.
These audits were complex entities consisting
of several parts. The audit results will be used
to provide guidance to controllers and highlight
development needs in their operations.

Audits of the National Police Board and National
Bureau of Investigation’s Financial Intelligence

26

The use of data in the EURODAC system for law

Unit were also initiated, focusing on transfers of

enforcement purposes was audited in accordance

personal data to third countries and international

with the EURODAC regulation. The EURODAC

organisations. We made two inspection visits to

system processes the fingerprints of asylum

the Finnish Security Intelligence Service to inspect

seekers and third-country nationals and stateless

the lawfulness of their processing of personal

individuals apprehended in connection with illegal

data based on requests made by data subjects

border crossings.

and discuss current issues.

Personnel
and finances

– reform of the organisation launched
The number of personnel employed by the

Development needs were identified in the Office

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s strategy

remained fairly stable from the previous year

work. The Office will seek to address these

at approximately 50 employees in 2022. A total

with reforms to its organisational structure and

of 51 people were employed by the Office of

work arrangements. The reform was begun in

the Data Protection Ombudsman at the end of

late 2022 and will continue in 2023. The new

the year. Master of Laws Annina Hautala was

organisation consists of a private-sector guidance

appointed Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

and enforcement unit, public-sector guidance

and started work in September 2022.

and enforcement unit, administrative unit and
general staff.

Three customer service teams operated in the
Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman in

The improvement of internal information

2022. One of them focused mainly on the private

management has been defined as the Office’s

sector and cross-border matters, the second

key goal for the next few years. In 2022, the

on the public sector and international matters

Office launched a deployment project for the

and the third on matters related to the Data

judicial administration agencies’ shared case

Protection Law Enforcement Directive and the Act

management system.

on the Processing of Personal Data in Criminal
Matters and in Connection with Maintaining

The backlog-clearance project initiated at the

National Security. The Joint Functions team

beginning of 2020 was still reflected in the duties

comprised IT senior specialists, communications

of personnel. More resources have been allocated

and the Data Protection Officer. The Office’s

to the processing of pending cases.

administrative, advisory and registry services
have been centralised in the Administrative
Unit. In addition, separate development teams
coordinate practices and projects related to
certain types of cases, such as personal data
breaches, the rights of the data subject and
cross-border cases.

27

Human resources*

2020

2021

2022

48

55

54

Person years

45.6

49.1

51.9

Absences due to illness, day(s) per person years

10.7

10.4

13.2

Average age

39.9

40.3

39.3

Education index

6.3

6.2

6.4

Number of personnel at the end of the year

* These figures include the personnel of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman and the Office of the
Intelligence Ombudsman (3 persons). The Intelligence Ombudsman shares administrative functions with the Office
of the Data Protection Ombudsman.

Finances of the Office of
the Data Protection Ombudsman

28

Realisation
2020

Realisation
2021

Target
2022

Realisation
2022

Use of the operating expenses
appropriation, €1,000

3,534

3,912

4,797

4,041

Total costs, €1,000

3,700

4,351

-

4,450

Focus areas for
2023 and future
developments
The aim with the European Commission’s data

The AI Act is linked to the preparation of

strategy is to put the EU at the forefront of the

legislation on automated decision-making

data-driven society. The Commission has adopted

in public administration. In its opinion on the

several legislative proposals to implement the

legislation, the Constitutional Law Committee

EU data strategy and strengthen the European

justifiably drew attention to the transparency

data economy, including proposals for a Data

of information and the involvement of natural

Governance Act (DGA), a Digital Markets Act

persons in automated decision-making.

(DMA), a Digital Services Act (DSA), a Data Act
(DA) and an Artificial Intelligence Act (AI). In

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

addition, the forthcoming data regulation includes

has considered it important that the question of

a proposal for a European Health Data Space and

whether the administrative fines pursuant to the

a new ePrivacy Regulation. Some of the proposals

General Data Protection Regulation should also

have progressed or are progressing to the national

apply to public sector operators is investigated

implementation stage. For some proposals, the

and assessed at the beginning of the new term

preparation at EU level will continue in 2023.

of government. The Government Programme
states that administrative fines for data breaches

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman

apply equally to the public and private sectors.

emphasises that ensuring a consistent and clear
regulatory framework is key to the roll-out of the

The public sector plays a key role in creating a

new data regulations. The oversight of provisions

responsible data economy. One of the effects

on the protection of personal data should be

of the reform would be the promotion of the

centralised to the Data Protection Ombudsman.

proper consideration of integrated, default

There is a risk that any other solution would

data protection in major system projects in the

lead to inconsistent administrative practices.

public sector. The Office of the Data Protection

The centralisation would also lead to resource

Ombudsman is looking forward to cooperation

and cost savings compared to decentralisation.

in the preparation of the reform.

29

Focus areas of the Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman in 2023
▪ Data subject’s rights and the special status of children
▪ Transparent and timely access to information
▪ Artificial intelligence, automated decision-making
and profiling

▪ Support to Data Protection Officers
▪ New data regulations and powers of
the Data Protection Ombudsman

▪ EU cooperation and cross-border
decision-making procedure

30

Matters instituted
and processed from
2020 to 2022
The table below presents how many cases have been

The prior consultation (high risk) group of cases

instituted and how many cases have been resolved

includes prior consultations due to the high residual

by the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman in

risk, notifications required by the national legislation

2020–2022. The statistics have been compiled from

(Data Protection Act, section 31, subsection 3) as well

the Office’s case management system at the end of

as issues related to lists of high or low risk processing

the year in question.

measures.

2020
Instituted

2020
Resolved

2021
Instituted

2021
Resolved

2022
Instituted

2022
Resolved

Tasks in accordance with the GDPR and the Data Protection Law Enforcement Directive
Prior consultation (high risk)

107

24

88

22

71

249

Statements

391

361

392

398

408

417

3

0

1

2

0

1

51

9

54

25

26

18

1,108

860

811

760

1,018

1,016

984

1,085

943

984

834

950

Supervision

1,009

950

1,139

1,145

1,063

1,069

Personal data breaches

4,275

4,139

4,786

5,056

5,446

5,663

Guidance and advice

2,116

2,921

1,650

2,037

1,176

1,441

241

244

323

323

255

269

0

0

3

4

2

2

667

717

630

630

796

774

10,952

11,310

10,820

11,386

11,095

11,869

Codes of Conduct
Transfers of personal data
EU and international cooperation
Rights of the data subject

Data Protection Officers
Board of Experts
General, financial and
human resource issues

Total

31

P. O. Box 800, FI-00531 Helsinki, Finland
tel. +358 29 566 6700 (switchboard)
tietosuoja@om.fi
www.tietosuoja.fi

