1/7

 Procedure No.: EXP202100066 (PS/00404/2022)

RESOLUTION OF THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/04/21, a document submitted by
Mrs. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claiming party"), against the entity, CASA 7
PERSONAL SHOPPER, S.L., with CIF.: B87396172, (hereinafter "the part
claimed”), in which it indicated, among other things, the following:

“I have requested information for an advertisement published by this company about
a sale that they manage and the response has included the mail of
several people and we have all received it. They have not used the blind copy
so all emails are visible to all of us who have received the
same answer, in total (...) people. It does not seem logical to me that my address
mail has no one I don't know and even less who knows what they are
my personal interests because my email address also includes my
real name".

The claim document is accompanied by the following relevant documentation for the
present procedure:

- Copy of the email sent on 06/02/21, from the address
***USER.1@gmail.com to (...) recipients without hiding their email addresses
mail (without using the BCC functionality), with information related to a
plot of the Urbanization (...).

SECOND: On 07/21/21 and 08/09/21, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal Rights and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), by this
Agency, said claim was transferred to the claimed party, so that
proceed to its analysis and report, within a month, on what was exposed
in the claim letter.

- According to the certificate of the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service
e-mail, the application document sent to the claimed party, on 07/21/21, to
through the electronic notification service "NOTIFIC@", was rejected
at destination on 08/01/21.

- According to the certificate of the State Postal and Telegraph Society, the letter of support
legality sent to the claimed party, on 08/09/21 through the service of no-
Postal notifications from Correos, was returned to its destination with the annotation of
"a stranger".

THIRD: On 09/21/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data, an agreement is issued to admit the processing of the claim
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, when assessing possible

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of competences
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

FOURTH: On 05/09/22, 05/30/22 and 06/28/22, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection proceeded to make a request for information to the party
claimed, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and
of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(GDPR) and in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Section
second, of the LOPDGDD.

- According to the certificate of the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service
e-mail, the application document sent to the claimed party, on 05/09/22, to
through the electronic notification service "NOTIFIC@", was rejected
at destination on 05/20/22.

- According to the certificate of the State Postal and Telegraph Society, the letter of support
legality sent to the claimed party, on 05/30/22 through the service of no-
postal notifications from Correos, was returned to its destination with the annotation “au-
sente of the cast", and not having received the notification from the "List" service of
Mail.

- According to the certificate of the State Postal and Telegraph Society, the letter of support
legality sent to the claimed party, on 06/28/22 through the service of no-
Postal notifications from Correos, was received at destination on 07/14/22.

The letter granted the claimed party a period of ten business days to
answer the request. This period ended on 07/29/22 and as of today, no
received in this Agency any type of response to the request for information
required.

FIFTH: On 08/08/22, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Datos agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, for the alleged
violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, imposing an initial penalty of 2,000 euros
(two thousand euros), and for violation of article 32 of the GDPR, imposing a sanction
initial amount of 1,500 euros (one thousand five hundred euros).

- According to the certificate of the State Postal and Telegraph Society, the letter of
initiation of file sent to the claimed party, on 08/11/22 through
of the postal notification service of Correos, was returned to its destination on
08/29/22 with the annotation "absent from the distribution", and not having collected the
notification of the Mail "List" service.

In accordance with article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the PACAP Law, when
having been unsuccessful the practice of notification of the indicated act, it is
publishes announcement in the Official State Gazette dated 08/31/22.

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP and after the period granted for the formulation of allegations, it has been

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

It has been verified that no allegation has been received by the claimed party to said
agreement.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, it has been accredited
the following facts:

First: As has been verified, the claimant received an email
sent on 06/02/21, from the address ***USUARIO.1@gmail.com in which
I could read the addresses of other (...) recipients, who were not hiding. This is the \ It \ him
sending had been made without using the BCC functionality of the email, which
made it possible for all recipients to have access to the email address of the
the rest.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

 
It is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR
recognizes each Control Authority and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and
68.1 of the LOPDGDD Law.

II.- Summary of the facts:

In the documentation provided by the claimant, it can be seen that, on 06/02/21 to
5:28 p.m., from the email address, ***USER.1@gmail.com,
whose owner is the entity CASA 7 PERSONAL SHOPPER, S.L., an email was sent
mail to (...) recipients whose addresses appeared in it without being
hidden, that is, the BCC functionality had not been used in it.

III.- On the lack of confidentiality in the processing of personal data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Article 5 of the GDPR establishes the principles that must govern the treatment of personal data.
personal data and mentions, in section 1.f) that of "integrity and confidentiality":

"1. Personal data will be: f) treated in such a way as to guarantee a
adequate security of personal data, including protection against
unauthorized or illegal treatment and against its loss, destruction or damage
accidental, through the application of technical or organizational measures
("integrity and confidentiality")".

In the case at hand, the defendant, by sending an email without using the
blind copy option has violated confidentiality in data processing
of a personal nature included in article 5.1.f) GDPR, since in this way, the
claimant had access to the email addresses of the rest of the
recipients.

This infraction is sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of
of a company, in an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

For its part, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, "The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83 of the GDPR, with
regarding the offense committed by violating the provisions of its article 5.1.f),
allows a penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros) to be set.

IV.- On the lack of security in the processing of personal data.

Security in the processing of personal data is regulated in article 32
of the GDPR, which establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks
of variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of
natural persons, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of
security appropriate to the risk, which, if applicable, includes, among others: a) the
pseudonymization and encryption of personal data; b) the ability to guarantee
the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of the
treatment systems and services; c) the ability to restore the
availability and access to personal data quickly in case of
physical or technical incident; d) a process of verification, evaluation and assessment
regular monitoring of the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures to ensure
the safety of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the level of security, particular attention should be paid to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or unlawful alteration of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

personal data transmitted, stored or processed in another way, or the
unauthorized communication or access to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as
element to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in the
paragraph 1 of this article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
ensure that any person acting under the authority of the controller or
of the person in charge and has access to personal data can only process such
data following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so
under the law of the Union or of the Member States”.

It should be noted that the GDPR in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that is the object
of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, probability risks
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

In addition, security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, noting that the determination of the technical measures and
organizational procedures must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption, the
ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.
In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level,
particular account of the risks presented by data processing, such as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In the case at hand, the defendant, by sending an email without using the
blind carbon copy option is in breach of its obligation to apply the technical measures
and organizational procedures to guarantee an adequate level of security in the
treatment of personal data included in article 32 GDPR.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of a maximum of €10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater value, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the GDPR.

For its part, Article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD considers serious, for the purposes of
prescription, "f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83 of the GDPR, with
regarding the infringement committed by violating the provisions of article 32 of the GDPR,
allows a penalty of 1,500 euros (one thousand five hundred euros) to be set.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, and with the applicable legislation, the Director of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity CASA 7 PERSONAL SHOPPER, S.L., with CIF.:
B87396172 for violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, when sending an email
email violating the confidentiality of the recipients, with a sanction of
2,000 euros (two thousand euros) and for the violation of article 32 of the GDPR, when sending a
email without using the blind copy option, that is, without applying the measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee an adequate level of security,
with a penalty of 1,500 euros (one thousand five hundred euros)

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CASA 7 PERSONAL SHOPPER,
S.L.

THIRD: Warn the penalized party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment term
indicated in article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account No. ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the
Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in
executive period.
 
Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of 30
December, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, the present
Resolution will be made public, once the interested parties have been notified. The
publication will be made in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of 22
December, from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection on the publication of their
Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reversal before the Director of the Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Spanish Data Protection Agency within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution, or, directly, a contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative, within a period of two months from the day following
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned text
legal.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/],
or through any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer the documentation to the Agency
proving the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. if the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
administration within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
present resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

