Legal Office  
N/REF: 0049/2020  

The inquiry raises the possible transfer to the CIS, by the National Commission on Markets and Competition (CNMC), of the lists of telephone numbers by province for the exclusive purpose of conducting the pre-electoral surveys in the Basque Country and Galicia. These telephone numbers would not be associated with any other identifying data, referring exclusively to the corresponding province, and would not include the numbers of those individuals who have exercised their right to object to being listed in the telephone directories.  

In this regard, it should be noted that, in light of the situation arising from the current circumstances caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic and the restrictions resulting from the declaration of the state of alarm by Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, and in view of the need expressed by the CIS to replace household surveys with telephone surveys to carry out its monthly Barometers and other specific surveys, this Agency has had the opportunity to express its opinion on two occasions: in Report 31/2020, dated April 7, regarding the possible transfer to the CIS, by the National Statistics Institute (INE), of the fixed and mobile phone numbers of the selected population in the samples to execute the functions assigned to the CIS, and in Report 35/2020, dated April 27, regarding the communication by the CNMC to the CIS of the fixed and mobile phone numbers of the selected population in the nominative samples prepared for the CIS by the INE, requesting, in both cases, further information in order to determine the adequacy of such data communications to the regulations on the protection of personal data.  

I  
As this Agency has repeatedly pointed out in the successive reports issued during the state of alarm, such a declaration does not imply the suspension of the fundamental right to data protection, without prejudice to the fact that it may be affected as a consequence of the causal fact that has led to the declaration, with the GDPR itself providing the appropriate channels that allow for a response to the health crisis situation while respecting the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. Therefore, any processing of personal data that must be carried out as a consequence of the pandemic and the declaration of the state of alarm must respect the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, complying with the provisions of the GDPR, which allows, as we have seen, the establishment of specific rules regarding the exercise of that right, in accordance with the GDPR itself, as well as the doctrine developed by the Constitutional Court in interpreting Article 18.4 of our Constitution, particularly concerning the principle of proportionality.  

Starting from the above, addressing the strict terms of the inquiry, and referring to the communication of the telephone numbers held by the CNMC, it is necessary to analyze, beforehand, the legal basis under which the CNMC can proceed to the processing of the personal data of subscribers to electronic communications services, as well as the specific purpose for which such data is collected and processed.  

In this sense, as this Agency has repeatedly indicated, the legal obligation to allow the provision of directory services under conditions of effective competition and the specific data transfer that it entails, derives from the provisions of Articles 25 and 49 of the current Law 9/2014, of May 9, General Telecommunications Law -LGT-.  

Thus, in relation to the fulfillment of this obligation, Article 25.1 c) of the LGT, within the regulation of the universal service, recalls that:  
“Under the aforementioned concept of universal service, it must be guaranteed, under the terms and conditions determined by royal decree by the Government (...) that a general directory of subscriber numbers, whether printed or electronic, or both, is made available to subscribers of the publicly available telephone service, which is updated at least once a year. By royal decree, the groups of subscribers who can request the delivery of the printed directory will be determined. Likewise, at least one general information service about subscriber numbers must be made available to all end users of this service, including users of payphones,” adding that “All subscribers to the publicly available telephone service shall have the right to appear in the aforementioned general directory, without prejudice, in any case, to respect for the rules governing the protection of personal data and the right to privacy.”  

The guarantee of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data is expressly recognized among the objectives and principles of Law 9/2014, of May 9, by establishing within them Article 3 j):  
“To defend the interests of users, ensuring their right to access electronic communications services under adequate conditions of choice, price, and good quality, promoting the ability of end users to access and distribute information or use the applications and services of their choice, in particular to...
Legal Cabinet
through open access to the Internet. In the provision of these services, the constitutional imperatives of non-discrimination, respect for the rights to honor and privacy, protection of youth and childhood, protection of personal data, and confidentiality in communications must be safeguarded.

Regarding the regulation of telephone directories, Article 49.1 of the LGT establishes that:
“The preparation and marketing of subscriber guides to electronic communication services and the provision of information services about them shall be carried out under conditions of free competition.”

Furthermore, Article 48.3 establishes that:
“With respect to the protection of personal data and privacy in relation to subscriber guides, end users of electronic communication services shall have the following rights: a) To be listed in the subscriber guides. b) To be informed free of charge about the inclusion of their data in the guides, as well as the purpose thereof, prior to such inclusion. c) Not to be listed in the guides or to request the omission of some of their data, to the extent that such data is relevant to the purpose of the guide stipulated by their provider.”

As for the duty to provide information for the provision of telephone directory editing services or telephone inquiries under free competition, Article 49.1 of Law 9/2014 adds that:
“To this end, companies that assign telephone numbers to subscribers must comply with all reasonable requests for the provision of relevant information necessary for the provision of information services about subscriber numbers and publicly accessible guides, in an approved format and under equitable, objective, cost-oriented, and non-discriminatory conditions, with the provision of the aforementioned information and its subsequent use being subject to the data protection regulations in force at any given time.”

For this reason, as this Agency has reiterated in various legal reports - including Report No. 0008/2020, dated April 2, 2020 - “(…) the legislator expressly specifies, in a regulation with the rank of Law, the possibility that, in a subsequent regulatory development, operators may be required to provide the necessary data to fully comply with the rights/duties that it enshrines in the Law itself.”

Consequently, in the general context - to which the exercise of its competencies refers - the communication of data to the National Commission on Markets and Competition finds its foundation in the legal obligation to guarantee free competition in the market. For its part, the legal basis legitimizing the processing of the data thus obtained by the assignees of this information is rooted in the legitimate interest of these when they intend to provide the telephone directory service regarding subscriber numbers or information about subscriber numbers under conditions of free competition.

Within this specific regulatory framework, successive communications of information containing personal data would be covered, under the regime in force since May 25, 2018, by paragraphs c) and f) of Article 6.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016 - GDPR and must comply with the regulatory standards that govern them: Royal Decree 424/2005, of April 15, which approves the Regulation on the conditions for the provision of electronic communication services, the universal service, and the protection of users, Order CTE/711/2002, of March 26, which establishes the conditions for the provision of the telephone inquiry service regarding subscriber numbers, and Circular of the National Commission on Markets and Competition 1/2013, regarding the procedure for supplying subscriber data for the provision of directory services, telephone inquiries regarding subscriber numbers, and emergencies, modified by Circular 5/2014, of July 30.

In particular, it should be noted what is provided in the second paragraph of Article 68.2 of Royal Decree 424/2005, which, in development of the right that subscribers have not to be listed in the guides or to request the omission of some of their data, as we have seen in Article 48.3 of the LGT, states that:
“The data concerning subscribers who have exercised their right not to be listed in publicly accessible guides shall only be provided to the entities that hold the emergency call service. For these purposes, emergency call services shall be understood as those provided through the number 112 and any others determined by the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and the Information Society.” 

II
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
Legal Office
As can be observed, in the present case, the communication of personal data is being requested for a purpose different from that for which it was obtained. Since this involves the communication of data between administrative bodies, it must first adhere to what is provided in its specific regulations, starting from the configuration of the CIS as an “autonomous administrative body, with its own legal personality and assets, whose purpose is the scientific study of Spanish society,” as stipulated in Article 1 of Law 39/1995, of December 19, on the Organization of the Center for Sociological Research, whose Article 2 adds that “The Center for Sociological Research will carry out its functions in accordance with the principles of objectivity and neutrality in its actions, of equal access to its data, and of respect for the rights of citizens and statistical secrecy.”
Article 5 outlines the principles of action and the legal regime of research through surveys, which include the principle of voluntariness and the protection of personal data:
The studies that the Center for Sociological Research conducts using the survey method will adhere to the following principles:
a) Voluntariness of responses, especially when inquiring about issues of an ethnic, political, religious, or ideological nature, as well as circumstances relating to personal or family privacy.
b) Research transparency, informing respondents about the organization conducting the study and the nature and purpose of it, as well as the guarantees that assist them regarding the protection of their identity and privacy.
c) Specialization, using the information for the specific purposes of the research and always within the statutory objectives of the Center.
d) Protection of personal data, adopting the necessary measures at any phase of the research process, and subsequently, to guarantee the right to privacy and intimacy of individuals and families.
The functions provided in this article that are carried out by both entities and interviewers or coordinators of the Center's field network will be considered included in Article 196.3 e) of the Law on Public Administration Contracts and will be governed by that Law.
In particular, in relation to the electoral surveys referred to in the inquiry, the second additional provision refers to what is established in Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, on the General Electoral Regime:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5

                                                                  Legal Office
Second Additional Provision. Action during electoral periods.
During electoral periods, the Center for Sociological Research will adjust its actions to what the electoral administration determines in accordance with Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, and, in particular, may only publish the polls or surveys it conducts under the terms provided in Article 69 of the aforementioned Organic Law.
On the other hand, the CIS invokes the obligation of collaboration contained in Article 10.3 of Law 12/1989, of May 9, on Public Statistical Function:
Article 10.
3. The same obligation applies to all institutions and public entities of the State Administration, the Autonomous Communities, and Local Corporations.
When the use of data held in administrative sources is necessary for the realization of statistics, the bodies, authorities, and officials responsible for their custody will provide the fastest and most agile collaboration to the statistical services.
According to the Explanatory Memorandum of this legal text, “However, the importance of using data already collected by other offices or administrative dependencies as a result of their ordinary activity for statistical purposes is emphasized, which allows, on the other hand, a considerable saving of resources and avoids having to approach informants again to collect data that is already in the possession of the Administration for other purposes.”
However, the communication of such data, when it concerns personal data, is subject to the provisions of the regulations on the protection of personal data and to the principles set out in Article 5 of the GDPR, which requires analyzing, first of all, whether the intended communication is a proportional measure, appropriate to the intended purpose.
For these purposes, it must be established that the requested data is not for the purpose of statistical treatment, but as a means of contact with the individuals who will participate in the survey, with the data they provide being the subject of the corresponding statistical operations.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
6
Legal Office
Therefore, they would be relevant for the purposes set forth in Article 12 of Law 12/1989, that is, for the purpose of articulating the way to obtain the information:

Article 12.
1.  Information shall always be requested directly from the persons or entities concerned, either by mail, personal visit from duly accredited agents, or any other means that ensures direct communication between them and the statistical services or their agents.
2. The requested information may be provided in writing, through magnetic media, or using other procedures that allow for its computer processing, always in accordance with the provisions of the regulations governing each specific statistic.
3. The expenses incurred by informants for the mailings and communications resulting from the conduct of statistics for state purposes shall be covered by the budgets of the statistical services.

This provision expressly refers to two ways of obtaining information, by mail or by personal visit, for which it would be sufficient to know the address of the interested party, with the information contained in the municipal register being sufficient for these purposes, as expressly provided in Article 16.3 of the LBRL. However, the legitimization for processing the address data cannot be extrapolated, without more, to the processing of the fixed phone number and mobile phone number data, as the latter can be much more intrusive regarding the right to personal data protection. In this regard, considering that the text itself provides for the possibility of conducting the statistics by mail, the impossibility or inefficiency of the same should be adequately justified, or, if applicable, through other technological means that do not require the processing of the phone number, to assess the proportionality of the requested transfer.

For these purposes, the CIS has stated the following:
“In this way, the use of telephone means has been proposed as a possibility for conducting surveys. This method for conducting surveys and studies is the most suitable for cases where the in-person option is not possible, but also in a context of an information society like the current one, avenues in this direction must be explored to be able to reconcile traditional surveys with other more modern forms that are in line with current times. Another avenue would be telematics; however, it must be abandoned as it does not allow access to acceptable samples of the population, as it includes a very significant economic and age bias. On the other hand, mechanisms have not yet been developed that would allow a survey...”
Legal Office
conducted through a computer, without contact, can achieve the same levels of validity as one conducted by a professional and expert interviewer, whether in person or via telephone call. 
Another alternative is mail; however, in addition to the last defects mentioned regarding telematics, it entails higher costs and logistical implications that are not feasible. On the other hand, there would be no control over who accepts to participate in the survey and who does not, until a considerable amount of time has passed, which would prevent the sample from being adjusted according to refusals. Likewise, there would be no means to control the time taken to answer the survey nor to ensure that there are no external influences that impede answering in a natural and direct manner.
Consequently, considering the urgency arising from the call for electoral processes, the problems of timely adjustment of the survey in the case of conducting it by mail, and the bias that would occur if using the internet, the CIS justifies, as the only possible alternative, the use of telephone means, understanding that this Agency, in the specific case subject to this consultation, and based on the impossibility, at least while the state of alarm is declared, of conducting the surveys in person, finds that conducting the surveys by telephone is proportionate, provided that additional guarantees are adopted in obtaining the phone numbers to ensure the protection of the fundamental right to personal data protection.
When determining such guarantees, two singular circumstances must be taken into account in the present case:
First, that participation in the surveys conducted by the CIS is always voluntary, as stated in Article 5 a) of Law 39/1995, of December 19, previously cited: “Voluntariness of responses, especially when inquiring about ethnic, political, religious, or ideological matters, as well as circumstances related to personal or family privacy.”
Second, considering the administrative nature of the CIS, as an Autonomous Body, it must be noted that, according to Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the ordinary means of communication with the administered is the address provided by them or the one that can be obtained by the Administration from the Register in procedures initiated ex officio (Article 41.4), without the administered being obliged to provide their phone number among the information that must necessarily be included in the application in procedures initiated.
Legal Office
instance of the same (Article 66). Therefore, there is no legal obligation for the individuals to provide their phone number to the Administration, which can only be processed when it has been voluntarily provided by them and for the strict purpose for which it was provided. For this reason, it cannot be considered that it falls within the expectations of the interested parties that the Administration contacts them by phone. 

At this point, as we have seen, there is only one case of a legal obligation for operators to communicate phone numbers to an administrative body, the CNMC, for the purposes already indicated in this report, and recognizing as a right of the interested parties the right “not to appear in directories or to request the omission of some of their data, to the extent that such data is relevant for the purpose of the directory stipulated by its provider” (Article 48.3 of Law 9/2014). In these cases, as provided in Article 68.2 of Royal Decree 424/2005, “The data concerning subscribers who have exercised their right not to appear in publicly accessible directories will only be provided to the entities responsible for emergency call services. For these purposes, emergency call services are understood to be those provided through the number 112 and any others determined by the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and the Information Society.”

Based on the above, the proposal from the CIS includes some guarantees that are considered fundamental:
First, only the data corresponding to the mobile phone number and the province to which it corresponds will be accessed, without providing any other identifying data.
Second, the phone numbers of those individuals who have exercised their right not to appear in publicly accessible directories will not be included in the list provided by the CNMC.
On the other hand, not all phone numbers of subscribers in the province will be processed, but only the percentage deemed appropriate to ensure that it corresponds to the relevant sample, a percentage that, depending on the Autonomous Community, would range between 5.1% and 6.3% of its population, to be distributed proportionally by province, according to its population, which will be selected randomly. 

In this way, in the opinion of this Agency, the communication of subscriber data from the telephone service by the CNMC to the CIS for the purpose of conducting electoral surveys would find its basis in Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR (“the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller”) and is in accordance with the principles of c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
9
Legal Office
limitation of purpose and data minimization as per Article 5, as well as
the doctrine of our Constitutional Court, included among others, in its
Judgment 17/2013, of January 31, which opposes mass and indiscriminate access to personal data in cases of data transfers between Public Administrations.
Furthermore, since it is foreseen that the obtained phone numbers will only be retained
for the time necessary to carry out the fieldwork and, if applicable, for the time necessary for the subsequent quality control, up to a maximum of thirty days, after which they will be deleted, the principle of limitation of the retention period would be complied with.
Additionally, it should be noted that the other guarantees inherent to the exercise
of the statistical function, such as adherence to statistical confidentiality or the
dissociation of data from the moment the survey is conducted, separating the
responses given by the respondents from the phone numbers, as well as the other appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of the affected individuals and the
compliance of the processing with the regulations on personal data protection that the CIS, as the data controller, must adopt, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility.
At this point, this legal report is not tasked with conducting a detailed analysis of these measures, whose assessment corresponds, as stated, to the data controller. However, considering what has been expressed by the inquirer, it is important to highlight that, given the planned participation of a company for conducting the surveys,
providing the corresponding software program, in the event that it has access in any way to personal data, it will hold the status of data processor, and a data processing agreement must be signed with the content provided in Article 28.3 of the GDPR.
Regarding the information related to the processing of personal data that will be verbally provided to those participating in the surveys, it must include the basic information provided in Article 11.2 of the LOPDGDD for the “first layer,” indicating an electronic address or another means that allows easy and immediate access to the remaining information.
Therefore, this Agency considers the communication by the CNMC to the CIS of the necessary phone numbers for conducting the surveys related to the electoral processes to be held in Galicia and the Basque Country, in the terms indicated in this report, to be compliant with the regulations on personal data protection.
IV
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
10

                                                                  Legal Office
Finally, considering the urgency with which this report is requested given the proximity of the electoral processes referred to in the inquiry, which would require adopting exceptional measures, it must be avoided, in any case, that such exceptional measures may, without further ado, become generalized once this period is over, and in light of the possibility of using other alternative measures, as already indicated in Report 36/2020, a criterion of prudence must prevail that allows for a calm analysis of their implications and, in any case, regarding the competencies of this Agency, a rigorous study of the risks to the rights and freedoms that these treatments imply and of the necessary guarantees to protect the right to personal data protection, adhering to the principle of proactive responsibility.
Therefore, considering the principle of prudence already mentioned, as well as what has been expressed by the inquirer regarding the Annual Program 2020 of the National Statistical Plan 2017-2020, whose section 28 recommends promoting multichannel collection in household surveys through electronic and telephone means, taking into account the evolution of society in the use of the Internet and the effectiveness of telephone data collection, this Agency considers it necessary that, in the event that the generalization of surveys through electronic and telephone means is foreseen, the corresponding legislative modification be promoted to ensure legal certainty and the adequacy of the corresponding personal data processing to the GDPR and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, by establishing the specific guarantees deemed appropriate.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11