21.11.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In October 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator ING Bank NV Amsterdam Bucharest Branch and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) and para. (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The operator was fined in the amount of 98,076.00 lei (the equivalent of 20,000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of the transmission by the operator of a notification regarding the violation of the security of personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation.
The notification was based on information according to which the personal data of some of the concerned persons was accessed and disclosed without authorization (identification data associated with the identity document; contact data; banking data (transactions and products owned, data associated with the card ); user and password of the Internet Banking (Home'Bank) module, resulting in the performance of payment operations by third parties, affecting the personal data of these concerned persons.
During the investigation, it was found that the operator ING Bank NV Amsterdam Sucursala Bucharest did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of security corresponding to the risk presented by the processing, generated in particular, accidentally or illegally, by unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access to personal data transmitted, stored or processed in another way. This led to the unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access to the personal data of those ING Bank NV Amsterdam Bucharest Branch customers.
We emphasize that, according to art. 5 para. (1) lit. f) of the RGPD, ING Bank NV Amsterdam Bucharest Branch had the obligation to process personal data in a way that ensures their adequate security, including protection against unauthorized or illegal processing and against loss, destruction or accidental damage, through taking appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").
Both the operator of ING Bank NV Amsterdam Sucursala Bucharest and the operator of Raiffeisen Bank SA have paid the contravention fines.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.