1/3

 Procedure No.: PS/00355/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00355/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to D. A.A.A., owner of the website www.antifawear.com, (“the
claimed person"), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European and Council Document of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons
with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation
of these Data (RGPD), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: dated 09/23/18, D. B.B.B. (hereinafter, “the claimant”), presented
written before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in which, among others, denounced
ciaba:

The website www.antifawear.com, dedicated to the online sale of diverse products
sos, does not comply with the current regulations on Data Protection since,
among other possible circumstances that must be inspected by this
Agency, lacks a Privacy Policy according to what is regulated in the RGPD;
uses a contact form in which data is collected without including any
information on the aspects contemplated in the current regulations on Pro-
Data protection, not containing a link to the Privacy Policy and lacking
c of the checkbox; explicitly requesting that the user accept the Privacy Policy
Privacy. Likewise, it is not possible to know the transfer of these to third parties; and yes
all these third parties have signed with the owner of the web the corresponding
contracts for the provision of services in the field of Data Protection”.

SECOND: Dated 07/02/19, in view of the facts set forth in the claim
and the documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
tion of Data proceeded to carry out actions for its clarification, under the protection of
the powers of investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation,
(RGPD), an information request is addressed to Dinahosting S.L. to report to
this Agency on the owner of the domain that corresponds to the denounced web page.
On 07/15/19, Dinahosting sends a letter to this Agency, indicating that the person
The person responsible for said domain is, D. A.A.A., with DNI ***NIF.1 and address at
***ADDRESS 1.
THIRD: Checked the website www.antifawear.com, dated 10/10/19,
notes that to place an order for the products it advertises, you must enter
the personal data of the interested party, lacking any type of banner or link to the
"privacy policy" of the page.
FOURTH: On 11/19/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
of the powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for alleged infringement of article
13 of the RGPD and considered very serious in 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD for the purposes of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

23

prescription, setting an initial sanction of "Warning", without prejudice to what is
will result in the course of the instruction of the procedure, and requiring the entity
that: “Take the necessary measures contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, in order to
do facilitate the users of the portal, at the moment in which the personal data is collected
them through the forms on their page, the information
required in the aforementioned precept, for which it must take into account the provisions of art.
Article 6 of the RGPD in relation to the legality of the treatment”.

SIXTH: On 11/15/19, the initiation of the file was notified to the claimant entity.
demanded, who has not filed before this Agency, any brief or allegation, within the
the period granted for this purpose.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- Checked the website www.antifawear.com, dated 10/10/19, it is observed
that to place an order for the products you advertise, you must enter the data
of the interested party, lacking any type of banner or link to the "policy
privacy” on the page.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

II

III

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
bre, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in the su-
cessive LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

In the present case, it has been found that, on the website
www.antifawear.com, to place an order for the products it advertises, you must
enter the personal data of the interested party, lacking any type of banner
or link to the "privacy policy" of the page.

All of the above could imply an infraction for violation of article 13) of the
RGPD, considered in article 72.1.h), of the LOPDGDD as "very serious" for
prescription cough.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the ma-
greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/3

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

RESOLVE

WARN: D. A.A.A., owner of the website www.antifawear.com, for infringement
of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

REQUEST: D. A.A.A., so that, within one month from this act of notification-
tion, proceed to take the appropriate measures to adapt your privacy policy to
the current regulations, (requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD), and must
provide users and/or patients, at the time the personal data is collected,
them, through the forms, the information required in the aforementioned pre-
concept, for which you must take into account the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD in
relation to the legality of the treatment.

NOTIFY this resolution to D. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

