1/6

 File No.: PS/00045/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated September 23,
2020, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against LLUCMAJOR CITY COUNCIL with NIF P0703100H
(hereinafter, the CITY COUNCIL). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

-According to what he says, he picked up a letter at the post office and outside, without
need to open or unseal it, it could be read that it was about a
sanction in matters of Traffic, Circulation of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety.
It adds that such information has been exposed to an unknown number of people.
Along with the claim, provide a copy of the outside and inside of the letter received.
 
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the CITY COUNCIL, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer was sent on 10/29/2020 through the Notification Service
Electronic and Enabled Electronic Address, being notified the same day
10/29/2020.

On 11/25/2020, this Agency received a written response, transferring
of a report prepared by the Tax Agency of the Balearic Islands (hereinafter,
ATIB) indicating:

-It corresponds to the ATIB, by order of the LLUCMAJOR CITY COUNCIL, the
processing of the sanctioning files in the matter of Traffic of the City Council.

-The claim refers to the notification of an administrative act (initiation agreement
of sanctioning procedure in the matter of Traffic), carried out, as a postal operator,
by the entity Sociedad Estatal Correos y Telégrafos SA, and responds to what is established
in articles 40 and following of Law 39/2015 of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, in relation to what is established
in the consolidated text of the Law on Traffic, Circulation of Motor Vehicles and
Road Safety, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 6/2015 of October 31, in
particular article 90 and following.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

-Regarding the format of administrative notifications, it is necessary to take into account the
provided for in Law 43/2010 of December 30 on the universal postal service and its
Regulation approved by Royal Decree 1829/1999 of December 3, in which article
40 establishes that:

       <<The admission of notifications by the operator that has been entrusted with the
provision of the universal postal service requires that the word
"Notification", and, below it and in smaller characters, the act to which it is
refers (summons, requirement, resolution) and the indication "File number..." or
any other expression that identifies the act to notify.
These shipments will be accompanied by the supporting document of their admission>>

- Once the specific notification object of the claim has been verified, it is considered that
conforms to the exposed regulations, consisting only visible in the upper part of the
acknowledgment of receipt of the notified act: "Notification of alleged traffic violation".
If the claim refers to the fact that once the acknowledgment of receipt has been withdrawn,
display the text of the notified act, it must be taken into account that the visible text is
refers generically to the regulations of the Traffic sanctioning procedure, without
containing data from the complaint. That text is the one that appears in the notifications
practiced in the Single Edictal Board of the Official State Gazette, in the
notifications related to sanctioning procedures in matters of Traffic, and
could only be visible by the postal operator once the acknowledgment of
receipt.

-To access the specific data of the complaint (registration of the vehicle, amount of
sanction etc) you have to separate the edges of the document.

-Despite not considering that any regulations regarding
Data Protection, have proceeded to remove from the acknowledgment of receipt the information
relating to the notified act.

THIRD: On 12/23/2020, the claim filed by
the claiming party.

FOURTH: On October 29, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the CITY COUNCIL,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 11/16/2021, a brief of allegations is received in which, in
In short, the CITY COUNCIL states:

-The claim refers to the notification of an administrative act (initiation agreement
of sanctioning procedure in the matter of traffic) carried out, as a postal operator,
by the entity Sociedad Estatal Correos y Telégrafos SA. Therefore, first of all,
the notification responds to the provisions of articles 40 and following of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (in relation to what is established in the consolidated text of the
Law on Traffic, Circulation of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety, approved by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Royal Legislative Decree 6/2015, of October 30 -in particular, articles 90 and
concordant–).
-Secondly, with regard to the format of administrative notifications,
The provisions of Law 43/2010, of December 30, on the service must be taken into account.
universal postal service and its Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 1829/1999, of 3
December, in which the admission and delivery of notifications of organs is regulated
administrative. In this regard, it should be noted that, in accordance with article 40
of Royal Decree 1829/1999, of December 3, the admission of notifications by the
operator entrusted with the provision of the universal postal service
requires that the word “Notification” appear on the shipment, and, below it and in
smaller characters, the act to which it refers (summons, request,
resolution) and the indication “file number…” or any other expression that identifies
the act to notify.

Likewise, it should also be noted that both article 7 of Law 43/2010, as well as the
Article 6 of Royal Decree 1829/1999, of December 3, establishes the obligation to
data protection by the postal operator, which will include the duty of secrecy
of those of a personal nature, the confidentiality of the information transmitted or
stored and privacy protection.

-Once the specific notification object of the claim has been verified, it is considered that
it conforms to the exposed regulations, being only visible in the part
above the acknowledgment of receipt the notified act, in this case indicating "Notification of
Alleged Traffic Violation” (to which only the operator has access
postal) resulting in that at the time of delivering the notification said part of the acknowledgment
is detached by the postal operator from the notification document so that it is
returned to the issuing entity of the act, delivering the notification to the person
addressee or, where appropriate, enabled for reception.

-If the claim refers to the fact that, once the acknowledgment of receipt has been withdrawn,
To view the text of the notified act, the following must be taken into account:

a) The only visible text (which is the one that was attached to the submitted claim) is
refers, in a generic way, to the regulations of the traffic sanctioning procedure, without
that the data of the complaint is recorded at any time. Furthermore, this text is the one that
appears in the publications in the Official State Gazette of notification of the
initiation of sanctioning proceedings in the matter of traffic for not having
been able to carry out the personal notification (ref.: articles 90.3 and 91 of the consolidated text of
the Law on Traffic, Circulation of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety). Therefore,
the text that could be visible by the postal operator or another person in the
time of notification of the act after releasing the acknowledgment of receipt, is the same
that appears in the publications of the notifications by appearance made to the
protection of the aforementioned articles of the traffic regulations, as well as article 44 of
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
public administrations, and in accordance with Additional Provision 7 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights.

b) To access the data of the complaint (such as data of the accused, fact
denounced, date and place of denouncement, vehicle registration, amount of the penalty),

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

that are also attached to the claim, must be separated, or more
specifically, necessarily peel off the edges of the document. Therefore, it
In any case, manual handling is required.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The facts bring cause for the claim dated 09/23/2020, through
of which the complaining party informed this Agency that he had
received a postal notification from the TOWN HALL that violated the regulations of
data protection, considering that your personal data had been
exposed.

SECOND: It is accredited that the complaining party received a notice of
start of a sanctioning procedure in the matter of traffic, by means of a certified letter
with acknowledgment of receipt, stating in the acknowledgment the inscription "notification of Alleged
Traffic Violation”. According to the CITY COUNCIL, even considering
that the regulations on data protection have not been violated, they have proceeded
to suppress said registration in the notifications of sanctioning procedures in
matter of Traffic, Circulation of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety.

THIRD: It is proven that the generic information related to the typification of the
traffic sanctioning procedure is not visible on the outside of the letter,
being perfectly hidden by the acknowledgment of receipt.

FOURTH: It is accredited that any other specific data related to the
infraction, personal data of the offender, vehicle, amount of the fine, etc. it's just
visible if the letter is opened, an operation that only the recipient of the letter performs.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 89.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, indicates the following:

II

 “Article 89. Proposed resolution in sanctioning procedures.
1. The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with a file of the
actions, without it being necessary to formulate the resolution proposal,
when in the procedure instruction it becomes clear that there is any
of the following circumstances:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

(…)
c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement
administrative. (…)”

III

In the present case, after examining the arguments presented by the
CITY COUNCIL, as well as all the documentation in the file, should be
conclude that there has been no violation of data protection, since the
data of the complaining party have not been exposed, as stated in his
claim, when verifying that the possible external information of the letter, -
generic information regarding the classification of the sanctioning procedure in matters
of traffic-, is hidden at all times by the acknowledgment of receipt, not being able to
considered that the simple fact of withdrawing said acknowledgment by the employee
responsible for the delivery supposes exposure of data, being subject to the duty of
secret, the confidentiality of the information transmitted or stored and the protection
privacy (article 6 of Royal Decree 1829/1999, of December 3, by which
the Regulation that regulates the provision of postal services is approved,
in development of what is established in Law 24/1998, of July 13, of the Postal Service
Universal and Liberalization of Postal Services).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: FILE this sanctioning procedure.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the LLUCMAJOR CITY COUNCIL,
and report the outcome of the proceedings to A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-171221

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

