

Bonn/Berlin, September 28, 2020


Press Release 23/2020


BfDI on the Right to Know Day 2020
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, emphasized the importance of free information on the occasion of the International Freedom of Information Day (Right to Know Day): My authority has been increasingly asked to mediate since March. People have many questions and a great need for official information on federal activities in connection with the corona pandemic. In principle, I would like to see more active transparency on the part of the authorities in the future. This means that they explain government actions better by independently publishing processes, figures and other information. This would, for example, help to increase acceptance of measures to combat the pandemic.

The spectrum of inquiries ranged from the test strategy of the Ministry of Health and the organization of the repatriation of German citizens by the Federal Foreign Office to technical questions about the Corona warning app. According to Ulrich Kelber, the advice given to the BfDI on the development of the Corona Warning app made one thing clear: Transparency creates trust. In a democracy, the success of action against Covid-19 depends on people believing in the government's actions and following the recommendations. Especially in times of uncertainty and misleading reports, it is more important than ever for the federal authorities to open up and contribute valid information to objectifying the debate. Our democracy is based on free knowledge.
The “International Day for Universal Access to Information” takes place every year on September 28, 2020. It was launched by the UNESCO General Conference in November 2015 and officially recognized by the United Nations General Assembly in October 2019.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











