Opinion 9/2020 on the draft decision of the Irish Supervisory
Authority regarding the Processor Binding Corporate Rules

of Reinsurance Group of America

Adopted on 14 April 2020

Adopted

Table of contents

1
2
3
4

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS........................................................................................... 5
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................... 5

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having  regard  to Article 63, Article 64  (1)(f)  and Article 47 of  the Regulation  2016/679/EU of  the
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the European Economic Area (EEA) Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and
Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July
2018,

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The  main  role of  the European  Data Protection Board (hereinafter the EDPB) is to ensure  the
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the European Economic Area. To this effect, it follows
from Article 64(1)(f) GDPR that the EDPB shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) aims
to approve binding corporate rules (BCRs) within the meaning of Article 47 GDPR.

(2) The EDPB  welcomes  and  acknowledges  the  efforts  the  companies  make  to  uphold  the  GDPR
standards in a global environment. Building on the experience under the Directive 95/46/EC the EDPB
affirms the important role of BCRs to frame international transfers and its commitment to support the
companies in setting-up their BCRs. This opinion aims towards this objective and takes into account
that the GDPR strengthened the level of protection, as reflected in the requirements of Article 47 GDPR
and, in addition, conferred to the EDPB the task to issue an opinion on the competent supervisory
authority’s (BCR Lead) draft decision aiming to approve BCRs. This task of EDPB aims to ensure the
consistent  application  of  the  GDPR,  including  by  the  supervisory  authorities,  controllers  and
processors.

(3) Pursuant to Article 46(1) GDPR, in the absence of a decision pursuant to Article 45(3), a controller
or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international organisation only if the
controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition that enforceable data
subject rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are available. A group of undertakings or
group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity may provide such safeguards by the use of
legally binding BCRs, which expressly confer enforceable rights on data subjects and fulfil a series of
requirements (Article 46 GDPR). The specific requirements listed in the GDPR are the minimum items
BCRs  shall  specify  (Article 47(2) GDPR).  The  BCRs  are subject  to  approval  from  the  competent
supervisory authority (“competent SA”), in accordance with the consistency mechanism set out in
Article 63 and 64(1)(f) GDPR, provided that the BCRs meet the conditions set out in Article 47 GDPR,
together  with 
the
the  requirements  set  out 
Article 29 Working Party1, endorsed by the EDPB.

the  relevant  working  documents  of 

in 

1 The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data instituted
by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC.

Adopted

3

(4) WP257 rev.01 of the Article 29 Working Party,2 as endorsed by the EDPB, provides for the required
elements for BCRs for processors, including the Intra-Company Agreement where applicable, and the
application  form. WP265 of  the  Article 29 Working Party,  as  endorsed  by  the EDPB,  provides  for
recommendations  to  the  applicants  to  help  them  demonstrate  how  to  meet  the  requirements  of
article 47 GDPR  and WP257 rev01.  The  EDPB  is  subject  to  Regulation 1049/2001 pursuant  to
article 76(2) GDPR.

(5) Taking into account the specific characteristics of BCRs provided for by Article 47(1) and (2), each
application should be addressed individually and is without prejudice to the assessment of any other
Binding Corporate Rules. The EDPB recalls that BCRs should be customised to take account of the
structure of the group of companies that they apply to, the processing they undertake and the policies
and procedures that they have in place to protect personal data.3

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted, pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with Article
10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, within eight weeks after the Chair has decided that the file is
complete. Upon decision of the EDPB Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks, taking
into account the complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

4.

In accordance with the cooperation procedure as set out in WP263 rev.01, the draft Processor BCRs of
Reinsurance Group of America were reviewed by the Irish Data Protection Commission (hereinafter
Irish Supervisory Authority) as the BCRs Lead SA.

The Irish Supervisory Authority has submitted its draft decision regarding the draft Processor BCRs of
Reinsurance Group of America, requesting an opinion of the EDPB pursuant to Article 64(1)(f) GDPR
on 18/02/2020. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 26/03/2020.

2 ASSESSMENT

The EDPB notes that the Reinsurance Group of America has only provided one Intra Group Agreement
(IGA), common to both the Controller BCR and Processor BCR. Since Reinsurance Group of America
has provided two different sets of BCRs and Annexes, and the IGA makes a clear distinction in its
relevant provisions, the EDPB considers that no further documents need to be submitted in this regard.

The Reinsurance Group of America draft Processor BCRs apply to processing of personal data carried
out, within the group, by members of the Group acting as a Processor on behalf of and under the
instructions of a non-RGA Controller and where such personal data originates in the EEA. Concerned

2 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found
in Binding Corporate Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 257 rev.01.
3 This view was expressed by the Article 29 Working party in Working Document Setting up a framework for the
structure of Binding Corporate Rules, adopted on 24 June 2008, WP154.

Adopted

4

data subjects include individuals who are parties to or beneficiaries of primary individual or group
insurance  and  pension  policies,  as  well  as current  and  past  employees,  job  applicants,  individual
consultants, independent  contractors and  job  applicants  that  RGA  may  process  on  behalf  of  the
Controller.

The Reinsurance  Group  of  America draft Processor BCRs have been scrutinised according  to  the
procedures  set  up  by  the EDPB.  The SAs assembled within the  EDPB  have concluded that  the
Reinsurance Group of America draft Processor BCRs contain all elements required under Article 47
GDPR and WP257 rev01, in concordance with the draft decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority
submitted to the EDPB for an opinion. Therefore, the EDPB does not have any concerns, which need
to be addressed.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

Taking into account the above and the commitments that the group members will undertake by signing
Reinsurance Group  of  America’s Intra-Group Agreement  on  Binding  Corporate  Rules,  the EDPB
considers that the draft decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority may be adopted as it is, since those
Rules  ensure  appropriate  safeguards  to  ensure  that  the  level  of  protection  of  natural  persons
guaranteed  by  this  Regulation  is  not  undermined  when  personal  data  will  be  transferred  to  and
processed by the group members based in third countries. Finally, the EDPB also recalls the provisions
contained within Article 47(2)(k) GDPR and WP 257 rev.01 providing the conditions under which the
applicant may modify or update the BCRs, including updates to the list of BCRs group members.

4 FINAL REMARKS

This  opinion  is  addressed  to  the Irish Supervisory  Authority and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to
Article 64(5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64(7) and (8) GDPR, the Irish Supervisory Authority shall communicate its response
to this opinion to the Chair within two weeks after receiving the opinion.

Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the Irish Supervisory Authority shall communicate the final decision
to  the EDPB for  inclusion  in  the  register of  decisions  which  have  been  subject  to  the consistency
mechanism.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

5

