1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00079/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 27, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against G.L.P. Instalaciones 86, S.L., with NIF

B66161126 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states that on June 28, 2019 he called the number of
commercial telephone number of the Naturgy entity to request a quote for the
carrying out an air conditioning installation in their home, they took their
data and he was informed that the company would contact him shortly
Naturgy collaborator.

Thus, two companies contacted him and both

presented as collaborators of Naturgy.

Having numerous problems with the one claimed by the facility, he filed
claim before Naturgy, their response was that they had not sent him and that they did not
was your authorized installer.

Taking the foregoing into account, you do not know how the company obtained your personal data.

claimed entity.

SECOND: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the LOPGDD, which
has provided for a mechanism prior to the admission to processing of the claims that are
formulated before the AEPD, consisting of transferring them to the Protection Delegates of
Data designated by those responsible or in charge of processing, for the purposes
provided for in article 37 of the aforementioned rule, or to these when there are none
designated, the claim was transferred to the claimed entity within the framework of the
file E/11288/2019, by means of a document signed on November 27, 2019 to
to proceed with its analysis and respond to the complaining party and this Agency
within a month.

The document was notified to the respondent electronically, being the date of
acceptance of the notification on the same day, as evidenced by the certificate issued
by the FNMT that is in the file.

After the period granted to the respondent without having responded to the
request for information, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(LOPDGDD), on 03/03/2020, the agreement for admission to processing of the
this claim.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

THIRD: On June 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against G.L.P.
Instalaciones 86, S.L., by virtue of the powers established in art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Protection
of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), by the
infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and
considered very serious in 72.1.b), for prescription purposes, setting a sanction
initial payment of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros).

FOURTH: The Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure was notified to the entity
claimed electronically being the date of availability June 9,
2020 and the automatic rejection date on the 20th day of the same month and year, as
accredits the certificate issued by the FNMT that is in the file.

FIFTH
 : Formal notification of the start agreement, the claim at the time of the
 
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is recorded that the claimant, on June 28, 2019, called the number of
commercial attention of the Naturgy entity to request a quote, they took their data
and two companies contacted him and both presented themselves as
Naturgy collaborators.

The file shows that the company chosen by the claimant was G.L.P.

Facilities 86, S.L.

Having numerous problems with G.L.P. Instalaciones 86, S.L. for the
installation, filed a claim with Naturgy, their response was that they did not
they had sent and that he was not your authorized installer.

SECOND: On December 27, 2019, Naturgy states to this Agency
that the entity claimed is not a collaborating company of this company and therefore
Therefore, Naturgy did not communicate any customer data.

THIRD: On June 8, 2020, this sanctioning procedure was initiated by the
violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD (legality of the treatment), being notified on the 20th
of the same month and year. Not having made allegations, the respondent, to the agreement
Of start.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The General Data Protection Regulation deals in article 5 with the
principles that must govern the processing of personal data and mentions among
them that of "legality, loyalty and transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party;”

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

conditions:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD is typified in article 83
of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative”, says:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72.1.b) qualifies this infraction, for the purposes
of prescription, as a very serious infraction.

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it processed the personal data
of the claimant (name, surnames, NIF, telephone, correspondence address,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

address of the object of the contract, bank account, Email), without having legitimacy for the
treatment of the claimant's data.

It should be remembered that article 5 of the RGPD, after alluding in its section
1 to the principles relating to the processing of personal data -among them, as
has pointed out in the preceding Basis, that of "legality"-, it says in its section 2:

“The person responsible for the treatment will be responsible for compliance with the

provided in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Well, with respect to the facts that are the subject of this claim,
We must emphasize that the defendant, despite the repeated requests he received from the
AEPD to explain the facts on which it deals, never responded or
provided any evidence that would allow estimating that the treatment of the data of the
claimant had been legitimate.

We refer in this regard to the request for information that the AEPD
addressed the defendant in the framework of E/11288/2019. Request whose receipt by him
It is proven (certificate issued by the FNMT) that it happened on November 27
of 2019.

However, no response was received and dated March 3 of this year

It was agreed to admit the claim for processing.

Reminder that, circumscribed to the violation of article 6.1. of the RGPD, has
purpose is to show that the defendant has had plenty of opportunities
to provide evidence or documents proving that, contrary to the
statements and documentary evidence provided by the claimant, the treatment of
data that is subject to assessment in this case was adjusted to law.

The lack of diligence displayed by the entity in complying with the
obligations imposed by the personal data protection regulations
it is therefore evident. Diligent compliance with the principle of legality in the treatment
of third-party data requires that the data controller be in a position
to prove it (principle of proactive responsibility)

In short, there is evidence in the file that the defendant dealt with the
personal data of the claimant without legitimacy to do so. The behavior described
violates article 6.1. of the RGPD and is subsumable in the sanctioning type of the article
83.5.a, of the RGPD.

III

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the precautions

 
visions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

5/7

each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

  In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed on the person claimed as responsible for an infraction
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, they are considered concurrent in this
case, as aggravating factors, the following factors:

- The lack of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the infraction and

mitigate its effects (article 83.2.f, of the RGPD)

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name,
surnames, NIF, telephone, correspondence address, object address
of the contract, bank account, Email) (article 83.2 g).

In this case, the following factor is considered as a mitigating factor:

- Taking into account the annual turnover (article 83.2 k and 76.2 c)

LOPDGDD).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE G.L.P. INSTALACIONES 86, S.L., with NIF B66161126, by
an infringement of article 6.1. of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
RGPD, a fine of €60,000 (sixty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to G.L.P. INSTALLATIONS 86, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

