1/40

 File No.: PS/00218/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: CLAIMANT (appears in the GENERAL ANNEX) (hereinafter, the complaining party),
dated 06/22/2020, files a claim with the AEPD. The claim is directed against
EUROVILLAS CONSERVATION COLLABORATING URBAN DEVELOPMENT ENTITY, with NIF
G79414033, at calle ***DIRIMIENTO.1, Madrid (hereinafter, the claimed party). The motives
on which the claim is based are that the respondent established a daily registration system for
employees' workday through facial recognition (RF) technique.

Manifests:

-On 02/13/2020, the respondent installed a time registration system in the workplace
“by fingerprint”, modifying the prior use of the card. The representation of
employees sent a letter on 02/17/2020, of which a copy is attached as DOCUMENT 1,
signed by the claimant and two other employees, as "Delegates XXXXXXXXXX", in the
that mention that compliance with article 9.2.b) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016, regarding
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
the free circulation of these data (hereinafter GDPR); and that the measure has been taken without
having communicated or negotiated with the workers' representatives, requesting that they
switch to other systems.

-On 02/17/2020, the respondent handed in a communication from the system
implanted "tactile recognition", with start-up indication on 03/01/2020.

-In a letter from the respondent on the same date, 02/17/2020, he replied to the claimant's
17/02 indicating that "there is no obligation to obtain consent since the system
system implemented pursues legitimate interests on the part of the company”, “given that
the labor legislation obliges to record the number of hours that the workers perform
 
 yes”, and
that "the use of the cards that had been used caused fraud in the management and therefore
They were not adequate means to the end pursued. Accompany DOCUMENT 3 with the
received, which verifies these claims.

-The claimant wrote to the respondent on 03/11/2020, requesting:

“Characteristics of the treatment, form of storage and responsible for the custody,
way in which the records of working hours will be available, both for workers and
for their representatives.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/40

Accompanying DOCUMENT 4 containing the response of 03/12/2020, indicating that the
Responsible for the data is the person appointed by the company to process the data of the users.
workers and that due to the situation created by the "coronavirus", the
change the current time registration system, “for one of facial vectors, in which case,
would store a photograph, just like the system used with cards
previous”.
 
-The claimant states that on 04/30/2020, the respondent communicates a change in the
system of time records originated by the COVID-19 disease and that will be implemented at
as of 05/06/2020. It consists of the identification of the personnel by data of their own face,
“through facial vectorization” ”This system works from the identification of a
percentage of features extracted from the face, without taking a three-dimensional image
of the faces “we understand that this measure is less invasive than the recording of the moment
of signing by camera, which also involved physical contact with a card reader
shared. The sole purpose of this data is the signing of personnel and analysis of the times of
work for compliance with decree law 8/2019, in order to analyze the data in taking
of decisions and the defense of their legitimate interests. These data will be found in the
servers of this entity, in no case in the cloud”. Accompanies DOCUMENT 6.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), on 07/7/2020, said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of:

“1. The decision adopted regarding this claim.
2. Report on the causes that gave rise to the incident that gave rise to the claim.
3. Risk Analysis and Impact Assessment Study related to data processing
personal object of the claim.
4. Base of legitimacy of said treatment and justification.
5. Report on the measures adopted to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.
6. Any other that you consider relevant.”

On 08/05/2020, this Agency received a written response indicating:

1) It is an "administrative entity" "dependent on" the Community of Madrid, although with
its own legal personality and full capacity for autonomy to fulfill its
purposes, in accordance with the law and the Bylaws, and which basically consist of the
conservation of free spaces of public domain and use, and in its case of private ones, and
the maintenance of the endowments such as facilities and infrastructures of the urbanization.

The nature of "administrative entity" is expressly included in article 26.1 of the Royal
Decree 3288/1978, of 08/25, which approves the Urban Management Regulation
for the development and application of the Law on Land Regime and Urban Planning
(RGU) “the collaborating urban entities will have an administrative and
They will depend in this order on the acting urban administration”.

Provides a copy of its Statutes, the current version of which is published in the BOCM of
05/29/2014. The following provisions are considered important for the case:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/40

“Art 1- A collaborating urban entity of an administrative nature is constituted with
own legal personality and full legal capacity from its registration in the registry of
collaborating urban entities of the Ministry competent in urban matters of
the Community of Madrid.”

This conservation entity was established on a mandatory basis by virtue of the
determinations of the special plan city of the Americas, today Euro Villas, approved
definitively on March 23, 1988 and will be composed of all the owners
included in its territorial scope.

The conservation entity shall be governed by the provisions of these statutes and in what is not
foreseen by them by articles 24 to 30 and 68 to 70 of the RGU of August 25, 1978 and
other concordant and complementary provisions.

 “Article 3, object: This entity has as its object the conservation of the urbanized work, of
the free spaces of public domain and use and, where appropriate, of the private ones and the maintenance
of the endowments and installations of urban services and infrastructures in accordance with
the provisions of article 32 of these statutes.”

Article 4 indicates the purposes basically of execution of works necessary for the
repair and maintenance whose conservation is necessary in terms of the use and utilization of
the goods and services.

Article 5 establishes: "To the Ministry competent in urban matters as
acting administration corresponds to the following functions: approve the text of the
statutes for the constitution of the conservation entity, approve the constitution of the
conservation entity for registration in the registry. In section c it is indicated that without
prejudice to the fact that the acting administration is the Ministry of Public Works and Urbanism
and Transportation, will correspond to the Municipalities in which the
urbanization, the use of the enforcement procedure for the collection of amounts owed
by any of the members of the Conservation Entity. In section d) it indicates that
It corresponds to the acting administration to resolve the appeals against agreements of
the entity, as well as agreeing the dissolution of the entity in the cases contemplated in the
article 40 of the statutes and any other powers resulting from urban planning legislation
and autonomous.”

Article 19 establishes as powers and functions of the Governing Council, the appointment and
separation of personnel and indication of their work regime and the administration of the
entity.

2) The entity has its own equipment, machinery and personnel to undertake its
tasks of conservation and maintenance of the infrastructures and the public domain of the
organization. “It brings together some 4,000 owners of plots on which there are
built around 3,000 single-family homes that are inhabited by a
population greater than 10,000 inhabitants.

Currently, the staff is made up of 38 workers who provide their services in
some cases on a shift basis, with emergency services that cover a
attention 24 hours a day. The review of these personnel and the verification of their attendance
to the workplace has always been subject to control. “A few years ago he signed up”, then he

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/40

made use of individual cards, but when fraud was detected with the cards that were left to
other employees, "a file system was established" by means of fingerprints and
subsequently, due to the risks of COVID-19, the system was changed to RF.

3) “The registration of working hours is mandatory for the company by virtue of article
34.9 of the Workers' Statute”. “Given the right and at the same time the obligation that the
Entity to keep a control and record of the workers' day that is reliable, the
system implemented is effective and proportional, as well as the most appropriate to guarantee
the health of workers, in these times of pandemic.” “The basis of legitimacy for the
The treatment of these data is given by the existing employment contract with the users (art.
6.1.b GDPR); the legal obligation to carry out a record of the working hours of employees
employees of the Entity (art. 6.1.c) and the company's own need to control employees
workers (art. 6.1. f), so that the Entity itself can perform the functions of
public interest entrusted to it given its nature as a public administration (art. 6.
1.e).”

4) The systems used by the entity in no case keep images or photographs
of the fingerprint or face of the person, but they are biometric systems in which to
its operation do not use images of fingerprints or faces, but mere descriptions of
these that are translated into the takings of various minutiae or patterns of the drawing of the footprint of the
face. Therefore, the system only takes a few minutiae or special features
concrete, in general the position or dimensions, elements of the footprint or the face
fundamentally, that they do not allow to reconstruct from them the imprint or the face of a
person, so they consider that they do not allow the unequivocal identification of the most
than within a small group of people such as the entity's staff. "The system
is installed on a separate, password-protected computer to which you only have
access a person and that the statistical biometric data, are encrypted, are not
removable, nor knowable, because they are part of the program itself, without being able to be used to
no other purpose.” You understand that you are acting at all times in accordance with the law.

THIRD: On 09/04/2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
agreed to admit the claim for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts in question, in
under the investigative powers granted to the supervisory authorities in article
58.1 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Section
second, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

It asked the respondent to provide the risk analysis, the impact assessment of the
treatment of biometric data and system characteristics.
On 10/29/2020, it was answered that "this claim has already been answered in the
within the procedure of transfer and admission of the claim.”

FIFTH: On 09/02/2021, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/40

 URBAN DEVELOPMENT ENTITY
“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE
EUROVILLAS CONSERVATION COLLABORATOR, with NIF G79414033, by the
alleged infringement:

-Of article 9.2.b) in relation to 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD

-From article 35 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.”

(…)

“THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the
sanctions that could correspond would be fines of 100,000 euros, and 20 thousand euros,
as specified, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.”

SIXTH: On 09/17/2021, allegations are received in which the respondent states:

1- It is considered to be included in section d) of article 77.1 of the LOPDGDD as a
public entity and public law entity linked to or dependent on the administrations
public”, for which a sanction of warning would proceed in his case. Considers,
furthermore, that it does not matter whether or not the public entity is carrying out a public activity,
because the regulations regulate the possibility of sanctioning for what it is, an administration
public, and not by the activity that is carried out. The cited article states that the “
Public Administrations will be sanctioned with a warning for the mere fact of being,
and as long as they meet that condition, without the legal system establishing that this only
will happen when they perform public functions, which is an expansive interpretation, or more
well, an "ex novo" legal creation of that Agency, given that it lacks any legal support and
There is no norm that gives rise, even to that interpretation, without, on the other hand, the
infractions of which the Entity is accused can be considered as private law.”

It is immaterial whether the labor contracting of the entity's workers is of a
private. It indicates that it makes no sense to separate which spheres the activity can affect, given
the administrative raison d'être of the entity itself and its public functions that it performs. I do not know that
before an issue of a labor nature, but "when faced with a matter of data protection,
that must be fulfilled by the administrative entity in the exercise of its public activity and
with the intervention of its operating governing bodies, whose activity is subject to
administrative law."

Decisions related to dismissals, staff organization, and any matter
employment, are adopted by the Governing Board, all these issues being subject to the
administrative law, and may be challenged in appeal before the CCAA of Madrid or via
contentious (art 38 of the Statutes). “The situation is similar to what happens with the
claims of delinquent owners of the entity, in which the Supreme Court has
said that it is only competent for its knowledge in the contentious jurisdiction-
administrative”. For example, the decision of 05/30/2012, resource 203/2009. Notes that
even when the employees sue the entity for employment, given the nature of
public administration of the same, they do not have to carry out acts of prior conciliation
indicated in articles 63 and 64 in relation to 69.1 of the law of social jurisdiction, which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/40

which shows that it is not a private relationship that exists with said employees of the
entity.

2- "The initiation of the sanctioning procedure is by the facial recognition system,
implemented according to that Agency, since May 6, 2021. With this, it is being recognized
the validity of the fingerprint recognition system that previously had
implanted the Entity.” “It is therefore, the change of the system, of fingerprint recognition
fingerprint to facial, which would generate the infractions that are attributed to the Entity.” Considers
that if the fingerprint takes the minutiae, in the RF, it is done on the face, being in both cases
Likewise, they do not serve to uniquely identify a person. It is not about data
special character because no images or photographs of the face are preserved, which for its
operation use "mere descriptions of these", "patterns of drawing the face",
position or dimensions of elements that do not allow to reconstruct from them the face of
a person, "which could also coincide in many other people, so they do not
allow the unequivocal identification of the subject, rather than within a small group of
people, such as the entity's staff”. Data stored on a computer is
only accessible to one person, being encrypted and encrypted. Consider that it would not be
application of the prohibition of article 9.1 of the RGPD because "biometric data is not previously
aimed at unequivocally identifying a natural person.”
Therefore, not being data of a special nature, it is not mandatory to provide the Evaluation of
Impact established in article 35 of the RGPD.

3-The main cause and context that motivated the change of a time registration system for
fingerprint to one of RF, was due to the extraordinary and serious situation derived from the alert
due to the pandemic, “which endangers the health and even the lives of workers
of the Entity, and with it, that the Entity can fulfill its purposes and obligations.” Tasks
carried out by its personnel affect public health-cleaning, wading streets,
maintenance of the sanitation network, lighting, etc., along with disinsection that
it affected 10,000 residents, who at that time were coming out of confinement. I know
he intended not to touch the fingerprint reader and put his finger on the sensor. consider proportional the
system as it is a reliable and effective system, and the most appropriate to guarantee the health of
the employees.

4- Considers that the basis of legitimacy of the treatment is given by

-“The employment contract with users, art 6.1.b) of the RGPD
- The legal obligation to carry out a record of the working hours of employees.

employees of the entity, art 6.1.c) of the RGPD

-the very need of the company to control the workers (art. 6.1. f), of
so that the Entity itself can perform the functions of public interest that it has
entrusted, given its character of public administration (art. 6. 1.e).”

5- “With the improvement of the epidemiological situation, we have returned to the card transfer system,
Although negotiations are under way."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/40

6- In the agreement, it is analyzed as the only possibility of legality of the treatment, the labor,
contemplated in letter 2.b) of article 9 of the RGPD, concluding that it does not proceed for three
issues:
a) It is said that it is not justified that the treatment through RF is necessary for the
compliance with labor obligations such as the registration of working hours and this
because that control had already been carried out previously with the card system. Considers
said system change was necessary because the cards were lent by some employees to
others.

b) Letters g) and h) of article 9.2 of the RGPD, by themselves, individually, and more
in relation to each other, with letter b), would justify special treatment, given the
extraordinary pandemic situation that we have experienced and that has been exposed. the letter g)
enables in the event that it is "necessary for purposes of essential public interest", being
prevent the spread of COVID an essential public interest, with recommendations for
there was no interpersonal contact or contact with surfaces. Also note that the letter
h) better enables the treatment, "it is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine",
being that the purpose that has moved the change of the system of hour records, to avoid the
infections among the entity's workforce.

7- It is said that the negotiation or consultation with the staff representatives was not respected,
but this was not the case, as it was reported, negotiated and finally maintenance was chosen
of facial registration while the pandemic lasted, and it should also be noted that "the
representatives of the workers never wanted to make a claim before the
AEPD, but simply make a query”.

8- The defendant is an entity that provides public service, non-profit. acted with
encouragement to protect the health of its staff, in order to ensure that it could provide its
service that qualifies as essential during confinement, among a staff, which was affected
high spread of the disease. For all these reasons, he considers that he cannot
consider the defendant guilty. It adds, that in addition the sanction is disproportionate, for:

a) in the infringement of article 9.2.b) in relation to 6.1 of the RGPD, considers that
can produce the aggravating:
- of 83.2.a) of the RGPD, since the infringement is already of a very serious nature, "it cannot be used
that same intrinsic gravity in the infringement itself to add an aggravating circumstance to it”
“You are being sanctioned twice for the same conduct.”
-from 83.2. b) of the RGPD for the same reason, the negligence is already incorporated in the type that is
sanctions, assuming a fictitious sum of aggravations that is not appropriate.
-of article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD, does not consider it relevant, since it is not an entity with
great experience in data processing with these special characteristics.
-of article 83.2.k) of the RGPD, being again an aggravating circumstance already included in the sanction as
very serious, not contemplating the cause that is manifested as an aggravating circumstance in the aforementioned article
b) In the violation of article 35 of the RGPD, some of the issues that are indicated as
aggravating circumstances of the infraction, would already be incorporated in this same infraction, again
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/40

they are being punished twice, so it would be the same conduct or sanctioning reproach and
Specifically, it considers that the aggravating factors cannot be caused by:
-article 83.2.b) by a qualified degree of degree of diligence, as it does not contemplate any type
of analysis on the treatment, which is maintained during the processing of the transfer,
continuing to carry out the treatment (93.2.1 of the RGPD). “If what is punished is not
have carried out an impact assessment, because it is considered that before implementing a
facial recognition system, that this must be done, cannot be considered aggravating
not having done the analysis or the evaluation itself”.
Considers should be assessed, as mitigating factors:
- The situation of serious national health emergency and exceptionality (with states of
alarm) derived from the pandemic experienced. It cannot be ignored that we are talking about the month
May 2020, full state of alarm with home confinement situation. The
ultimate claim and that motivates the change of system to RF was the fight against the pandemic and
guarantee or at least reduce the chances of contagion of the workforce.
He considers that the sanctions are not even in due proportion to each other:
They propose 100,000.00 euros and 20,000.00 euros. Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, applicable
to the first infringement, refers to 4% of the turnover in the case of companies and
with a maximum possible total of 20 million euros, while in 83.4 of the RGPD
applicable to serious sanctions, this percentage is reduced to 2% with a maximum of 10
millions of euros. Since a sanction is very serious, it should be twice as serious,
however, the very serious sanction is five times the serious one, reaching 100,000.00 euros
when double the grave would be 40,000.00 euros.
Taking into account that it is a non-profit administrative entity, it must be reduced to
at least a quarter, ranging between 25,000.00 euros for the very serious and
12,500.00 euros for the serious one, although this is said on a subsidiary basis, given that neither
there is an infraction, nor if there is, can it be sanctioned financially, being the right thing to do
with warning.

SEVENTH: On 03/21/2022, a test practice period begins, giving
reproduced for evidentiary purposes the filed claim and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated during the claim admission phase, and
the report of previous investigative actions that are part of the procedure
E/08378/2020. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the
agreement to initiate the aforementioned sanctioning procedure, presented by the claimed party and
the accompanying documentation.

In addition, the respondent is requested to provide and report:

a) System you are currently using to control working hours, and if you stopped
use the RF, date and accreditation of it.

On 04/04/2022, a response was received from the respondent indicating that "the system
current employee" is the cards, since he received the start agreement for "prudence" he
suspended the RF system on 09/08/2021, as soon as they acquired the cards. Provide invoice for
acquisition of 40 cards on 09/06/2021, type "RFID PAS radiofrequency proximity".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/40

b) In the brief of the respondent dated 03/12/2020, it says that “Changing the
current timestamp system by one of face vectors, in which case it would store
a photograph as well as the system that was used with the cards”. Explain the meaning and
purpose of the underlined within the implanted RF system.

He states that what he means is that “there are no significant variations between the system
of cards and that of facial vectors, the purpose being to explain it to the delegates
XXXXXXXXXX. In any case, that letter only referred to a possibility
that was being shuffled. Therefore, when it is written, it is not yet known what it consists of.
really the system.

c) If the collection of facial images for registration was made with images (photographs)
of the employees previously used, or with the presence of the employees.

It states that with face-to-face action. “The same team that does the reconnaissance,
To do this, it previously captures the vectors that it is going to use on the employee himself. The
data or facial minutes, are captured, enter, are encrypted, are used by the device and do not leave
of it, without being able to be used for any other purpose, or extracted. The device only reports
externally to a single computer equipment of the entity: the date, time and name of the
verified person.

d) Identification of the technological support acquired for the technical operation of the system
And what does it consist of. Adding the elements that compose it, and if the services were contracted
system management with a provider. If the system has any type certification
ISO on biometric data. Copy of the data processing management contract by
charge.

It states that "a complete system was acquired, a compact unit, reading machine and
that processes the information and that carries its own program”. “The supplier does not have access or
was hired to manage anything in the system.”

In the invoice provided by document 2, it appears: 03/31/2020, equipment amounting to 375 euros
”SAFIER face control and facial access equipment, VSFTCT2MTFN3A “SOFTWARE
PRESENTIAL MANAGEMENT SAFIRE CONTROL CENTER” made in China, model SF-
AC3062KEMR-IP according to the brochure that is attached in document 4 in which the device is seen, and the
literal:
“Access and presence control- Facial recognition and EM card-1,600 faces, 2,500
cards and 50,000 registers, TCP/IP, USB and WIFI communication, integrated controller,
SAFIRE CONTROL CENTER AC software, Autonomous biometric reader for control of
Access."
It is also accompanied as part of the brochure the literal "specifications" that describes a
item description.
The image of the device “HIKVISION”, “DS-K1T9105 Series” is accompanied with the brochure
facial recognition terminal that informs that it works with a learning algorithm
can work as multiple authentication mode 1:N face pairing, IC
card authentication, etc. It also indicates the "characteristics"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/40

On 04/26/2022, a GOOGLE search for “SAFIRE CONTROL CENTER AC SOFTWARE
existing among others the address:

“Safire Control Center AC Software

https://svtclti.com › manuals › SAFIRE-HIKVISION”, where by clicking the “manual
user SAFIRE CONTROL CENTER CONTROL access”. Title the manual version 2019 V1.0
build 07082019, of 114 pages in the pdf, which is incorporated into the procedure to complete
tests. On the same day, 04/26/2022, a copy of said access and the complete manual are sent to the
claimed. The manual contains the same aspects detailed in the brochures provided by the
claimed, detailing the system of operation and multiple and varied configurations
possible.

The manual, as well as the brochure that provides the claimed, informs that it has: sensor
of activation auto activation by infrared, 2 MP camera with double sensor of
facial recognition, TCP/IP communication, USB, RS485, Wi-Fi, Weight: 400 gr.-Modes of
pin identification, card, facial recognition and combinations, integrated controller,
bell push button door sensor and relay. It appears as an option to incorporate a photo as
face, take a photo from the software, or capture faces from the camera control device.
accesses, in order to verify if the facial recognition device administered in the
software can recognize the face from the photo. The image of the compact device and a
only piece of the user manual that provides the one claimed in document 4 “face recognition
terminal” is a facial recognition terminal in which it is indicated that it “adopts algorithms
deep learning, which help to recognize the face faster and with more certainty.
It also supports multiple authentication modes: 1:N face match, IC card authentication,
etc. Note that the duration of facial recognition is no more than one second per
person and the recognition accuracy rate is more than 99%.
e) Method of collection, registration and storage of the data of the employees used
for the RF. Environment in which the system face comparison occurs and if there is a
single point for it or several.

He states that "it is the equipment that takes the vectors", there is only one point and the
environment is the equipment itself

f) Type of technology used for storage and operation of the RF, server,
algorithm used and functions it performs.

"You buy the software that goes inside the equipment."

g) Regarding the reading of the data and positive identification, indicate the mode of
operation and its synchronization, existing reading points of the data for the collation of
the image and distribution in which these reading terminals are found. Specify, if when
face is presented, where is the employee's stored template against which
the presented image is collated.? (if it is in the reader, in a database, features
of these.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/40

He states that "there was only one reader at the entrance with the team that is also one." The team
It has the built-in program. The vectors are in the team, which is totally autonomous.
The entity only sees: day, time and identity of the verified person. Nobody can see anything else.”

h) Indicate what happens if you do not recognize the face that is presented to you, and if you would store the template
of that person.

He states that nothing happens, because the device does not detect the vectors, he considers him not
logged and does not store anything.

Yo)
 What connections does the computer database have with the data of the face that is
filed by employees, with employment data? Registry Association System
the face to the identity of the person. If the database is stored on servers, type of
server and location and ownership.

It states that it is not a computer as such, but "a fully integrated team, autonomous in its
functioning and independent. "To the assigned team of the ECE- the system only admits one-
the only information that arrives is the day, time and name or identity of the recognized employee
by the system.”

j) Information system for each employee on the collection and processing of their data
provided, containing the purpose, legitimate basis and exercise of data rights
derivatives of the RF, and the way to prove its effective availability.

It states that it was reported at a staff meeting and they were ratified personally and
individualized when they went to take the photo, clarifying the questions, which in their case
could raise, which were few.

k) Accreditation that the time control system through the card was used
improperly.

States that the inappropriate use of time cards by some employees
it is not easy to prove this being the problem that allows fraud to be carried out in the registry
schedule without being detected. They provide document 5, a letter from an employee to the Governing Council,
and the agenda of the "personal assembly" of 02/18/2020 that contains at one point of the day
"information on the record of working hours" in which the matter that is
addressed this issue for allegedly passing another colleague's card on 01/30/2020 and
having received a reprimand, indicating "in relation to the assertions that some
companion has done", denies the facts, and states that when they were in line
several colleagues waiting in order in front of him, "he has given us his card and the
we have gone through the reader, but never without being present”.

l) Copy of the time control record sheet generated by an employee in order to see the
data that is marked, and reported, if the system was also used for other people, or with
other purposes.

Indicates that the system was only used for the purpose of time recording. They accompany a
copy of a record of an anonymized employee as document number 6 appreciating
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/40

that for that person, the records can be grouped by days of the week, showing the
Hourly records noted with several entries and exits on some days.

m) Image sketch of spaces in which the devices for taking the video are located.
face for the registration of the day, explaining if there are interruptions of working time
effective and whether you have to re-register your face each time you enter or exit or
How would the pause system work?

It indicates that when the system was implemented, it did collect the stops or breaks because
contact with surfaces through the hands was not needed.

It states that there is only one device according to the accompanying sketch. “It is located in
a table, in a small room designed for this purpose, which is accessed from a patio by a
gate. It is appreciated that the system would be limited to presenting the face to the device and returning to
exit where you entered, as a presence record and that would capture date, time and data
of the employee.

n) Threshold value at which the software indicates that there has been a coincidence between the two
facial images that are compared, and what recommendation for this case does the manufacturer give.

Indicates that it is unknown, since “software was purchased from a third-party vendor.”

o) Copy of the record of treatment activities: "time control by acknowledgment
facial" in document 8, appearing as purpose: "time control of employees through
facial recognition”.

Legitimation: “existing employment contract with users. article 6. b) RGPD, obligation
legal requirement to register the working hours of employees, article 6.c), the need to
control of the workers: article 6. f), fulfillment through the personnel of the functions
of public interest entrusted: article 6.e)

“Categories of data minutiae of the face without output of the reading team day and time of reading
name and surname of the employee
Transfer of data: they are not foreseen except in the case of labor administration and labor courts.
Only data reported by the team

Storage period minimum four years, maximum 10 years, the data reported by the
reading team. Minutiae of the face, are eliminated at the end of the employment relationship.

Security measures: encryption of the minutiae of the face and watertight data retention
in the team.

p) From your point of view, what meaning do you give to the expression “biometric system
statistics" to which he alludes in some of his writings.

Indicates that this is information given by the manufacturer about how the treatment works.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/40

Indicates that the system only collects specific minutiae or special characteristics, in
general position or dimensions of elements of the footprint or the face fundamentally
that do not allow to build the own imprint or the face of a person. It's about standing out
that the photograph of the person is not saved in the system but some special details and
with the statistical term that they are differentiating only within their own comparative group-
the entity's employees.

q) What interests and rights of employees, and security measures for their data are
taken into account in the establishment of the RF system.

It states that the interest for the establishment has been the health of the staff, taking the
measure in the context of a pandemic, confinement and fight against COVID, trying to avoid
infections derived from the use of palm cards.
As far as security measures are concerned, it is once again insisted that the device is watertight and
autonomous so there is no circulation of data or minutiae that the face takes.
In addition, it encrypts the data, so that it cannot be used by anyone, or for anything. The
apparatus takes the minutiae of the differentiating face, compared to the rest that has
of the group, encrypts them, and processes them, keeping them to make the identifications and only
reports the result, consisting of day, time and identity of the person, without these minutiae
circulate, nor are they used for anything, nor can they be used for other purposes.

r) Agreement approving the establishment of the RF system for time control.

Provides a copy of document 9, a certificate indicating that at the meeting of the Governing Council of
the Entity on 03/31/2020, the agreement of:

“The president informs that, given the expansion of the COVID-19 virus, and in order to avoid the
proliferation of contagions among the workers of this entity, who proceed daily to the
signing within their working day, another registration system would have to be determined.
After a long debate on the matter, it is unanimously agreed to proceed to the
acquisition of a facial biometric system for access control, thus eliminating the
possibility of any physical contact with said system.

s) Who is the owner of the facilities, urbanized public domain on which the
obligation to conserve of that entity, and if it took part in the decision to use the
RF.

Indicates that the owner of some of the facilities, such as the land and
buildings in which the offices of the entity itself are located is this same.

Other facilities such as roads, the sanitation network, green spaces, or
any facility or public domain space, are owned by the City Councils of
*** LOCATION.1 and from Nuevo Baztán.

“The City Councils did not participate in the decision-making, since they are part of the Council
but no vote.

t) What functions of the public ones that are attributed to it are exercised when deciding the use of
technical devices for the collection of data based on RF of the employees for their
time check.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/40

It states that the conservation of public domain facilities of the
urbanization, which are put into practice and carried out through its employees of
in accordance with the bylaws of the entity.
They reiterate their consideration, already made in the allegations that it is the person, that is, the
entity as a public administrative entity and not the activity it carries out - which considers it
also public administrative - which determines the possibility of imposing a type of sanction
or another, without the possibility of making expansive interpretations on those established by law and
less to impose a sanction.

EIGHTH: On 05/03/2022, a resolution proposal is issued for the literal:
"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is sanctioned with
warning to CONSERVATION COLLABORATING URBANISTIC ENTITY
EUROVILLAS, with NIF G79414033, for breaches of the RGPD:

-article 9.2.b) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and in 72.1. e) of the
LOPDGDD.

-article 35 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 a) of the RGPD and in 73.t) of the
LOPDGDD.”

Allegations are received on 05/17/2022, in which it indicates:

- The proposal does not explain what constitutes the unequivocal identification that makes the data
are considered special. To be before a special category of personal data,
we not only have to deal with biometric data, but with biometric data aimed at
unambiguously or uniquely identify a person. Not considered special data
means that no impact assessment is required.
unequivocal

- The statement that “they do not use images of faces, but
descriptions of these that are translated into certain patterns of the drawing of the face” and that the
system only takes “position or dimensions of the face that do not allow to reconstruct the face of
the person, which could coincide in many other people so they do not allow the
unequivocal identification of the subject, rather than within a small group of people such as
is the staff of the entity” “no unequivocal identifying data of any
employee". “In the procedure, an analysis or expert opinion has not been carried out on what captures
really the reader, being the burden of proof of that Agency, so it is not
accredited that what is stated in this part is not so”. “In this sense, rejecting the
inclusion in the file as evidence of the alleged User Manual located by the
instructor on the Internet through a generic Google search, having located the
same in a link in the main web address ***URL.1 (which does not return any results), for
not know if said Manual is correct, nor have they even complained to the manufacturer or
having confirmed its correctness with it. All facts and conclusions
carried out based on said Manual cannot be considered accredited or considered correct,
since it is not evidence obtained with due guarantees of veracity and certainty.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/40

-Reiterates that if there was a cause that lifted the prohibition of the treatment if the
same special data. “The letters g) and h) of article 9.2 of the RGPD by themselves, in a
individual and more put in relation between them with the own b) would justify the treatment”,
given the extraordinary pandemic situation experienced. “The letter h) fits better because it enables
treatment when it is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine”.

-Reiterates that it is not sufficient cause to state that before they controlled the working day with
cards, given the manipulation and fraud that have occurred "which have been explained and justified".

- “The alleged bases of legitimacy are rejected, considering that the claim is not justified.
use of a means that this Agency considers very intrusive, not keeping
proportionality, and because, in addition, previously, the control of the working day was done
by means of cards without justifying the problems that the same
presented”. “There is a legal basis for it, although that Agency ends up denying it in
based on an indeterminate legal principle: “that of proportionality”. “Proportionality”,
it is still something subjective and relative, not something clear and indubitable. You can discuss about
it. This party may accept that if the Agency considers it so, it is not justified
the treatment in attention to that judgment of proportionality between the interest of the Entity and the
employee rights, but it is quite another thing to impose a sanction.”

- It does not respond to the alleged situation, which was present at the time of the establishment of the
facial recognition, that of the extraordinary and serious health situation that endangered the
life and health of workers. Reiterates the importance of performing the functions of
employees when people spent more time than ever at home and that resulted
many affected employees, thereby wanting to prevent them from having to control the working day
with the fingerprint reader.

-Lack of guilt arising from the extraordinary and serious situation of the period in which
which the system was installed. They consider it to be non-existent. In addition, the resolution
indicates that it is the first resolution for the use of RF in the control of working hours.

PROVEN FACTS

1) On 03/12/2020, the respondent informs its 38 employees through their representatives
who, due to the coronavirus situation, is going to implement for the daily record of working hours
work day, the facial recognition (RF) system. On 04/30/2020, the respondent communicated her
establishment from 05/06/2020. Before the declaration of the pandemic, on 03/01/2020, the
The company had implemented the fingerprint system for the control of the lap time record.
labor, in the process of which he had informed the employees that the cards used previously
Previously, they were likely to be transferred to clock between employees on behalf of other
for the same function. The change to the RF, among other reasons, stated the respondent, was made
for avoiding contact with the fingerprint reader due to the spread of COVID.

2) The defendant is a collaborating conservation urban entity constituted with
obligatory character since 1988, grouping around four thousand owners, in some three thousand

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/40

single-family homes, forming a population of more than ten thousand inhabitants, according to the claim
madam).

3) The employees of the respondent provide in some cases a shift work regime, or
emergency services with attention 24 hours a day, and in addition, typical tasks related
with the purpose of the urban conservation entities: preserve the urbanization and the maintenance
maintenance of the endowments and installations of public services, by way of example:
zation of ordinary and extraordinary works and installations, tasks such as cleaning and wading
of streets, works to conserve and maintain, they can be roads (roads, sidewalks, parking)
and pedestrian network), sanitation network (collectors, sinks, treatment plants), sewage
rinsing, water supply (drinking, for irrigation, fire hydrants), supply
electricity (conduction, distribution and public lighting), and gardening and trees in
parks, gardens and public roads, furnishing and street furniture, for your use and enjoyment,
public ownership of the City Councils of ***LOCALIDAD.1 and ***LOCALIDAD.2 spaces
in which area the claimant is located.

The respondent adopted on 03/31/2020, the agreement to record the daily working day for
employees of your entity, through the use of an RF biometric system, taking into account
account the expansion of COVID-19, and in avoiding the proliferation of infections among
workers. The claimant states in the transfer that the RF is “the most suitable for
guarantee the health of workers”, “effective and proportional” without documentation that
support these claims.

4) In the register of activities of the treatment of the claimed, it appears: "time control by re-
facial knowledge” purpose: “time control of employees through fa-
cial”.

Legitimation: "existing employment contract with users article 6. b) RGPD, legal obligation
of registering the working hours of employees (article 6.c), the need to
control of the workers (article 6. f), fulfillment through the personnel of the functions
of public interest entrusted: article 6.e)”

“Data categories: minutiae of the face -without exit from the reading equipment-. day and time of
reading name and surname of the employee”.

Transfer of data: they are not foreseen except in the case of labor administration and labor courts-
only data reported by the team.

Storage period; minimum four years, maximum 10 years, the data reported by the
reading team. Minutiae of the face, are eliminated at the end of the employment relationship.

Security measures: encryption of the minutiae of the face and watertight data retention
in the team."

5) The device used by the claimed person was acquired on 03/30/2020, according to its manual, designed
do for face-to-face control and facial access, SAFIER, model SF-AC3062KEMR-IP, manufactured
in China “ 1,600 faces, 2,500 cards and 50,000 registers, TCP/IP, USB and WIFI, controller
integrated, Safire Control Center AC Software, recognition time, <0.5 sec., weight 400 gr,
2 MP camera with dual facial recognition sensor, 5 LCD touch screen, a cost of
375 euros. It appears as options, those of incorporating a photo as a face, taking a photo
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/40

of the software or capture faces from the access control device, in order to ve-
verify whether the facial recognition device managed in the software can recognize the
face from photo The image of the device provided by the claimed one is a recovery terminal
facial recognition stating that it “adopts deep learning algorithms, which
they help to recognize the face faster and with more certainty”. It also supports modes of
multiple authentication: 1:N face match, IC card authentication, etc.

The facial recognition device is installed on a computer protected with
password, to which only one person has access, the biometric data being encrypted,
not being removable. The device that carries its own software inside does its own
extract landmarks from the face after taking the picture and create a pattern. The
device has only one reader. Provides the computer of the claimed reports
on time, date and employee on each occasion that enters and leaves, for which you have to
go through the room in which the image capture occurs.

6) Technically, from the information extracted from the file, by communication of the claimed
to claimant, statements of the claimed, and documents provided, the RF system
for purposes of daily registration of working hours consists of a device placed in a
room in front of which the employees present the face and through the RF, records the time,
date and name and surname of the employee.

The software system works by extracting two-dimensional images of the face, not
preserves images or photographs of the face, but translates the taking of the photograph that
company made the employees in person to a template, with the characteristics of
the captured parameters, template that is saved in the equipment or system linked to the
name and surname of the employee. When a biometric sample of the person is captured,
when entering or exiting work, compares it with the registered templates and outputs the
time, date and the name and employee of the person who enters or leaves the day shift. In
Every time the employee has to make a break in the day, he must return to
enter the room and present the face for registration. The processed data is
on the entity's servers. According to the claim, the registered data is
stored on the same device where the registration takes place.

7) The respondent has not provided the AEPD with an assessment of the impact of data processing
RF biometrics for the registration of the daily working day of its employees, alleging
that does not process biometric data of a special nature because they do not uniquely identify
a person.

8) On information to those affected by the collection and processing of their data, containing
the purpose, legitimizing basis and exercise of rights derived from the treatment of recognition
facial treatment for the daily record of the working day, said the respondent who was informed
at a staff meeting and when they stopped by to take their picture. Figure that the claimed, in
document 6 provided by the claimant, on 04/30/2020, informs her of the implementation of the RF:
”This system works from the identification of a percentage of characteristics extracted
das of the face, without taking a three-dimensional image of the faces, we understand that this
This measure is less invasive than the recording of the moment of signing by camera, which also
more involved physical contact with a shared card reader. The sole purpose of these data
is the signing of personnel and analysis of work times for compliance with the decree
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/40

Law 8/2019, in order to analyze the data in decision-making and the defense of their interests.
be legitimate.” “These data will be found on the servers of this entity, in no case
on the cloud". On the occasion of the implantation of the previous fingerprint system for the same
purposes, the parties had exchanged writings on the use, purposes and information and con-
The claimant's disagreement with the system was evident.

9) On 09/17/2021, in pleadings to the agreement, the respondent indicated that “it has become
to the card transfer system” since receiving the initial agreement, providing an invoice
purchase of these items.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

II

The regulatory adjustment that is analyzed in terms of
to the RF system for the daily record of working hours that the respondent acknowledges has
implemented and used from 05/06/2020, until receiving the start-up agreement, with the purpose of
process the data of the 38 employees of your entity for the daily record of the working day,
obligation imposed in article 34.9 of the Consolidated Text of the Law of the Statute of
Workers, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 10/23 (ET).

Strictly speaking, this is not the first type of claim that has been
had input in this AEPD, some having already been resolved. However, if it is
of the first related to data processing as an employing entity that decides
use the registration and storage of data originated by the RF for the purpose of registration
working day diary.

The scope of application of the RGPD extends its protection, as established in its article 1.2,
to the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and, in particular, their right
to the protection of personal data, defined in its article 4.1 as "all information
about an identified or identifiable natural person ("the interested party"); person will be considered
identifiable physical person any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly,
in particular by means of an identifier, such as a name, a number of
identification, location data, an online identifier, or one or more elements
inherent to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of
said person.”
The right and ownership of the personal data that each person recognized in the article
18.4 of the Spanish Constitution, was interpreted in the ruling of the Constitutional Court
292/2000 specifying that:

“This fundamental right to data protection…attributes to its holder a bundle of
powers consisting for the most part in the legal power to impose on third parties the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/40

performance or omission of certain behaviors whose specific regulation must
establish the Law, the one that according to art. 18.4 CE must limit the use of information technology,
either developing the fundamental right to data protection (art. 81.1 CE), or
regulating its exercise (art. 53.1 CE). “

“The fundamental right to data protection seeks to guarantee that person a
power of control over your personal data, over its use and destination, for the purpose of
prevent their illicit and harmful traffic to the dignity and rights of the affected party. … The right to
data protection guarantees individuals a power of disposition over these data. Is
guarantee imposes on the public authorities the prohibition that they become sources of that
information without due guarantees; and also the duty to prevent risks that may
arising from improper access or disclosure of such information. But that power
provision on the personal data itself nothing is worth if the affected party does not know what data
are those owned by third parties, who owns them, and for what purpose. “
As specific types, biometric data is defined in article 4.14 of the RGPD:

"biometric data": personal data obtained from a specific technical treatment,
relating to the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a natural person who
allow or confirm the unique identification of that person, such as facial images or
fingerprint data;

To be considered biometric data in the sense of the RGPD, the processing of data without pro-
cease, such as the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a natural person de-
may involve a measurement of those characteristics. Since biometric data is the
result of such measurements, the RGPD indicates in its article 4, section 14, that they are data
personal “[…] obtained from a specific technical treatment, related to the characteristics
physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a natural person that allow or confirm
the unique identification of said person [...] »Thus, from the concept, we must not lose sight of the
ta:

-The nature of the data: data relating to the physical, physiological or

conduct of a natural person;

- The means and forms of treatment: data "obtained from a treatment
specific technician'; what differentiates, for example, from the images of a person who figures
ran in a video surveillance system, which cannot be considered biometric data if it is not
have been technically treated in a specific way in order to contribute to the identification
unique to that person. Recital 51 of the RGPD also refers to the non-consideration
systematically as a special category treatment of data, to photographs, to me-
us that a specific technical treatment means be applied to them that “allows the identification
unequivocal authorization or authentication of a natural person”.

- The purpose of the treatment: the data must be used for the purpose of identifying

uniquely to a natural person.

Biometric data have the peculiarity of being produced by the body itself and
definitively characterize, they are data not about that person, but the data refers to the
same person, in principle not modifiable by the will of the individual, nor can the person
be released from them, they cannot be changed in case of compromise-loss or intrusion into the
system. In addition, because biometric data is unique to a person and
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/40

perpetual, the user uses the same data in different systems. Therefore, a robbery
identity is not only perpetual in time, but also affects all systems in which a
user has their biometric data stored. The holder therefore does not have the possibility
to use a biometric data for the bank, and a different one for your health system, but
that uses the same information to verify your identity in both, and against a
vulnerability are affected all of them at the same time. Finally, the interested party does not know
finds out that your information is being used, being able to obtain it through objects,
traces or surveillance cameras.

Also from the start, it is necessary to highlight the note of the restrictive nature, since in principle, its
treatment is prohibited and can only be treated exceptionally, in certain
assumptions that are contemplated in the RGPD, which provides strict requirements for
finally enable the commissioning of such systems, due to the affectation to
fundamental rights and freedoms, due to the risks that may entail the context of their
treatment, and that as stated in Recital 51 of the RGPD: "Such personal data does not
must be treated, unless treatment is permitted in specific situations
referred to in this Regulation, taking into account that the Member States
may establish specific provisions on data protection in order to adapt
the application of the rules of this Regulation to the fulfillment of a legal obligation
or to the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. In addition to the specific requirements of
such treatment, the general principles and other rules of this
Regulation, especially in what refers to the conditions of legality of the treatment. I know
should explicitly establish exceptions to the general prohibition of data processing.
those special categories of personal data, among other things when the interested party gives
your explicit consent or in the case of specific needs, in particular when the
treatment is carried out within the framework of legitimate activities by certain
associations or foundations whose objective is to allow the exercise of freedoms
fundamental.”

Considering (52) “Also, exceptions must be authorized to the prohibition of treating
special categories of personal data when established by the Law of the Union or of
Member States and provided that the appropriate guarantees are given, in order to protect data
personal and other fundamental rights, when it is in the public interest, in particular:

- the processing of personal data in the field of labor law,
- legislation on social protection, including pensions and
-for security, supervision and health alert purposes, the prevention or control of

communicable diseases and other serious threats to health. (...)”

III

The defendant has processed personal data, and specifically biometric data. The
concept of treatment The RGPD defines in its article 4:

“2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/40

any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction;

7) “controller” or “controller”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means of the
treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the purposes and
means of treatment, the person responsible for treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;

The definition of biometric data refers to "technical treatment", without specifying, except for
Note that the purpose of such processing must be to identify a person. The
biometric characteristics are subjected to a technical treatment through a process that is
contains in all biometric data processing: data capture or registration,
storage or processing and last phase of comparison.

The photographs of the employees are captured obtaining an image, from which they are extracted
the characteristics through the algorithm, which is part of the software of the device of the
claimed. These characteristics-facial vectors, the claimed one calls them- are the measurements
positioning and relative reference measurements (nodal points distance: between the
eyes, shape of cheekbones...) that collects from each image in each individual and the point of
natural starting point for the treatment and automatic recognition of individuals. The
Feature extraction provides information to distinguish between faces.
of different people according to their geometric or photometric variations.

The raw image of the biometric characteristics is reduced,
  transforming,
conserving outstanding discriminated information that is essential for the recognition
of the person. These extracted characteristics are kept in a biometric template, which
it is a form of reduced mathematical representation of the original characteristic. Template
reference is stored for comparison. In the last phase, a sample will be compared
biometric -such as the face- presented to the sensor with a previously recorded template. The
phases agree with the enumeration of what could be a treatment operation of
data (collection, storage, use). The operation of the fingerprint is similar, with
unremarkable nuances because they do not fundamentally vary the mode of operation.
The non-reference to its assessment in this procedure cannot be assessed as intended.
the one claimed in his allegations.

As for the fact that it only identifies those belonging to the group of employees, that is no reason to
not be considered biometric data, which are aimed at natural persons being
identify with the data generated from the extraction of its characteristics
biometrics

Regarding the consideration of biometric data as special data, it is necessary to take into account
Note that in the proposals on the Data Protection reform package, which
led to the approval of the RGPD, the European Commission, only added to the list of data
sensitive, genetic data. It was the European Parliament that added to the list of data
sensitive, biometrics, when he voted for the GDPR proposal on 03/14/2014, despite the fact that
some national authorities suggested, due to their specific nature, to add them to the list of
sensitive data.

On the one hand, the definition of biometric data includes that through the technical treatment
specifically, “enable or confirm” the “unique identification” of said person. mentions to
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/40

“allow” can be understood as identification, “confirm” as verification. So,
both, identification or authentication must be unique, referring to the identification that is
produce of the person. Unique identification, on the other hand, goes beyond the fact that the data is
of an identified or identifiable natural person. Data of the identified natural person is that
that person is distinguished or isolated from a group of people. Unique, may refer to the
biometric data have such particularities that they can unambiguously identify a
individual

The differences between the terms identification-authentication refer to the way of
search in the stored records and to the previous entry of the record, as can be deduced
of Opinion 3/2012, of WG 29, of 04/27/2012, on the evolution of technologies
biometric data, at a time when biometric data did not enjoy the category of
“special” that the RGPD introduces and therefore the term “aimed at the
unique identification. The opinion differentiated between:

“Biometric identification: the identification of an individual by a biometric system is
typically the process of matching your biometric data (acquired at the time of
identification) with a series of biometric templates stored in a database (it is
i.e. a one-to-many mapping process).

Biometric verification/authentication: the verification of an individual by a biometric system
is normally the process of comparing your biometric data (acquired in the
time of verification) with a single biometric template stored on a device
(i.e., a one-to-one mapping process).”

Recital 51 states that “The treatment of photographs should not be considered
systematic processing of special categories of personal data, since
are only included in the definition of biometric data when the
The fact of being treated with specific technical means allows the identification or
unequivocal authentication of a natural person. Such personal data must not be processed,
unless their treatment is allowed in specific situations contemplated in the
this Regulation”.

Article 9.1 together with the prohibition of treatment indicates that they are, those "aimed at identifying
uniquely to a natural person”, which indicates that the biometric data, for
nature, they are not sensitive, but will depend on the use or context in which they are used, the
techniques used for their treatment, and the consequent interference in the right to
Data Protection.

Technically, the biometric template against which the sample is checked is the product of
a measurement that uniquely and uniquely identifies the individual. This is what for example
differentiates the images viewed from a camcorder that cannot be considered
biometric data under the definition of article 9 if they are not specifically treated with a
technical means to contribute to the identification of a person.

The biometric data of each employee, acquired at the time of capture, is
relate to the name and surname of the employee who registers them, to submit them to the
technical procedure that converts the image, the format, into a biometric sample and the
algorithm in biometric template, being stored, so that with the samples introduced to the
sign in, they are compared with the series of biometric templates stored in the database,
that is, the comparison does not occur with a single biometric template stored in the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/40

device. Facial recognition is not only capable of accurately validating identity,
instead, it has unique information about natural persons. The algorithm of the software, on the
biometric sample, extract biometric characteristics, reduce and transform into label or
numbers that sample, constituting a mathematical representation of the characteristic
original biometric, which is the biometric template. The template is stored for your
comparison in the last phase in which with the biometric sample-face-and with the template
previously recorded, is uniquely identifying the employee, each time he
enters or leaves by lending your face to the device, so the data is considered to enter
within the scope of special data.

In the present case, of course, it cannot be said that information linked to
personal data of a person identified in each time record, although the data is
stored on the device encrypted/encrypted. Every time an employee stands in front of the
camera, allows or confirms its unique identification through the treatment carried out by the
claimant with the purchased device. The presented sample is compared and the system has
the identification function with a biometric function, uniquely identifying the employee
who claims to be and registering their data. On the allegation that the system only takes
“position or dimensions of the face that do not allow to reconstruct the face of the person, the
which could coincide in many other people so they do not allow the identification
unequivocal of the subject, rather than within a small group of people such as the staff
of the entity” “no unequivocal identification data of any worker is kept”, it must be
point out that if they did not allow the unequivocal identification of the employee, the
registration that has been carried out, of which the respondent has not accounted for any
irregularity in the records carried out with your system, or you would not have passed the
acceptance threshold of the device and would not access with the consequent lack of annotation,
as happens if the registered pattern does not match. Otherwise, it has been detailed
consistent operation in the technical transformation of the biometric trait that allows the
unique identification even within the small group of employees.

Regarding the incorporation of the user manual, of which a complete copy was sent, no
can accept the allegation of lack of certainty, since it is a reflection of the specifications
that are detailed in the brochures that the claimant sends, without the claimed having provided the
that if it considers true or truthful. The specificities indicated in the manual coincide with the
details that it gives of the autonomous system that it uses as software and that appear in the brochures
sent in evidence by the claimed. Available technology plays a determining role
in the identification of the person (recital 26 of the RGPD) and therefore it must be mentioned
and bring this manual to the case, even if it is to appreciate its general characteristics. On
the lack of expertise that verifies that the system works as claimed, it is not
You can argue that initially a photograph of the employee is taken, identifying with their
employee data correlating your template, being true that it is about the image
processed on which is produced through its capture a biometric sample and a
staff, there being no differences in terms of its consideration, which is per se a
data treatment.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/40

Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights prescribes that everyone has
right to respect for their private life, and article 8.1 that every person has the right to
protection of personal data that concerns you. Performed together,
infers that any data processing may constitute a violation of such rights.
by a third party, in this case the claimed party. This use of the data of your
employees, whose ownership corresponds to them, could suppose a violation of their right to
privacy and data protection if it is not justified. Article 8.2 of the Charter
of Fundamental Rights specifies that personal data can only be
processed with the consent of the interested party or by virtue of another legitimate basis provided
by Law. In addition, articles 7 and 8 of the charter are not absolute, admitting limitations,
provided that they are provided for by law, respect the essential content of those rights and
with observance of the principle of proportionality, are necessary and respond
effectively to objectives of general interest recognized by the Union or to the need to
protection of the rights and freedoms of others (Decision of the Court of Justice of the
European Union, fourth room, judgment of October 15, 2013, C/291/2012.). These
other aspects, are reiterated in relation to fundamental rights, in art.
52.1 in fine of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU.

The defendant is charged with the infringement of article 9.2.b) of the RGPD.
Article 9.1 of the RGPD indicates:

“Treatment of special categories of personal data”

1. The processing of personal data that reveals ethnic origin or
racial, political, religious or philosophical convictions, or trade union membership, and
the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying
to a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to sexual life or
sexual orientation of a natural person.

2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the circumstances

following:
[…]”

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the exercise of
specific rights of the person in charge of the treatment or of the interested party in the field of
Labor law and security and social protection, to the extent authorized by the
Law of the Union or of the Member States or a collective agreement pursuant to
Law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees of respect for the
fundamental rights and the interests of the interested party;

c) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
natural person, in the event that the interested party is not capable, physically or legally,
to give your consent;
[…]”

g) the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest, based on the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional to the objective
pursued, essentially respect the right to data protection and establish measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/40

interested;

But when it comes to biometric data, in addition to lifting the ban on their processing,
must contain one of the legal bases legitimizing the treatment contained in the
article 6.1 of the RGPD. The fundamental right to data protection, provided for in the
Article 18.4 of the EC, is based, as regards the case, on the essential principle that the
data processing of its owner, "it will only be lawful if at least one" of the
conditions provided for in article 6.1.a) to f) of the RGPD, on the basis that any
treatment of these data restricts the rights of its owner by the mere fact of suffering such
treatment, moment from which each time it will be identified with this mechanism.

The respondent alludes in her treatment record to three bases of legitimation, which proceeds
examine separately:

  - “the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is
part or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;” article 6.1. b) GDPR,
adding that it also concurs that of article 6.1.c) of the RGPD "The treatment is necessary
for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the data controller”.

The legal obligation to record working hours does not derive from obligations assumed between
the parties but of legal regulations contained in article 34.9 of the ET, which provides:
“The company will guarantee the daily record of the working day, which must include the specific hours of
start and end of the working day of each worker, without prejudice to the
time flexibility established in this article.

By collective bargaining or company agreement or, failing that, by decision of the
employer after consultation with the legal representatives of the workers in the company,
this day record will be organized and documented.

The company will keep the records referred to in this provision for four years and
will remain at the disposal of the workers, their legal representatives and
the Labor and Social Security Inspection.”

For control through the daily record of the working day of each employee, it is necessary
treat your data. Different is the analysis of necessity and proportionality in the middle
chosen, for which it could be considered that there are alternative systems.

  The Article 29 Working Group, GT29 (adopted on 06/08/2017) (created by virtue of the
Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC, European independent advisory body on the subject of
data protection and right to privacy, whose tasks are described in article 30
of Directive 95/46/CE and in article 15 of Directive 2002/58/CE, assumed today by
the European Committee for Data Protection, CEPD), in its Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution
of biometric technologies, indicates that “When analyzing the proportionality of a system
proposed biometric, it is necessary to consider beforehand if the system is necessary to
respond to the identified need, that is, if it is essential to satisfy that need,
and not just the most suitable or profitable. A second factor that must be taken into account is the
probability that the system will be effective in responding to the need in question in the light of
of the specific characteristics of the biometric technology to be used. a third
aspect to ponder is whether the resulting loss of privacy is proportional to the benefits

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/40

expected. If the benefit is relatively minor, such as increased comfort or a slight
savings, then the loss of privacy is not appropriate. The fourth aspect to evaluate the
suitability of a biometric system is to consider whether a less invasive means of
intimacy would achieve the desired end.
It must be considered that in this case, prior to the establishment of the RF, the entity had
with cards to control working hours, although it does not seem to have analyzed other alternatives of
use for that purpose.

- Another basis of legitimacy provided by the claimant is the "need to control the
workers”, 6.1 f) of the RGPD, when the RGPD defines that article, as: “the treatment is
necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the person responsible for the
treatment or by a third party, provided that the interests do not prevail over said interests.
or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require the protection of
personal data, in particular when the interested party is a child.”, extreme that of all
modes does not develop or develop the balance of the prevalence of rights and interests,
It should be added that this legal basis does not apply as the drafting of the aforementioned continues.
precept “… to the treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions.”, considering that as a public entity it performs said functions by delegation.

 
- Finally, the "compliance through the personnel of the functions of public interest
entrusted", article 6.1.e) of the RGPD, which actually indicates: "e) the treatment is
necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public powers conferred on the data controller”, would not be applicable either,
since article 8.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes that the processing of personal data only
may be considered based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or
in the exercise of public powers conferred on the controller, when derived from a
competence attributed by a regulation with the force of law.

Thus, the only base that could be applicable would be 6.1.c).

However, resorting to the lifting of the ban that provides for the treatment of
biometric data, article 9.2.b) of the RGPD, which is the one related to the scope
employment, determines that:

- the treatment must be necessary for such compliance,

-to the extent authorized by the Member States,

- or a Collective Agreement also in accordance with the law of the Member States, which
establish adequate guarantees of respect for fundamental rights and interests
Of the interested.

These are cumulative requirements that represent an additional guarantee in the treatment of damages.
rights of its owner, which takes into account that if the achievement of the intended purposes can be
be processed without the processing of personal data, this route will be preferable and will mean that it is not necessary
necessary to carry out any treatment of data, and subsidiarily, that the collection of data
is necessary for the stated or intended purpose and, if so, that it is proportionate.
nal.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/40

In any case, in these treatments, one must be very cautious in the assessment that is made.
made as to whether these requirements are met, since special data is being processed.
Subsidiarily, the defendant points out, other literals of article 9.2 of the RGPD, none of
they reach to lift the presumption of the prohibition of the processing of biometric data,
by:

- Article 9.2.g): “processing is necessary for reasons of public interest
essential”, since a public interest does not legitimize any type of data processing
personal, but must be, in the first place, to the conditions that have been able
establish the legislator, as provided for in article 6 of the RGPD, in its sections 2 and 3,
as well as the aforementioned principles of article 5 of the RGPD, especially those of limitation
of the purpose and minimization of data. In this case, there is no rule that provides for the
statement of essential public interest in the processing of facial image data
for the labor registry, nor the guarantees that should be carried with that declaration.

-that the "treatment is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine", that it does not
bears no relation to the installation of the device for records, within a
context of a pandemic in which the right to data protection is not suspended,
providing the personal data protection regulations and the applicable sector of a
regulation for such cases that reconciles and weighs the interests and rights at stake
for the common good.

Thus, it is concluded that the cause of legitimacy to carry out the time control of the day
daily work, only reaches the obligation to carry it out, but not to carry it out using data
biometrics, and their use, without cause of exception for the treatment, as has been accredited,
It supposes the infringement of article 9.2.b) of the RGPD.

v

The breach of article 9.2.b) of the RGPD of the claimed party, is described in the ar-
Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, with the reference:
“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for consent
pursuant to articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”
The LOPDGDD establishes in its article 72.1.e) of the LOPDGDD:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
They will be very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substantial modification of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

“e) The processing of personal data of the categories referred to in article 9
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, without any of the circumstances provided for in
said precept and in article 9 of this organic law.”

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/40

Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work, of WG 29, establishes that
“Regardless of the legal basis for such processing, prior to its commencement,
perform a proportionality test in order to determine whether the treatment is
necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose, as well as the measures to be taken to
guarantee that violations of the rights to privacy and secrecy of
communications are kept to a minimum

Since in the 90s of the last century our Constitutional Court adopted the
called the "German test" in the examination of the principle of proportionality, is a constant
in its jurisprudence, that the measures that affect fundamental rights must be
suitable or adequate, necessary and proportionate in the strict sense.

Section 72 of Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data through
video devices, of January 29, 2020, of the CEPD, indicates: "The use of data
biometrics and, in particular, facial recognition entail high risks for
rights of the interested parties. It is essential that the use of such technologies have
place duly respecting the principles of legality, necessity, proportionality and
minimization of data as established by the RGPD. Although the use of these
technologies may be perceived as particularly effective, data controllers
must first assess the impact on fundamental rights and freedoms and
consider less intrusive means of achieving your legitimate purpose of processing. " Namely,
the question of whether this biometric application is something that really is
essential and necessary, or is it just “convenient”.
Opinion 3/2012, on the evolution of biometric technologies of 04/27/2012, of the WG
29, indicates that: “When analyzing the proportionality of a proposed biometric system, it is
It is necessary to consider beforehand if the system is necessary to respond to the need
identified, that is, if it is essential to satisfy that need, and not just the most
adequate or profitable. A second factor that must be taken into account is the probability of
that the system is effective in responding to the need in question in light of the
specific characteristics of the biometric technology to be used. a third aspect
to ponder is whether the resulting loss of privacy is proportional to the benefits
expected. If the benefit is relatively minor, such as increased comfort or a slight
savings, then the loss of privacy is not appropriate. The fourth aspect to evaluate the
suitability of a biometric system is to consider whether a less invasive means of
intimacy would achieve the desired end.

These assessments require exhaustiveness, starting in this case, not only from the
prohibition of treatment of these data, but considering the risks of using a
intrusive technology, bias, or the likelihood of misidentification, your
interoperability, identity theft and the type of identity unique, permanent and
invariably dealt with, its impact on the privacy of individuals, the implications on
fundamental rights issue of such systems and security measures, Their use
increasingly widespread, and technological interconnection is more likely to interfere with
these fundamental rights and can lead to a serious violation of rights.
can lead to serious violation of rights.

Data controllers must ensure that the assessment of the need and the
proportionality consider a thorough assessment of alternative options less
intrusive available. Therefore, the feasibility of other options needs to be documented
available alternatives that do not require the use of special data, compare all the
options and document the conclusions. All this, considering the context of the framework in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/40

which the treatment is traced, the fulfillment of the obligations through the registration of
working day.

Necessity implies that a combined, fact-based assessment of
the effectiveness of the measure for the objective pursued and whether it is less intrusive in
comparison with other options to achieve the same goal

Need should not be confused with system utility. It may be easier not to have
than carrying a card, it is automatic and instantaneous and not excessively expensive.
Obviously, an RF system can be useful, but it doesn't have to be objectively
necessary (the latter being what really must be present). As it establishes
opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies - of WG 29 -, must
be examined “if it is essential to satisfy that need, and not just the most suitable or
profitable". Regarding the reliability of the system, it must be said that the greater the
number of identification systems that are based on biometric data or a template
obtained from biometric data, the greater the risk that this data may end up
being used improperly and giving rise to a risk of usurpation or
identity fraud.
Regarding the production of these impersonation events, the respondent contributed a
example of a single case that occurred two months before implanting the first means of
Fingerprint time control. It is a letter from an employee who does not prove
reliably that the aforementioned impersonation had occurred in the use of credit cards
according to their statements and the lack of a procedure based on accrediting the
facts, which is not provided. The allegation that the use of the
facial recognition because it previously used the card system, it is not mentioned in
the proposal. In any case, it can be concluded that such fraudulent uses are not accredited.
by the mention of a case, which, as is proven, are statements by the
employee. In addition, an internal sanctioning system could be established that discourages and is
cash for the fraudulent use if it were the case of the cards, it is not justified that the
treatment through the RF is necessary for the fulfillment of the obligations in
labor matters such as the record of daily working hours established by law.
Mention anyway that you have returned after the start agreement to that system and have
to analyze the options and alternatives before establishing a new system that supposes a
exaggerated limitation of the right of each employee, when there may be less
invasive of intimacy, and not opting for what is practical and comfortable when they are at stake
rights of their owners. The risks of treatment must also be considered, which
denote a lack of full consolidation of confidence in the system, given the pros and cons
cons, being aware that biometric systems can be circumvented and be
compromised your data and information, in relatively easy ways. In this case, the
type of activity, common to many companies, such as the registration of working hours, cannot give
foot to the treatment of special data in group blocks, which do not generate more
advantages or benefits for the general interest than damages on the goods or values in
conflict. It is reiterated that given the purpose to be achieved and the legal assets in
takes place, the context in which it occurs, the type of activity carried out by the claimant, which
does not entail a significant risk to protect or a supreme or prevalent legal right, it supposes
that the specialized treatment that it proposes cannot give way for the registration of working hours,
influencing the judgment of proportionality, as outlined in Opinion 3/12 on the
evolution of biometric technologies.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/40

7th

In addition, the proactive responsibility system implemented by the RGPD, focused on the
continuous management of the potential risks associated with the treatment, imposes on the
responsible for the treatment that analyze what data they process, for what purposes and what type
of treatments carried out, relating the potential risks to which they are exposed and
from there, decide what measures to take and apply to ensure compliance based on
tion of the risks detected and assumed.
RF processing poses high risks to fundamental rights and freedoms and
before implementing a data processing project, as long as it is likely
that it poses a significant risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals,
as in this case, it is necessary to audit its operation, not in an isolated way but in the
context of the specific treatment in which it will be used. The impact evaluation in the
protection of personal data, EIPD, is the tool that in the RGPD deals with the
guarantee of compliance with this aspect of the treatment.

In this case, the various risks that may occur must be analyzed, including their
technology, within the framework of an increasingly intensive use of this type of data. Its use,
interoperability and technological interconnection, is more than likely to interfere with these
fundamental rights and may give rise to questions about its implementation.

The RGPD establishes the obligation to manage the risk that for the rights and freedoms
of people involves treatment. This risk arises both from the very existence of the
treatment, as well as its technical and organizational dimensions. The risk arises
for the purposes of the treatment and its nature, and also for its scope and the context in which
that unfolds

The use of biometric data and, in particular, the RF entails greater risks for the
rights of the interested parties. It is essential that the use of these technologies be made
duly respecting the principles of legality, necessity, proportionality and
minimization of the data established in the RGPD. Although the use of these technologies
may be perceived as particularly effective, those responsible must, first of all,
assess the impact on fundamental rights and freedoms and consider less
intrusive to achieve its legitimate purpose of processing.
The “risk-based approach” is developed in the “Statement on the role of a risk-
based approach in data protection legal frameworks WP218” of WG 29, WP218, and is not a
novel concept in the framework of data protection.

Risk management for rights and freedoms, aims to study the impact
and the probability of causing harm to people, individually or socially, as
consequence of personal data processing. In contrast, risk management
of regulatory compliance aims to provide the person in charge with a tool to
verify the degree of compliance with the obligations and precepts legally required with
in relation to a treatment activity. Therefore, prior to the management process of
risks and as a sine qua non condition to undertake a treatment activity, it is
It is necessary to systematize the verification of regulatory compliance throughout the entire cycle of
treatment life. The complexity of the risk management process has to be adjusted, not to the
size of the entity, the availability of resources, its specialty or sector,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/40

but to the possible impact of the treatment activity on the interested parties and to the own
treatment difficulty.

Article 35 of the RGPD whose infringement is attributed to the claimed one, establishes the obligation to
have an Impact Assessment on the Protection of Personal Data (EIPD),
pointing out:
"1. When a type of treatment, particularly if it uses new technologies, is likely to
gies, due to their nature, scope, context or purposes, entails a high risk for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible for the treatment will carry out, before the treatment
treatment, an assessment of the impact of processing operations on the protection of
personal information. A single assessment may address a number of treatment operations.
similar transactions involving similar high risks.

2. The person in charge of the treatment will obtain the advice of the delegate of protection of
data, if appointed, when conducting the data protection impact assessment.
data.

3. The impact assessment related to data protection referred to in section
1 will be required in particular in case of:

a) systematic and exhaustive evaluation of personal aspects of natural persons that are
based on automated processing, such as profiling, and on the basis of which
take decisions that produce legal effects for natural persons or that affect them
have significantly similarly;

b) large-scale processing of the special categories of data referred to in article
9, paragraph 1, or personal data related to criminal convictions and offenses to
referred to in article 10, or

c) large-scale systematic observation of a publicly accessible area.

4. The control authority will establish and publish a list of the types of operations of
treatment that require an impact assessment related to data protection of
in accordance with paragraph 1. The supervisory authority shall communicate these lists to the Committee at
referred to in article 68.

5. The control authority may also establish and publish the list of types of treatment
that do not require data protection impact assessments. the au-
The Control Authority shall communicate these lists to the Committee.

6. Before adopting the lists referred to in sections 4 and 5, the supervisory authority
authority shall apply the consistency mechanism provided for in Article 63 if those lists
These include treatment activities that are related to the offer of goods or services.
services to interested parties or with the observation of their behavior in several States
limbs, or treatment activities that may substantially affect the free movement of
transfer of personal data in the Union.

7. The evaluation must include at least:

a) a systematic description of the processing operations envisaged and of the purposes of the processing.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/40

treatment, including, where appropriate, the legitimate interest pursued by the person responsible for the
treatment;

b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations
with respect to its purpose;

c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of the interested parties to which
refers to section 1, and

d) the measures planned to deal with the risks, including guarantees, security measures
and mechanisms that guarantee the protection of personal data, and to demonstrate conformity
with this Regulation, taking into account the rights and legitimate interests of
stakeholders and other affected persons.

8. Compliance with the approved codes of conduct referred to in article 40 by
those responsible or in charge will be duly taken into account when assessing
Evaluate the repercussions of the treatment operations carried out by said controllers
or entrusted, in particular for the purposes of the impact assessment relating to the protection of
data.

9. When appropriate, the person in charge will obtain the opinion of the interested parties or their representatives.
in relation to the planned treatment, without prejudice to the protection of interests
public or commercial or the security of processing operations.

10. When the treatment in accordance with article 6, paragraph 1, letters c) or e), has
its legal basis in Union law or in the law of the Member State that applies
that the person responsible for the treatment, such Law regulates the specific treatment operation.
or set of operations in question, and an impact assessment has already been carried out
on data protection as part of an overall impact assessment on the
context of the adoption of that legal basis, paragraphs 1 to 7 shall not apply
except if the Member States consider it necessary to carry out such an evaluation prior to
treatment activities.

11. If necessary, the person in charge will examine whether the treatment is in accordance with the evaluation
impact assessment relating to data protection, at least when there is a change in the
risk represented by treatment operations.”

In development of paragraph 4, the Director of the AEPD approved a non-exhaustive list,
indicative of the types of treatment that require an impact assessment relative to the
data protection, indicating: “At the time of analyzing data processing, it will be
DPIA is necessary in most cases where such treatment meets
with two or more criteria from the list below, unless the treatment is
find in the list of treatments that do not require EIPD referred to in the article
35.5 of the GDPR. The list is based on the criteria established by the “GUIDELINES
ABOUT THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT RELATED TO DATA PROTECTION
(EIPD) AND TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE TREATMENT "LIKELY INVOLVES A
HIGH RISK» FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE RGPD”, last revised and adopted on
4/10/2017, WP 248 rev.01 of WG 29 that complements them and should be understood as a
non-exhaustive list:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/40

"4. Treatments that involve the use of special categories of data referred to
article 9.1 of the RGPD… or deduce information about people related to categories.
special data gories.

5. Processing that involves the use of biometric data for the purpose of identifying
unique way to a natural person
 
 .”

9. Data processing of vulnerable subjects…”

In the same Guidelines, it is stated:

“In order to offer a more specific set of treatment operations that require
DPIA due to its inherently high risk, taking into account the particular elements
Article 35, paragraph 1, and Article 35, paragraph 3, letters a) to c), the list that must
be adopted at national level pursuant to Article 35(4) and recitals 71, 75 and
91, and other GDPR references to processing operations that are “likely to enter
high risk”, the following nine criteria should be considered:

“7. Data relating to vulnerable data subjects (recital 75): Processing of this type
of data represents a criterion due to the increase in the imbalance of power between the interests
parties and the data controller, which implies that people may be incapable of
You cease to authorize or deny the processing of your data, or to exercise your rights. Between the
Vulnerable stakeholders may include children (considered not capable of denying
gar or authorize knowingly and responsibly the processing of their data), employees”

The EIPD is a necessary step for data processing, not being as described,
the only one required is a budget to which the rest of the legal requirements must be added
for the treatment, legitimizing basis and respect for the fundamental principles of the treatment
Data processing provided for in article 5 of the RGPD.

Before implementing an RF system, the person in charge must assess whether there is another system
less intrusive with which the same purpose is obtained.
Biometric processing presents, among others, the following risks, some of which
contemplated in Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies in the
GT 29 of 04/27/2012:

-The definition of the size (amount of information) of the biometric template is a matter
crucial. On the one hand, the size of the template must be large enough to handle the
security (avoiding overlaps between the different biometric data, or substitutions of
identity), and on the other, it should not be too large in order to avoid the risks of
reconstruction of biometric data

-Risks involved in the use of biometric data for identification purposes in
large centralized databases, given the potentially
harmful to affected persons.

-It goes without saying that any loss of the qualities of integrity, confidentiality and
availability with respect to databases would clearly be detrimental to any
future application based on the information contained in such databases, and would cause

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/40

also an irreparable damage to the interested parties. For example, if the recorded data of a
authorized person are associated with the identity of an unauthorized person, the latter
could access the services available to the owner of the data, without having the right to
it. The result would be identity theft, which (regardless of detection)
would make the system unreliable for future applications and, consequently, would limit its
freedom.

- The transfer of the information contained in the database.

-You can create the illusion that the identification through the face is always correct,
therefore, an analysis of the errors that may occur in its use must be included,
performance evaluation metrics, false acceptance rate- probability that a
biometric system incorrectly identifies an individual or fails to reject an individual
that does not belong to the group, and false rejection or false negative rate: the
correspondence between a person and his own template. Facing decisions that affect
legally to a person, any decision that is adopted based on it, as it could be
in registration and time control systems, the deduction of remuneration for registration with the
system, which should only be carried out while safeguarding the rights and freedoms and
legitimate interests of the interested party, at least the right to obtain human intervention
by the person in charge, to express their point of view and to challenge the decision.
-Linking: A large number of online services allow users to upload a
image to link it to the user's profile. The RF can be used to link the
profiles from different online services (via the profile picture), but also between
the world online and offline. It is not out of the realm of possibility to take a photograph of a
person on the street and determine their identity in real time by looking at these images of
public profile. Third party services may also track profile pictures and other
publicly available photographs to create large collections of images in order to
associate a real-world identity with such images. This impact increases with
increasing deployment of these technologies. Each individual may appear in one or several
biometric systems.

-Security measures must be adopted for the processing of biometric data
(storage, transmission, feature extraction and comparison, etc.) and about
especially if the person in charge of the treatment transmits that data through the Internet. The
security measures could include, for example, encrypting templates and
protection of encryption keys apart from access control and a protection that
make it virtually impossible to reconstruct the original data from the
templates. Additionally, use of realistic masks or use of photos to try
cheat the system, always in connection with the advances and the state of the art,
taking into account that the most effective biometric systems when it comes to recognizing a
person are also the most potentially vulnerable

Regarding the guarantees to be implemented that must be contained in the EIPD, the Guide “The
data protection in labor relations” of the AEPD contemplates, by way of reference
ten aspects that can be taken into account.

Likewise, the working document on biometrics, adopted on 08/01/2003 by WG29, considers
that biometric systems relating to physical characteristics that leave no trace (for
example the shape of the hand, but not fingerprints) or biometric systems

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/40

relating to physical characteristics that leave traces but do not depend on the memorization of
data held by a person other than the data subject (in other words, the data is not
stored in the access control device or in a central database) create
fewer risks to the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of
people (We can distinguish the biometric data that is processed centrally
biometric reference data that is stored on a mobile device and the
compliance process is performed on the card and not on the sensor or when the sensor is part of
of the mobile device).

-It is generally accepted that the risk of reuse of biometric data obtained through
from physical traces left by people inadvertently (for example: fingerprints
digital) for incompatible purposes is relatively low if the data is not stored
in centralized databases, but in the possession of the person and are inaccessible to
third parties. Centralized storage of biometric data also increases the
risk of using biometric data as a key to interconnect different databases,
which could allow obtaining detailed profiles of a person's habits both at the
public as private. Furthermore, the question of the compatibility of ends leads us to the
interoperability of different systems that use biometrics. The normalization that
requires interoperability can lead to greater interconnection between databases
data.

The claim does not contemplate diverse and varied elements and scenarios that have been
indicated in this section in its risk assessment, and has stated that it does not process data
special character. However, the data is of that type, because when they identify
unavoidably to the employee, since he has his template saved and when he presents the
sample, checks it among all the existing ones, fully identifying its holder to
through the samples that are saved on the device. As previously pointed out
processing of this type of data occurs.

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the facts
posts do not comply with the provisions of article 35 of the RGPD, with the absence of any
type of documented impact analysis linked to facial recognition processing
from which the adoption of specific measures and guarantees derive.

viii

On the non-existence of guilt because he acted with the intention of protecting the health of his
staff, trying to guarantee the provision of essential services during the period
extraordinary confinement, and that is the first resolution by use of RF in the control
working hours, it must be indicated that guilt should be understood as personal judgment
of blame addressed to the perpetrator of a typical and unlawful act. This implies that the author
is the cause of the action that involves the unlawful conduct. that is attributable without the concurrence
circumstances that alter his capacity to act and that he is guilty, that is, that he has
acted conscientiously and voluntarily either intentionally or negligently.

It should be noted that the principle of culpability prevents the admission in administrative law
sanctioning objective liability, it is also true that the absence of
Intentionality is secondary since this type of infraction is normally committed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/40

for a culpable or negligent action, which is sufficient to integrate the element
subjective of guilt. The field of simple non-observance is the classic of recklessness or
negligence, in its different degrees. From the material point of view, the guilt
consists of the ability of the obligated subject to act differently and, therefore,
Therefore, according to the legal system, within what is an interpretation
reasonable legal. Therefore, what is relevant is the diligence displayed in the action by the
subject, and what excludes the imposition of a sanction, solely based on the mere
result, that is to say to the principle of strict liability. In this sense, the Court
Supreme has understood that there is recklessness whenever a duty is neglected
legal care, when the offender does not behave with due diligence.

“However, the mode of attribution of responsibility to legal persons is not
corresponds to the forms of willful or reckless guilt that are attributable to the
human conduct. So, in the case of offenses committed by people
legal, although the element of guilt must concur, it is applied
necessarily differently from how it is done with respect to natural persons. According to
the S.TC. 246/1991: "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the authorship of the
infraction to the legal person arises from the very nature of legal fiction to which
these subjects respond. The volitional element in the strict sense is lacking in them, but not the
ability to break the rules to which they are subject. Capacity of infraction and, by
therefore, direct blame that derives from the legal right protected by the norm that is
infringes and the need for said protection to be truly effective and because of the risk that, in
consequently, must assume the legal entity that is subject to compliance with said
norm ". In this same line, the S.TS. pronounces on November 24, 2011 -appeal
# 258/2009-. “(Sentence 1456/2021 of the Supreme Court, third chamber, of the contentious
administrative, third section, of 12/13/2021, resource 6109/2020.

Regarding the concurrence of the pandemic, its interaction in the treatment of
data and its conjugation with the rights of the owners. The performance of essential services
cials does not imply the use of the facial recognition system that based on its prohibition
requires an analysis of its impact and the guarantees of the rights of its owners. On
which is a novel case, opinions and guidelines of the WG have been cited in this resolution
29 that involve interpretation of the rule, published on the web, dating back to: 2003,
2012, 2017, 2018 and 2020. Along with this, there are also reports on the matter from the AEPD
published on the web, elements that contribute to a reasonable and cautious interpretation
of the clear prohibition of data processing in the norm, in a system of evaluation of
risks and proactive, which does not record will carry out the claimed. Therefore, it follows that
if there is guilt on the part of the defendant when he could have acted differently
ink to which he did it, without the demand for exaggerated diligence.
 

IX

Article 83.4 RGPD states: "Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned-
shall, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject to administrative fines of EUR 10,000,000 at most.
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global annual total business lumen of the previous financial year, opting for the ma-
higher amount:

The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

a)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

37/40

39, 42 and 43;”

The LOPDGDD establishes in its article 73.t):

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
They are serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantive violation.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

t) The processing of personal data without having carried out the evaluation of the impact of
treatment operations in the protection of personal data in the cases in which
that it be required.”

X

Article 83.7 of the RGPD states that "Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the
supervisory authorities under Article 58(2), each Member State may
establish rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines can be imposed on
public authorities and bodies established in that Member State.

In this sense, article 77 of the LOPDGDD points out:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which

are responsible or in charge:
[…]”

d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on
Public Administrations”

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and it is proven
the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that would not have
been duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include
a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in
the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/40

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under
of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific.
Article 26.1 of the RGU, states that: "the collaborating urban entities will have
administrative nature and will depend in this order on the urban administration
acting”.

The defendant is an entity that has a legal-administrative nature for the
fulfillment of its purposes, constituted in this case with a mandatory character by the will of
its members, as reflected in the Statutes, which aims to preserve the
urbanization works and maintenance of facilities and services by its
grouped owners

Law 29/2001 of 1707, on land, of the Community of Madrid (BOCM of 07/27/2001, which
has exclusive jurisdiction in matters of Urbanism in its article 137 indicates:
“Urban conservation entities”:

"1. Urban planning conservation entities are entities governed by public law,
mandatory affiliation and legal personality and capacity to comply with
their ends.

 

2. They are governed by their statutes within the framework of this Law and its regulations and
they acquire legal personality from their registration in the administrative register
of the Ministry responsible for urban planning
 .”
The objective for which an urban conservation entity is constituted is to attribute to the
owners of a certain urbanization the conservation of this, a function that
initially it would correspond to the City Council or City Councils of the municipal terms
in which the urbanization is framed. These entities receive both contributions from the
owners who pay the corresponding fee as public funds. given this
public nature qualified as a Public Law entity, dependent on the Ministry
Environment, Housing and Agriculture, the regime established
in article 77 of the LOPDGDD regarding the imposition of a warning sanction.

Therefore, no administrative fine would be imposed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/40

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

  SANCTION with warning

 URBAN DEVELOPMENT ENTITY
FIRST:
EUROVILLAS CONSERVATION COLLABORATOR, with NIF G79414033, for the
GDPR violations:

 a

-article 9.2.b) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and in 72.1. e) of the
LOPDGDD.

-article 35 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 a) of the RGPD and in 73.t) of the
LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the URBAN ENTITY
EUROVILLAS CONSERVATION COLLABORATOR, with the sending of ANNEX
GENERAL and the DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT, HOUSING AND AGRICULTURE of the
Autonomous Communities of MADRID.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-050522

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/40

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

GENERAL ANNEX

Complainant: A.A.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

