 

István Ujhelyi 
MEP European Parliament  
Rue Wiertz 60  
B-1047 Brussels  
Belgium 
 

 

 

 
By e-mail only 

 

Dear Mr Ujhelyi, 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 14 December 2021 

Ref: OUT2021-00160 

Thank you for your letter related to the alleged use of spyware by public authorities in Hungary, in 
which you draw the European Data Protection Board’s (EDPB) attention to specific aspects related to 
the right to the protection of personal data. 

First of all, I would like to underline that the EDPB and its members pay particular attention to the 
current developments related to the interferences with the fundamental rights to privacy and data 
protection through surveillance measures, notably following the Pegasus media revelations and its 
implications in several Member States. 

The EDPB is competent in the matter of the alleged use of the Pegasus software mainly if and as far 
as it is deployed for purposes under the GDPR and the LED. 

I would like to also underline that according to the applicable Union law the European Data Protection 
Board  (EDPB)  does  not  have  the  same  competences,  tasks  and  powers  as  national  supervisory 
authorities. Indeed, at national level, the assessment of alleged infringements of the GDPR, or of the 
EU  overall  data  protection  framework,  falls  within  the  competence  of  the  responsible  and 
independent national supervisory authority and, when it comes to matters falling under Union law, 
subject to the cooperation and consistency mechanisms set out in the GDPR and the LED. Within these 
mechanisms,  one  of  the  EDPB’s  tasks  is  the  promotion  of  cooperation  and  effective  bilateral  and 
multilateral exchange of information between the supervisory authorities.1 

In light of the most recent CJEU case law, the EDPB recalls in this context that access, retention and 
further use of personal data by public authorities within the remit of surveillance measures must not 
exceed the limits of what is strictly necessary, assessed in the light of the Charter, otherwise it “cannot 
be considered to be justified, within a democratic society”. 2 

Furthermore, the EDPB already had the occasion to make clear that the protection of journalists and 
their sources is a cornerstone of the freedom of the press. 

                                                           
1 Article 70(1)(u) GDPR, Article 51(1)(h) LED. 
2 CJEU, Case C-623/17, Privacy International, §81 

 

 

In relation to the matter raised in your letter, I would like to refer to  the official statement of the 
Hungarian  data  protection  supervisory  authority  (SA),  published  on  5  August  2021  regarding  its 
measures to address the issue.3  

This statement informs that, in accordance with its competences and with the Act CXII of 2011 on the 
right to informational self-determination and on the freedom of information (Privacy Act) Art. 51/A 
section  (1),  the  Hungarian  SA  initiated  an  ex  officio  procedure  in  this  case.  Until  the  end  of  this 
investigation, and in line with the applicable  procedure,  the  Hungarian SA  is not  able to share any 
information with the public on this topic. 

Concerning  the  particular  case  at  stake,  the  Hungarian  National  Authority  for Data Protection  and 
Freedom  of  Information,  as  national  supervisory  authority,  has  competency  to  carry  out  the 
investigation procedure regarding the alleged use of spyware by Hungarian authorities. In line with 
the applicable legal framework, the Hungarian SA has indeed powers to investigate matters related to 
secret surveillance and processing of classified information.   

To  conclude,  I  wish  to  reassure  you  that  the  EDPB  will  continue  to  pay  special  attention  to  the 
developments of personal data processing related to surveillance measures in Member States and will 
remain ready to support all members of the EDPB, including the Hungarian supervisory authority, in 
such matters. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

                                                           
3 “An international investigation has revealed that a spyware so called Pegasus developed by Israeli NSO has 
been installed into the phones of certain target persons. “ 
Available: https://www.naih.hu/tajekoztatok-kozlemenyek 
 
 

 

