1/17

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00122/2020

RESOLUTION R/00284/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00122/2020, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to SAUNIER-TEC, HEAT MAINTENANCE
Y FRIO, S.L, in view of the complaint filed by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against SAUNIER-TEC,
MANTENIMIENTOS DE CALOR Y FRIO, S.L (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the
Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00122/2020

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 10/16/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against SAUNIER-TEC, MANTENIMIENTOS DE CALOR Y FRIO, S.L with NIF
B81405128 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are:
that in mid-October 2019 he received a series of emails with content from
request to change personal data, from accounts with an extension of
domain other than ***DOMAIN.1 which indicates that it is possible that they are not emails
officers sent by the Sauniertec company; that in the aforementioned emails their
personal data and full bank account number; also contain a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

attachment that did not proceed to open; who contacted the company
Sauniertec asking if his database had been hacked, to which he
they answer yes; After the affirmation, he asked that the person be contacted.
data protection officer without them having responded to your request; that
considers that this situation is especially serious since it is proof that the
hackers have in addition to your personal data, your bank details and could
proceed to generate fraudulent charges.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 11/22/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.

- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.

- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.

- Any other that you consider relevant.

The one claimed by letter of 12/12/2019 answered the questions
raised by the AEPD in its request for information on the incidence of
security produced. It also indicated that a communication had been sent to the
claimant in this same sense, accrediting its receipt and providing:

-

GDPR Risk Report October 2019 Saunier-Tec.

- Procedure for Risk Assessment and Notifications of Violations of

Saunier-Tec Security.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

-

Security incident report in a mailbox with the measures
implemented techniques.

- Contract to carry out a Cybersecurity Audit

- Saunier-Tec customer response

THIRD: On 03/31/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

II

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
Instead of the measures mentioned in this section, according to the
circumstances of each particular case;

(…)”

The RGPD establishes in article 5 of the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

The article notes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

  f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

In turn, the security of personal data is regulated in articles

32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

Article 33 of the RGPD, Notification of a breach of the security of the

personal data to the control authority, establishes that:

"1. In case of violation of the security of personal data, the
responsible for the treatment will notify the competent control authority of
accordance with article 55 without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after you become aware of it, unless it is unlikely
that said breach of security constitutes a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons. If the notification to the control authority does not have
place within 72 hours, must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for
the procrastination

2. The person in charge of the treatment will notify the person in charge without undue delay
of the treatment the violations of the security of the personal data of which
be aware.

3. The notification referred to in section 1 must, at a minimum:

a) describe the nature of the data security breach
including, where possible, the categories and approximate number of
affected stakeholders, and the categories and approximate number of data records
affected personnel;

b) communicate the name and contact details of the data protection delegate

data or another point of contact where further information can be obtained;

c) describe the possible consequences of the breach of the security of the

personal information;

d) describe the measures adopted or proposed by the person responsible for the
treatment to remedy the violation of the security of personal data,
including, if applicable, the measures adopted to mitigate the possible effects
negatives.

4. If it is not possible to provide the information simultaneously, and to the extent

where it is not, the information will be provided gradually without undue delay.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

5. The data controller will document any violation of the
security of personal data, including the facts related to it, its
effects and corrective measures taken. Such documentation will allow the
control authority verify compliance with the provisions of this article.

And article 34, Communication of a breach of data security

data to the interested party, establishes that:

"1. When the data security breach is likely
entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical data, the data controller will communicate it to the interested party without delay
improper.

2. The communication to the interested party contemplated in section 1 of this
article will describe in clear and simple language the nature of the violation of the
security of personal data and will contain at least the information and
measures referred to in article 33, section 3, letters b), c) and d).

3. The communication to the interested party referred to in section 1 will not be

required if any of the following conditions are met:

a) the data controller has adopted technical protection measures
and organizational measures and these measures have been applied to the data
affected by the violation of the security of personal data,
in particular those that make personal data unintelligible for
anyone who is not authorized to access them, such as encryption;

b) the data controller has taken further steps to ensure
that there is no longer the probability that the high risk for the
rights and freedoms of the interested party referred to in section 1;

c) involves a disproportionate effort. In this case, you will choose instead
by a public communication or similar measure by which it is reported
equally effectively to stakeholders.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

4. When the person in charge has not yet communicated to the interested party the
violation of the security of personal data, the control authority, once
Considering the probability that such a violation involves a high risk, it may require
to do so or may decide that any of the conditions mentioned in
section 3”.

The violation of articles 33 and 34 of the RGPD is typified in the

article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.

(…)

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

Article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies as "Infringements considered

serious:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

r) Failure to comply with the duty to notify the data protection authority
data of a breach of security of personal data in accordance with the
provided for in article 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

And in its article 74, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered mild:

They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a character will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

(…)

ñ) Failure to comply with the duty to notify the affected party of a violation of
the security of the data that entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of
those affected, as required by article 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
unless the provisions of article 73 s) of this organic law are applicable.

(…)

The facts revealed in this claim are specified in
the existence of a security breach in the systems of the claimed
breaching the duty to communicate both to the data protection authority
personal as to the interested parties the violation of the security of their data.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

In the present case, within the framework of file E/10606/2019, the AEPD requested

to the claimed an informative requirement.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the incidence of
security revealed by the claimant, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to
in order to guarantee the confidentiality of the data and, among them, those aimed at restoring
its availability and access to data quickly in the event of a physical incident or
technical..

From the documentation provided, it can be deduced that the entity failed to comply with that
obligation as evidenced by the emails with change request content
of personal data from accounts with a domain extension other than
@sauniertec.com, confirming the attempted hacking of customer accounts,
the entity itself acknowledging the error in the management of the claimant's request as well
such as the existence of malware in the email account of a worker
impersonating her identity and using emails that had been sent to her.

It is true that the respondent who was aware of the incident adopted measures aimed at
remedy it, however the RGPD regulates in its article 33 the notification
security breaches that may pose a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons to the competent supervisory authority, which in the case
Spanish is about the AEPD.

Therefore, whenever a gap or incident of this type is seen as
affected personal data of natural persons we must communicate it to the
AEPD and, in addition, we must notify it within a maximum period of 72 hours from
as long as we are aware of the breach.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

There is also no evidence that, in accordance with what is stated in the
article 34 had the affected interested parties been informed of the violation of the
security of your personal data, but after analyzing the facts and according to the
internal procedure of Risk Assessment and Notifications of Violations of
Security determined that it was not necessary to make such communications.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be
allegedly responsible for the infringement of articles 33 and 34 of the RGPD,
violation that is typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

IV

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what may result
of the instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD of
which the defendant is held responsible, in an initial assessment, are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

The defendant's conduct is the result of a lack of diligence in the
compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulations for the protection of
data.

The nature and severity of the breach, declared security breach.

The absence of notification to the control authority about the facts
produced.

The absence of notification to the interested parties of the possible affectation to their
rights given the category of affected data, bank details.

The number of people affected by the breach.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

The degree of responsibility of the data controller, taking into account
the technical or organizational measures applied and that were violated, as well
as the category of affected data.

The activity of the allegedly infringing entity is linked to the
data processing of both customers and third parties.

The volume of business of the claimed.

For all these reasons, an amount of the sanction is established for violation of the

articles 33 and 34 of the RGPD of 6,000 euros.

Therefore, as stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

 

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE

to SAUNIER-TEC,
HEAT AND COLD MAINTENANCE, S.L. with NIF B81405128, for the alleged
infringement of articles 33 and 34, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article
83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

2. APPOINT Instructor to B.B.B. and Secretary to C.C.C., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

3. INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the complaint
filed by the complainant and her documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Inspection Services during the preliminary investigation phase, as well as
such as the report of previous inspection actions; documents all of them
make up the file.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP), and art. 127 letter b) of the RLOPD, the sanction that for said infractions that
could correspond would be 6,000 euros (six thousand euros), without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

5. NOTIFY this Agreement to SAUNIER-TEC, MAINTENIMIENTOS DE
HEAT AND COLD, S.L. with NIF B81405128, expressly indicating their right to
hearing in the procedure and granting a hearing period of TEN DAYS
SKILLFUL to formulate the allegations and propose the evidence that it considers
coming. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

Likewise, in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of the LPACAP,
informs that, if it does not make allegations within the term of this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal.

You are also informed that, in accordance with the provisions of article
85.1 LPACAP, may acknowledge its responsibility within the term granted for the
formulation of allegations to this initial agreement which will entail a
reduction of 20% of the sanctions that should be imposed in the present
procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,200 euros. With the application of this
reduction, the total sanction would be established at 4,800 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanctions,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to 1,200
euros. With the application of this reduction, the total sanction would be established in
4,800 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the total sanction would be established at 3,600 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (4,800 euros or 3,600 euros), in accordance with the
provided for in article 85.2 referred to, we indicate that you must make it effective by
your deposit in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Sea Spain Marti
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On June 24, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3600 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00122/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND:
HEAT AND COLD MAINTENANCE, S.L.

  NOTIFY

the present

resolution to

 SAUNIER-TEC,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

