 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Fax without faxing
Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
Working paper on data protection when using fax services

Munich, February 3, 2022

The transmission of information by fax is often perceived as archaic.
men. In practice, both within and outside of public administration, it loses all
gradually in importance; the simplicity and robustness of fax transmission is
particularly appreciated when more up-to-date means of communication fail unexpectedly. That
Telefax offers a fallback level: Fast written communication remains basically
possible, even if the sender's or recipient's IT systems are not currently in use.
are settable.

Like telex machines, fax machines will eventually become a thing of the past.
belong. Until then, their existence is a yardstick for the progress of digitization
tion: If sending encrypted e-mails is as easy as sending
sending a fax, and if you are so familiar with the stability of the IT systems required for this
as in the availability of telefax services, this technology will mark the end of
have reached their life cycle.

Since this point in time is still in the future, explains the Bavarian State Commissioner for
data protection in its new working paper "Data protection when using fax
Services” what senders and recipients can do to communicate by fax in such a way
to make data protection as secure as possible. The paper describes how to send a fax
typical risk scenarios for fax reception and provides concrete remedial measures
Hand. It also explains how those responsible meet their accountability
men can.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "The new working paper does not propagate the rediscovery of the
faxes. It accepts the still existing need for this technology and forwards it
a use that is up-to-date at least from a data protection point of view. A goal of the
gitalization should always remain uncomplicated, reliable and data protection-optimized
Provide communication tools that make 'faxing' superfluous as soon as possible
make."

The new working paper is available at https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the “Data
protection reform 2018” ready for download.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

