**Informal Hearing of the President of the Authority for the Protection of Personal Data on Bill No. 897 and Related Matters (Prevention of Abuse Against Minors, the Elderly, and Disabled Persons in Public and Private Facilities)**  
Before the Commission I (Constitutional Affairs) of the Senate of the Republic (January 30, 2019)  
**Text of the Intervention**

I thank the Commission for seeking our contribution on a text on which we have already had the opportunity to express ourselves since the last legislature, but which raises always new reflections.  
In relation to the hearing we held before the Chamber last October, for example, in addition to the amendments made to the text of the bill, there is another new element that deserves attention.  
One region, Lombardy, has introduced, with its own law - for which the appeal deadline has not yet expired - incentives for the voluntary installation of video surveillance systems in nurseries.  
On one hand, this law raises some doubts about constitutional legitimacy regarding the distribution of legislative power between the State and the regions, insofar as - despite the generic reference to compliance with the relevant regulations - it risks affecting the necessary guarantees and appropriate precautions to ensure the substantial respect of data protection regulations.  
This would appear inadmissible for a matter, such as personal data protection, reserved for the exclusive legislative power of the State, as it falls within the area of civil law as per Article 117, second paragraph, letter l), of the Constitution, as established by the Constitutional Court ruling 271/2005, with relevance also, under Article 117, first paragraph, in terms of compatibility with EU law (which is directly applicable).  
On the other hand, there is a concrete risk that such a complex issue - such as the relationship between the protection of minors and the freedom of workers - could be regulated independently by each region, thus affecting the levels of guarantee of such fundamental rights in a heterogeneous manner.  
This eventuality further underscores the need for intervention by the state legislator.  
Such intervention must establish - in compliance with European obligations regarding data protection - the balance, at the highest possible level, between the various primary needs, such as:  
1. the protection of individuals in a condition of particular vulnerability (such as minors and incapacitated persons) against the unfortunately not remote risk of abuse and violence,  
2. the need for evidentiary reconstruction of crimes, such as those under examination, for which in most cases there are no witnesses able to facilitate investigations,  
3. the freedom of the worker in the performance of their duties, and finally,  
4. the right to the protection of personal data of the various subjects captured by the video surveillance system: not only the workers, therefore, but also the very guests of the educational or care facilities considered in the bill.  
The guarantee of the worker's freedom of self-determination is, moreover, functional to the spontaneity that must necessarily characterize work performances such as those of a training or assistance nature, the quality of which could be compromised by the awareness of the individual being subjected to constant surveillance, with inevitably negative implications for the educational or care relationship itself.  
The proposed video surveillance system, in fact, while realizing a control of work activity (as the dynamics of the educational or care relationship is the subject of the recording), does not pursue objectives internal to the employment relationship, as in the classic paradigm of remote work controls.  
The guarantees established by Article 4 of the Statute for the protection of workers (concertative or authorization procedures) remain, in fact, certainly applicable (as provided for by the same Article 4, paragraph 3, of the bill) from a procedural perspective, to the extent that the proposed system implements remote control.  
However, the labor framework does not exhaust the particular complexity and articulation of this treatment, which, while impacting work activity, aims to protect third parties with respect to the employment relationship (minors and incapacitated persons).  
The excess, in this sense, of the proposed treatment compared to traditional frameworks must, therefore, prompt the legislator to reflect on the peculiarities of the balancing that must be achieved, around legal interests of primary constitutional relevance.  
It is therefore a matter of understanding what degree of limitation of the worker's freedom - inevitably resulting from the continuous operation of cameras - can be admitted for the protection of incapacitated individuals entrusted to others' care, as well as for facilitating the eventual evidentiary reconstruction in criminal proceedings, which is naturally hindered by the incapacity of almost all possible witnesses of any crimes committed to testify.  
In other words, it is about tracing the threshold beyond which the fundamental right to the protection of personal data is compressed into that essential core, which Article 52 of the Charter of Nice prescribes as inviolable, even in the face of the need to protect legally relevant assets for the legal system.  
The proposed text presents undeniable improvements compared to its original version and, even more so, to those presented at the beginning of the last legislature:  
- the installation of cameras, which was indiscriminately mandatory, has been allowed only in cases of actual necessity;  
- provisions have been made for the encryption of collected data and the prohibition of access to the same, which can only be overridden by investigative authorities during investigations, for evidentiary purposes;  
- a reference has been added to the sanctions applicable in case of violation of the provisions for the protection of the interested party and...
of the legitimacy of processing, which may lead to very high amounts;
- the definition of the obligations to be observed for the legitimacy of processing has been correctly entrusted to the Authority, with its own provision, referring to the general type of processing that presents high risks for the execution of a task in the public interest, as we suggested.
And this - as recognized by the original text with reference to Article 17 of the Code - is due to the potential extent of such processing, the subjects involved (not only workers but also minors and individuals assisted in care facilities, from whom the condition of illness can easily be inferred), as well as the continuity of video recordings;
- references to the institutions and cornerstone regulations of data protection have been updated to the new European legal framework.
Despite these undeniable improvements (with respect to which it is desirable not to regress), the scope of operation of the processing remains quite broad and heterogeneous.
Video surveillance would, in fact, be permitted in nurseries, kindergartens, as well as in socio-health and socio-assistance facilities for the elderly and disabled, whether residential, semi-residential, or daytime.
In this regard, further reflection could be conducted on the operational perimeter of the regulation, evaluating whether all the indicated places actually present a degree of risk sufficient to justify a significant limitation of the worker's freedom in the performance of educational or care duties.
The capacity for expression and awareness of a child in the last year of kindergarten is, in fact, not comparable to that of a child in the first year of nursery, just as the degree of vulnerability - and thus the risk factor of the guests in various socio-health or socio-assistance facilities is extremely heterogeneous.
This consideration may be useful to circumscribe the discretion of the choice regarding installation, guiding the authority granted by law to each facility based on parameters such as:
- the risk factors inherent to the reference context;
- the actual necessity of video surveillance based on the characteristics of the hosted subjects, the duration of their stay, or the specificities of the facility itself.
In this way, it would be ensured that the use of such an invasive monitoring tool occurs - according to a criterion of non-substitutability - only where other less restrictive measures of privacy prove ineffective, thus also guiding the discretion of the holders.
These criteria were the basis for the transition, already established in the last legislature, from the requirement of mandatory video surveillance to its legitimization whenever necessary.
This choice underlies a balance between fundamental rights that must be conducted according to the principle of proportionality.
This is an essential regulatory criterion for processing, but also a general parameter for the legitimacy of limitations on the right to data protection, to be observed even in the exercise of legislative power (hence the provision for the mandatory opinion of the Authority also on primary legislation).

According to the Charter of Nice, limitations on the exercise of fundamental rights (including the right to data protection), although provided for by law and responding to general interest purposes or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others, are admissible only if:
• respectful of the essential content of the right;
• necessary (thus non-substitutable) in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
Article 5, paragraph 1 of Convention No. 108 of 1981 also establishes the principle of proportionality in processing, so that "personal data that would be adequate and relevant, but would imply a disproportionate interference with the fundamental rights and freedoms at stake, must be considered excessive."
These principles have been interpreted by European Courts as allowing restrictive measures on rights only in the presence of specific requirements and in the face of the ineffectiveness of less invasive systems, since "derogations and restrictions" on fundamental rights must occur "within the limits of what is strictly necessary," with the same European norms that provided for limitations on the right to data protection being annulled whenever effective but less invasive measures could be conceived.
It would therefore be difficult to consider the obligation of constant video surveillance of all educational staff and, on the other hand, of all children present in both nurseries and kindergartens across the country, regardless of the actual existence of specific risks (it would make little sense, for example, for schools with glass classrooms).
For care facilities, the same consideration applies for the purposes of the proportionality of processing, although video surveillance there is subject to the consent of the individuals being recorded, which is difficult to consider as always genuinely free and, therefore, valid, especially regarding data related to health conditions.
The abstract, generalized, and undifferentiated normative presumption of the existence - in all the aforementioned educational and care facilities present in the country - of risk factors such as to consider video surveillance the only system capable of ensuring the safety of the hosted subjects would not appear, in other words, to comply with the necessity and proportionality criteria.
To ensure the compliance of the text with European parameters, it therefore seems appropriate not to call into question the balance achieved during this complex legislative process - at least in terms of the non-abstract mandatory nature of video surveillance.
surveillance-, also referring, if necessary, to the regulatory source for the definition of the criteria based on which to legitimize it.

It is also generally desirable to enhance measures aimed at investing, in a preventive manner, in the training of operators, also introducing more articulated control systems that actively involve all personnel and, if necessary, the families themselves without compromising the trust relationship. In relational contexts such as those examined—where the quality of the relationship established between the parties is what matters—it is, in fact, difficult for cameras to compensate for the shortcomings inherent in the training of personnel responsible for the education and assistance of individuals deserving of greater attention.