DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

TO: Chief Constable West Mercia Police 

REPRIMAND 

OF: Hindlip Hall 
Hindlip 
Worcester 
WR3 8SP 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Chief Constable West Mercia Police (West Mercia Police) in accordance 
with Schedule 13(2)(c) of the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in 
respect of certain infringements of the DPA 2018.  

In summary, on 21 June 2021 West Mercia Police and Warwickshire Police 
erroneously decommissioned a server containing a Warwickshire Police 
application called 
 contained Warwickshire Police 
data from between November 2001 and early 2014. The 
which has been lost on 

 is unrecoverable. 

 data 

 

Between March 2012 and March 2020, West Mercia Police and 
Warwickshire Police were part of a Strategic Alliance (Alliance), which 
sought to achieve financial benefits and operational efficiencies for both 
forces by sharing certain functions. Part of this Alliance saw the sharing of 
IT infrastructure, including the merger and consolidation of data networks 
and environments.  

On 31 March 2020, the Alliance formally ended and the forces shared 
functions came to an end. However, as the process of separating out and 
migrating the forces data from the shared IT infrastructure to their own 
independent IT infrastructures would take a considerable amount of time, 
the forces entered into a new s22A Collaboration Agreement for Shared 
ICT and Digital Services (Collaboration Agreement) and IT Shared 
Services (ITSS) was put in place to manage the shared environment post 
Alliance. This agreement was in place between 1 April 2020 and 30 
September 2021. 

Under the Alliance, the forces had established the KCOM project with the 
over-arching purpose of moving all live services from the legacy network 
(KCOM provided) to the new network, however it also involved 
decommissioning servers which were no longer needed. Some of the 
servers identified by the KCOM project as ready for decommissioning 
were not decommissioned by the Alliance IT team as the task was initially 

1 

parked in favour of more pressing operational priorities. Following the end 
of the Alliance, the project was passed to ITSS for action. 
 
During 2021, ITSS undertook remedial security tasks to support the 
forces cyber defence. These security tasks included the removal of 
unsupported servers, including the previously parked KCOM 
decommissioning list. The server containing 
list and had been marked by the KCOM project as ready for 
decommissioning. This resulted in the server being subsequently 
decommissioned by ITSS on 21 June 2021. 

 was included within this 

This investigation has determined that for the shared IT function under 
the Collaboration Agreement, the forces were acting as joint Data 
Controllers. ITSS was created by both forces and was jointly governed 
and funded at the time. As the decommissioning of the server was carried 
out pursuant to the ITSS function set out in the Collaboration Agreement, 
the Commissioner considers that the forces were acting as joint Data 
Controllers in respect of the decommissioning. 
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to West Mercia Police 
in respect of the following alleged infringements of the DPA 2018: 

•  Section 40 which states: 

 
“The sixth data protection principle is that personal data processed for 
any of the law enforcement purposes must be so processed in a manner 
that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, using appropriate 
technical or organisational measures (and, in this principle, “appropriate 
security” includes protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage).”. 

•  Section 66 (1) which states: 

 
“Each controller and each processor must implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to 
the risks arising from the processing of personal data.” 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  

•  Section 40: 

The Commissioner considers that West Mercia Police has failed to ensure 
appropriate security, resulting in the destruction of Warwickshire Police 

 data. 

 

 

2 

It is noted that at the time of entering the Alliance, Warwickshire Police 
‘back record converted’ its 
This was a total of 160,203 sanitised 
related to 55,195 nominals. Therefore, the sanitised 

 logs from 

 can still be viewed by Warwickshire Police, however 

 into its new system. 
 logs and the information 
 logs from 
 was the only 
 logs and the following 

system which contained the unsanitised 
information: 

- 

 source/provenance including names and 

addresses/location of source. 

-  Submitting Officer including name, rank, role and shift. 
-  Unsanitised text including names, addresses/locations, 
allegations of criminal conduct, previous convictions or 
cautions, details of relationships and associations. 

-  Risk assessments regarding the 

 including 

information such as previous convictions of the subject of the 

 and/or their associates, details of any further 

allegations of criminal conduct. 
 

The information which has been lost on 
and is needed for the assessment of reliability of the 
risks associated with it.  

 provided important context 
 and the 

 

•  Section 66 (1): 

The Commissioner considers that the ITSS decommissioning process 
which was in place at the time of the decommissioning was inadequate 
and did not ensure sufficient checks of servers prior to decommissioning. 
 
The documentation which was used by the Alliance KCOM project team 
and subsequently by ITSS, as authority on the status of servers, was out 
 as being unused since March 2016. 
of date as it incorrectly identified 
It now seems likely that the documentation was not updated since 
original move in 2016, leading to the KCOM project treating 
 as 
sunset/archive, without further review. The incorrect information was 
then used by ITSS to schedule and complete the decommissioning. Over-
reliance on this documentation led to no cross-checking between 
applications and server details before decommissioning. 
 
All decommissioning of KCOM servers was agreed by the ITSS Protection 
of the Live Services (POTLS) process. This included requests for 
decommissions being emailed out by ITSS to internal technical services 
for review. The peer reviewed request would then be sent to all POTLS 
attendees prior to the meeting and all changes were reviewed and agreed 

 

 

3 

 

 as a system which 

during POTLS. The technician completing the decommissioning would 
complete the above process at initial power-down of the server, then wait 
30 days to ensure that any user could raise an issue with the 
decommissioning. After 30 days POTLS would be revisited for permission 
to decommission the server. This should include a review of any 
outstanding IT tickets raised by users. 
 
In this instance, the request to decommission the server containing 
did go through POTLS. However, a cut-down version of the 
decommissioning process was applied, in that the final removal, following 
the 30 day power-off was pre-approved at the first presentation to 
POTLS. Although an approved process at the time, this did not reinforce 
that all IT tickets should have been checked and updated prior to 
decommissioning. This contributed to ITSS missing an IT ticket which was 
raised by a user and which would have flagged 
needed to be retained. 
 
Further to this, POTLS attendance was not mandatory for both forces and 
required a lot of proactivity by Project Managers to ensure that they 
attended the correct POTLS. Attendance and meeting minutes were also 
not recorded at POTLS. 
 
Remedial steps taken by West Mercia Police 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by West Mercia Police in the light of this incident. In particular, 
West Mercia Police conducted an internal investigation to determine how 
the breach occurred, including a review of the ITSS decommissioning 
process. Following this review, the process was strengthened and the 
POTLS process was replaced by the Change Advisory Board (CAB). Both 
forces gained from this improvement under the subsequent Hosted 
Services Agreement which was in place from October 2021. 
It is also noted that the Hosted Services Agreement came to an end in 
March 2022 and that both forces now have their own independent IT 
infrastructures and IT services. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
West Mercia Police in relation to the infringements of section 40 and 
section 66 (1) of the DPA 2018 set out above. 

 

4 

