
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02/25/2020
                                New model solutions for data protection in everyday practice Coordinated models for the implementation of data protection in medical and psychotherapeutic practices are now available! Press release of the initiative "Mit-Sicherheit-gut-treated" from February 10th, 2020 New model solutions for data protection in everyday practice Coordinated models for the implementation of data protection in medical and psychotherapeutic practices are now available! The initiative "Mit-Sicherheit-gut-treated" is now providing various templates for the implementation of appropriate data protection in everyday practice on its website www.mit-Sicherheit-gut-treated.de. These were developed by the cooperation partners of the initiative together with psychotherapeutic and medical pilot practices in order to make it even easier for practice owners to guarantee data protection. The templates are used, for example, to prepare the list of processing activities, internal work specifications and declarations of consent and release from confidentiality. The proposed solutions and their explanations are easy to understand, have been tested in everyday practice, meet the data protection requirements and can be implemented with reasonable effort. Two further training events in June 2020 should also create the opportunity to ask questions about the patterns, their history of origin and their practical use in the presence of the pilot practices involved. The project from which the model solutions emerged started in March 2019 with an analysis of the implementation status of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the participating pilot practices. After the cooperation partners had visited the psychotherapeutic and medical pilot practices, the templates were created. The models developed were tested by the pilot practices in the third quarter of 2019 with regard to their practical suitability. In addition, two other medical practices were involved in the project, who commented on the drafts of the templates and made their own suggestions. The processes and templates presented have proven themselves and can now also be used by other practice owners for support. The cooperation partners of the initiative expressly underline the importance of data protection in everyday practice. "With a little extra effort and well-structured processes, it is definitely possible to implement the specifications of the GDPR. It's worth it, because after all, we all want our personal data to be handled as responsibly as possible - especially in the healthcare sector! The State Chamber of Psychotherapists offers its members concrete assistance within the framework of the cooperation," says Dr. Andrea Benecke, Vice President of the Rhineland-Palatinate State Chamber of Psychotherapists. “Our modern forms of communication and cooperation require new skills and qualifications. Data protection and its implementation are part of it, after all, the sensitive data of our patients is in our care," explains Dr. Günther Matheis, President of the State Medical Association of Rhineland-Palatinate. "We support you as a cooperation partner by making the documentation work easier for you with tried-and-tested sample solutions," he adds. “Data protection-compliant solutions can also be suitable for everyday use. With the templates now presented and the underlying process of their creation, the initiative shows that and how the legally mandatory requirements of data protection can be implemented in the routine of everyday practice. I very much hope that the practice owners will make active use of both the templates that are now available and the events on offer.” adds Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, the Rhineland-Palatinate state data protection officer. The draft bill on the "Patient Data Protection Act" recently presented by Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn shows how immensely important patient data protection is at the moment. The aim of this law is to bring digital solutions to patients quickly and to protect sensitive patient data in the best possible way. Six years ago we recognized the importance of the topic with our initiative "Treated well with safety" and created an important building block for raising awareness among our members," emphasizes Peter Andreas Staub, Member of the Board of Directors of KV RLP Use of the templates in everyday practice and general information on data protection can be obtained from the upcoming training courses of the "With-Sicherheit-gut-treated" initiative:03.06.2020  Event for psychological psychotherapists* and child and adolescent psychotherapists24.06.2020   Event for doctors* Inside You can find more detailed information about the events here and on the websites of the State Chamber of Psychotherapists, State Medical Association and KV Rhineland-Palatinate. Registration is via the Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians (RLP).
                                return
                            



