  Deliberation HAB-2023-001 of February 9, 2023National Commission for Computing and LibertiesNature of the deliberation: Internal provision cnilLegal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Wednesday May 17, 2023NOR: CNIL2304261XDeliberation No. HAB-2023-001 of 9 February 2023 authorizing agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to carry out verification missionsThe National Commission for Computing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data; Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3; Considering the law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2 g, 10, 11 and 19; Having heard Mr. Damien MILIC, Deputy Government Commissioner, in his observations, Decides: The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties (CNIL) hereinafter designated are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code:Mr. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ahlam AMMI, violation and cross-functional project manager in the technological expertise department of the of innovation; Mr. Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Audrey BACQUIÉ, registry officer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle BARBÉ, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Siré BARRY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Jean BAUDRILLARD, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations department; Ms. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, legal investigation officer in the exercise of rights and complaints department in the protection department of rights and sanctions; Mrs Najma BICHARA, jurist in the European and international affairs department; Mr. Martin BIÉRI, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thomas BIZET, Head of the Public Relations Department in the Public Relations Department; Ms. Nathalie BOHBOT, Information Systems Auditor in the Controls Department, Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Renaud BOITOUZET, project manager in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Cécile BOSSER, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations department; Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, senior health engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Ms Sihame BOUSOUF, registry officer in the sanctions and litigation department of the rights and sanctions; Ms Justine BRAIVE, legal expert in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department of the rights protection and Sanctions; Ms Céline BRÉZILLON, Deputy Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms Émilie BRUNET, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Ms Solenn BRUNET , expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Marjolaine CASSAR, lawyer in the control department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Madeleine CAZETTES DE SAINT LÉGER, lawyer at the Department of Sanctions and Litigation at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Mehdi CHAÏB, lawyer in the control department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Lucie CHARTRAIN, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, assistant to the head of the sanctions and litigation department in the department for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Isabelle COHEN, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Marion de GASQUET, assistant to the head of the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities at the legal support department; Mrs Justine DEBOTÉ, registrar in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Isabelle DELERUE, in charge of legal investigation at the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Grégoire DELETTE, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs. Amélie DELEUZE, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Director of Public Relations; Ms. Maryange DICHI, Information Systems Auditor in the Controls Department of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms. Sadio DIOUMASSY, Legal Investigation Officer in the Department of exercise of rights and complaints to the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Julien DROCHON, lead information systems auditor in the control department of the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Antoine DROIN, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, Assistant to the Head of the Controls Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Louis DUTHEILLET DE LAMOTHE, Secretary General; Mrs Viktorija ELENSKI, Legal Officer in the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mrs Anne FONTANILLE, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Mrs Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general;Mr. Thomas FRESSIN, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs Marie GAILLARDON, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department of the rights protection and penalties department; . Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Antoine GAUME, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Rodolphe GÉNISSEL, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Head of the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and of sanctions; Ms Laurène GOIRAND, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Yoann GONTHIER LE GUEN, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and penalties department; Ms Sarah GUILLOU, lawyer in the penalties and litigation department of the rights protection and penalties department; Ms Sandra GREBER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms. Estelle HARY, designer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory in the direction of technologies and innovation; Ms. Clarisse HESLAUT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Agathe HUBERT, lawyer at the control service at the directorate of protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Sonia HUDELA , responsible for legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control service in the direction of protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control service of the direction of protection of rights and Sanctions; Ms. Karin KIEFER, Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mr. Anton KISYELYOV, lawyer in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Jérémie KOUZMINE, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms. Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department ;M. Victor LARGER, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Sébastien LASTRÉ, information systems auditor in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Nina LE BONNIEC, lawyer in the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the legal support department; . Alexis LEAUTIER, Expert Engineer in the Technological Expertise Department at the Technology and Innovation Department; Mrs. Delphine LEGOHEREL, Deputy Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mr. Emmanuel LEROUX, lawyer in the European and international affairs department; Mrs Noémie LICHON, head of the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, lawyer in the exercise of Rights and Complaints to the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Isabelle MANTZ, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Delphine MARGULIS, Legal Investigation Officer in the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms. Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Tony MARTIN, Deputy Head of the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Clothilde MAULIN, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Oriane MAURICE, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms Nina MCEVOY, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms Lynda MEKKI, cybersecurity engineer specializing in handling incidents in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mrs. Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department in the department for the protection of rights and penalties; Mr. Mathias MOULIN, Deputy Secretary General; Ms Sophie NERBONNE, Director in charge of economic co-regulation; Ms Rabia OUADDAH, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, director of technologies and innovation; Mrs Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Antoine PLANCHOT, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Laetitia RACINE, assistant to the head of the exercise of rights and complaints department in the department for the protection of rights and Sanctions; Ms Délia RAHAL-LOFSKOG, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Ms Florence RAYNAL, Head of the European and International Affairs Department; Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Alexandre RIABTSEV, apprentice engineer in information systems security in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs Albane RICHET, deputy head of the department for the exercise of rights and complaints to the management protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Anne-Charlotte ROUGELIN, legal consultant in the public relations department of the relations with the public; Mrs Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Jeanne SALIOU, lawyer in the European and international affairs department; Mrs Claudine SANLAVILLE, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Benoit SEGUIN, Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mr. Hugo SENAYA, Legal Advisor in the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms Lola TAIEB, Legal Advisor in the Department for Sanctions and Litigation in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights sanctions; Ms Ahlem TAMOUZA, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the legal support department; Ms Jamila TAZI, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department in the department of protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Vincent TOUBIANA, head of the digital innovation laboratory service in the technology and innovation department; Ms Rokia TRAORE, legal investigation officer in the exercise of rights and complaints service in the data protection department rights and penalties; Mr. Félicien VALLET, deputy head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Marco VERMEIL, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations department; Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr.Christophe VIVENT, cybersecurity engineer specialized in handling incidents in the service of technological expertise in the direction of technologies and innovation; Ms Clémentine VOISARD, project manager in the public relations department in the public relations department; Ms Aminata VOYEL, information systems auditor in the control department in the protection department rights and sanctions; Article 2: Deliberation noHAB-2022-006 of November 3, 2022 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions is repealed. Article 3: The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will be published in the Official Journal of the French Republic. President Marie-Laure DENIS