 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 28/2018 

regarding the European Commission Draft Implementing 

Decision  

on the adequate protection of personal data in Japan  

 

 

 

Adopted on 5 December 2018 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..................................................................................................................... 4 

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

Areas of convergence .............................................................................................................. 5 

General challenges .................................................................................................................. 5 

Specific commercial aspects .................................................................................................... 6 

1.3.1 

1.3.2 

Concerns of the EDPB with regards to key data protection principles ........................... 6 

Need for clarification ....................................................................................................... 7 

1.4 

1.5 

On the access by public authorities to data transferred to Japan .......................................... 7 

Conclusion ............................................................................................................................... 7 

2 

INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................... 8 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

Japan’s data protection framework ........................................................................................ 8 

Scope of the EDPB’s assessment ............................................................................................. 9 

General comments and concerns.......................................................................................... 10 

2.3.1 

2.3.2 

2.3.3 

2.3.4 

2.3.5 

2.3.6 

Specificities of this type of adequacy decision .............................................................. 10 

Certainty of translations ................................................................................................ 10 

Sectorial Adequacy ........................................................................................................ 11 

Binding nature of Supplementary Rules and of PPC Guidelines ................................... 11 

Periodic review of the adequacy finding ....................................................................... 12 

International commitments entered into by Japan ...................................................... 12 

2.3.7 
before a court ................................................................................................................................ 13 

Powers of DPAs to bring actions concerning the validity of an adequacy decision 

3 

COMMERCIAL ASPECTS ................................................................................................................. 13 

3.1 

Content principles ................................................................................................................. 13 

3.1.1 

3.1.2 

3.1.3 

3.1.4 

3.1.5 

3.1.6 

Concepts ........................................................................................................................ 13 

Grounds for lawful and fair processing for legitimate purposes................................... 16 

The transparency principle ............................................................................................ 17 

Restrictions on onward transfers .................................................................................. 18 

Direct marketing ............................................................................................................ 21 

Automated decision making and profiling .................................................................... 21 

3.2 

Procedural and enforcement mechanisms ........................................................................... 22 

3.2.1 

3.2.2 

Competent independent Supervisory Authority ........................................................... 22 

The data protection system must ensure a good level of compliance ......................... 22 

3.2.3 
The data protection system must provide support and help to individual data subjects 
in the exercise of their rights and appropriate redress mechanisms ........................................... 23 

4  ON THE ACCESS BY PUBLIC AUTHORITIES TO THE DATA TRANSFERRED TO JAPAN ..................... 24 

 

2 

4.1 

Law enforcement access to data ........................................................................................... 25 

4.1.1 

4.1.2 

4.1.3 

Procedures for accessing data in the field of criminal law ............................................ 25 

Oversight in the field of criminal law ............................................................................ 27 

Redress in the field of criminal law ............................................................................... 30 

4.2 

Access for national security purposes ................................................................................... 36 

4.2.1 

4.2.2 

4.2.3 

4.2.4 

Scope of surveillance ..................................................................................................... 36 

Voluntary disclosure in case of national security .......................................................... 38 

Oversight ....................................................................................................................... 38 

Redress mechanism ....................................................................................................... 40 

 

3 

 

 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 70.1(s) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 
 

1  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The European Commission endorsed   its draft implementing decision on the adequate protection of 
personal data by Japan pursuant to the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR)1 on 5  
September  20182.    Following  this,  the  European  Commission  initiated  the  procedure  for  its  formal 
adoption.  

On  25  September  2018,  the  European  Commission  asked  for  the  opinion  of  the  European  Data 
Protection Board (“EDPB”)3. The Commission was requested to provide the EDPB with all the necessary 
documentation  with  regards  to  this  country,  including  any  relevant  correspondence  with  the 
government of Japan.   

In the light of the discussions held with the EDPB, the European Commission modified twice its draft 
adequacy decision, and sent its last version on 13 November 20184 The EDPB has based its present 
Opinion  on  this  latest  version  of  the  draft  implementing  decision  (hereinafter  “draft  adequacy 
decision”). 

The EDPB’s assessment of the level of protection ensured by the Commission’s adequacy decision has 
been  made  on  the  examination  of  the  decision  itself  as  well  as  on  the  basis  of  an  analysis  of  the 
documentation made available 5– by the Commission6.  

The EDPB focused on the assessment of both the commercial aspects of the draft adequacy decision 
and  on  the  government  access  to  personal  data  transferred  from  the  EU  for  the  purposes  of  law 
enforcement and national security, including the legal remedies available to EU individuals. The EDPB 

                                                           
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data  and on the free movement  of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC. 
2 See Press release http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-18-5433_en.htm. 
3 Pursuant to Article 70 (1) (s) of the GDPR. 
4 See Annex I of the EDPB Opinion for the updated version of the draft  European Commission implementing 
decision.  
5  The  EDPB  based  its  analysis  on  translations  provided  by  the  Japanese  authorities  verified  by  the  European 
Commission  
6 See Annex II of the EDPB Opinion for the list of documents not provided by the European Commission to the 
EDPB.  

4 

 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

also assessed whether the safeguards provided under the Japanese legal framework are in place and 
effective.  

The EDPB has used as a main reference for this work its adequacy referential7 adopted in February 
2018.  

  Areas of convergence 

1.1 
The EDPB’s key objective has been to give an opinion to the European Commission on the level of 
protection afforded to individuals in the Japanese framework. It is important to recognise  that the 
EDPB does not expect the Japanese legal framework to replicate European data protection law.  

However, the EDPB recalls that to be considered providing an adequate level of protection, the case 
law of the CJEU as well as Article 45 of the GDPR require that the third country's legislation needs to 
be aligned to the essence of the fundamental principles enshrined in the GDPR. In the areas of data 
protection, the EDPB further notes that there are key areas of alignment between the GDPR framework 
and  the  Japanese  framework  on  certain  core  provisions  such  as  data  accuracy  and  minimisation, 
storage  limitation,  data  security,  purpose  limitation and  an  independent  supervisory  authority,  the 
Personal Information Protection Commission (PPC).  

In addition to the above, the EDPB welcomes the efforts made by the European Commission and the 
Japanese authorities to ensure that Japan provides an adequate level of protection to that of the GDPR 
especially by filling the gaps between the GDPR and the Japanese data protection framework through 
the adoption of additional rules by the PPC applicable only to personal data transferred from the EU 
to Japan, the Supplementary Rules. For example, the EDPB notes that the PPC agreed to treat further 
categories of data as sensitive data (sensitive data under the Japanese legislation do not include sex 
orientation  nor  trade  union  membership).  In  addition,  the  Supplementary  Rules  ensure  that  data 
subject rights will apply to all personal data transferred from the EU, irrespective of their retention 
period (whereas the Japanese legal system provides that data subject rights do not apply to personal 
data that are set to be deleted within a period of six months). 

10. 

The EDPB also notes the efforts of the European Commission in strengthening the adequacy decision 
in response to the concerns raised by the EDPB. 

1.2 

  General challenges 

11.  Nonetheless, challenges remain and the EDPB suggests the following as the main areas that should be 

strengthened and closely monitored in the Japanese system.  

12. 

13. 

The first challenge relates to the monitoring of this new architecture of adequacy, which is combining 
an existing legal framework with specific Supplementary Rules, to ensure that it will be a sustainable 
and reliable system that will not raise practical issues regarding the concrete and efficient compliance 
by Japanese entities and enforcement by the PPC. 

Secondly,  the  EDPB  takes  note  of  the  repeated  commitments  and  reassurances  of  the  European 
Commission  and  of  the  Japanese  authorities  regarding  the  binding  and  enforceable  nature  of  the 
Supplementary Rules whilst inviting the European Commission to continuously monitor their binding 
nature and effective application in Japan as their legal value is an absolutely essential element of the 
EU – Japan adequacy. With respect to the PPC guidelines, the EDPB would welcome clarifications in 

                                                           
7 WP254, Adequacy Referential, 6 February 2018. 

 

5 

the draft adequacy decision in relation to their binding nature and asks the Commission to attentively 
monitor this aspect8.   

14. 

15. 

  Specific commercial aspects 

1.3 
In the area of the commercial aspects of the draft EU – Japan adequacy decision, the EDPB has some 
specific concerns and would like to request clarifications on some important matters. 

1.3.1  Concerns of the EDPB with regards to key data protection principles 
The EDPB welcomes that the Supplementary Rules exclude that personal data transferred from the EU 
is further transferred to a third country on the basis of APEC – CBPRs. In addition, the EDPB recognises 
that in its new draft of the adequacy decision, the European Commission committed itself to suspend 
the adequacy decision when onward transfers no longer ensure the continuity of protection.  

16.  Under the Japanese legislation, one of the legal basis for onward transfers is the recognition of a third 
country as providing an adequate level of protection to that of Japan. However, the assessment of a 
third  country  as  adequate  by  Japan  seems  not  to  include  the  specific  “Supplementary  Rules” 
negotiated between the European Commission and the PPC which are only applicable to EU personal 
data in order to provide for a level of protection essentially equivalent to the GDPR standards. It follows 
that  EU  personal  data  that  are  transferred  from  Japan  to  another  third  country  not  recognised  as 
having an essentially equivalent data protection framework to the GDPR on the basis of a Japanese 
adequacy will not necessarily enjoy the specific protection for EU personal data anymore.  

17. 

It  should  however  be  borne  in  mind  that  onward  transfers  of  personal  data  may  occur  to  third 
countries  which  become  subject  to  a  possible  later  Japanese  adequacy  decision.  These  third 
countries may not have been subject of a previous assessment or adequacy finding of the EU. At this 
point the COM should take over its monitoring role and ensure the level of protection of EU data is 
maintained or consider suspension of this adequacy decision. 

18.  Moreover,  the  EDPB  has  concerns  in  relation  to  the  consent  and  transparency  obligations  of  data 
controllers (PIHBOs). The EDPB made a careful check of these elements for the reason that, differently 
to European data protection law, the use of consent as a basis for processing and for transfers has a 
central role in the Japanese legal system. For example, the EDPB has concerns regarding the notion of 
consent which is not defined in a way to include the right to withdrawal, an essential element under 
EU  law  to  ensure  the  data  subject’s  genuine  control  over  his/her  personal  data.  Regarding  the 
transparency obligations of a PIHBO, there are doubts as to whether proactive information is given to 
data subjects.  

19. 

The EDPB is concerned that the Japanese redress system may not be of easy access to individuals in 
the  EU  needing  support  or  wishing  to  make  a  complaint  in  light  of  the  fact  that  PPC’s  support  is 
available via Helpline and in Japanese only. The same issue exists with the mediation service provided 
by the PPC as the system is not publicised on the English version of the PPC’s website whilst important 
informative  documents,  such  as  the  frequently  asked  questions  on  the  APPI,  are  also  available  in 
Japanese only. In this respect, the EDPB would welcome if the Commission could discuss with the PPC 
the possibility of setting up an online service, at least in English, aimed at providing support to, and 
handle complaints of, individuals in the EU – similar to the one envisaged in Annex II of this adequacy 
decision. The European Commission will also need to monitor closely the effectiveness of sanctions 
and of relevant remedies.  

                                                           
8 See Section 1.3.4 of the present opinion for more information. 

 

6 

 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

1.3.2  Need for clarification 
The EDPB would welcome assurances on some aspects of the draft adequacy decision on which further 
clarification is still needed.  

These relate for example, to some key concepts of the Japanese legislation. More specifically, there is 
a lack of clarity around the status of the so-called “trustee”- a term which resembles to the one of the 
data processor under the GDPR but whose ability to determine and change the purposes and means 
of processing of personal data remains ambiguous.  

The  EDPB  would  also  need  assurances  due  to  lack  of  the  relevant  documents,  on  whether  the 
restrictions to the rights of individuals (in particular, rights of access, rectification, and objection) are 
necessary and proportionate in a democratic society and respect the essence of fundamental rights.  

The EDPB would also expect that the European Commission closely monitors  the effective protection 
of personal data transferred from the EU to Japan, based on the draft adequacy decision,  throughout 
their whole “life cycle” even though the Japanese legislation imposes a record keeping obligation of 
the origin of the data for a maximum of three years. 

1.4  On the access by public authorities to data transferred to Japan 
The EDPB has also analysed the legal framework for Japanese governmental entities when accessing 
personal data transferred from the EU to Japan for law enforcement or national security purposes. 
While acknowledging the reassurances provided by the Japanese government, referred to as the Annex 
II to the draft adequacy decision, the EDPB has identified a number of aspects for clarifications and of 
concern, of which the following should be highlighted.  

In the area of law enforcement, the EDPB notes that the legal principles applying to access data often 
appear  to  be  similar  to  the  rules  in  the  EU,  to  the  extent  they  are  available.  The  lack  of  available 
translations of several legal texts and of relevant case law make it difficult, however, to conclude that 
all the procedures for accessing data are necessary and proportionate and that the application of those 
principles are applied in a way which is “essentially equivalent” to EU law.  

In the area of national security, the EDPB recognises that the Japanese government has restated that 
information may only be obtained from freely accessible sources or through voluntary disclosure by 
companies, and that  it does  not  collect information on the general public. It is aware, however, of 
concerns  expressed  by  experts  and  in  the  media,  and  would  welcome  further  clarification  on 
surveillance measures by Japanese governmental entities.   

27.  As to the legal redress of EU individuals, in the area of law enforcement as well as national security, 
the EDPB welcomes that the European Commission and the Japanese government have negotiated an 
additional  mechanism  for  EU  individuals  to  provide  them  with  an  additional  redress  avenue,  and 
thereby extending the powers of the Japanese data protection authority. However, a point of concern 
remains that this new mechanism does not entirely compensate for the shortcomings of oversight and 
redress under Japanese law. The EDPB thus seeks for further clarifications in order to ensure that this 
new mechanism does fully compensate those shortcomings. 

28. 

1.5  Conclusion 
The EDPB considers that this adequacy decision is of paramount  importance. As the first adequacy 
decision  since  the  entering  into  force  of  GDPR,  it  will  constitute  a  precedent  for  future  adequacy 

 

7 

applications as well as for the review of the adequacy decisions rendered under Directive 95/469. It 
is  also  important  to  underline  that  individuals  are  more  and  more  conscious  of  the  impact  of 
globalisation  on  their  privacy  and  turn  to  their  supervisory  authorities  to  ensure  that  adequate 
guarantees are in place when their personal data are transferred abroad. In light of these implications, 
the EDPB believes that the European Commission should ensure that there are no shortcomings in the 
protection offered by the EU-Japan adequacy and that this specific type of adequacy is aligned with 
the requirements of Article 45 of the GDPR.  

29. 

The EDPB welcomes the efforts made by the European Commission and the Japanese PPC to align as 
much as possible the Japanese legal framework to the European one. The improvements brought in 
by the Supplementary Rules to bridge some of the differences between the two frameworks are very 
important and well received.  

30.  However, following a careful analysis of the Commission’s draft adequacy decision as well as of the 
Japanese data protection framework, the EDPB notices that a number of concerns, coupled with the 
need for further clarifications, remain. Further, this specific type of adequacy combining an existing 
national  framework  with  additional  specific  rules  also  raises  questions  about  its  operational 
implementation. In light of the above, the EDPB recommends the European Commission to address 
the  concerns  and  requests  for  clarification  raised  by  the  EDPB  and  provide  further  evidence  and 
explanations  regarding  the  issues  being  raised.  The  EDPB  also  invites  the  European  Commission  to 
conduct  a  review  of  this  adequacy  finding  (at  least)  every  two  years  and  not  every  four  years  as 
suggested in the current draft adequacy decision.   

2  INTRODUCTION 

31. 

Japan’s data protection framework 

2.1 
Japan’s data protection framework was modernized very recently, in 2017. This framework comprises 
several pillars, at the centre of which there is a general statutory law, the Act on Protection of Personal 
Information (APPI). Another important piece of legislation is the Cabinet Order to Enforce the APPI 
(“Cabinet Order”) which specifies certain core principles of the APPI.  

32.  Based on a Cabinet decision, adopted on 12 June 201810 and Article 6 of the APPI, the PPC was given 
the power to “take necessary action to bridge the differences of the systems and operations between 
Japan  and  the  concerned  foreign  country  in  view  of  ensuring  appropriate  handling  of  personal 
information received from each country”11. The Cabinet decision also suggests that the rules adopted 
by  the  PPC  supplementing  or  going  beyond  those  laid  down  in  the  APPI  would  be  binding  and 
enforceable on the Japanese business operators12.  

33.  Accordingly, the PPC engaged in negotiations with the  European Commission and adopted, in June 
2018, stricter rules to the ones of the APPI and the Cabinet Order to be applied to data transferred 
from  the  EU.    These  are  the  Supplementary  Rules  under  the  Act  on  the  Protection  of  Personal 
Information for the Handling of Personal Data Transferred from the EU based on an adequacy decision, 

                                                           
9 Directive No. 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. 
10 The EDPB notes that according to the draft adequacy decision this Cabinet Decision was adopted on 12 June 
2018. However, the EDPB was only provided with the draft version of the Cabinet Decision, dated April 2018.  
11 Cabinet Decision of April 25th, 2018. 
12 See section 1.3.4 below for more information.  

8 

 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

hereafter  “Supplementary  Rules”13.  These  Supplementary  Rules  are  also  annexed  to  the  draft 
implementing Commission decision published in July 2018.  

It is important to note that the Supplementary Rules are only applicable to personal data transferred 
from the European Union to Japan on the basis of the adequacy decision and aim at enhancing the 
applicable protection to those data. As such they do not apply to personal data of individuals in Japan 
or coming from other countries than the ones of the EEA.  

Further, the EDPB would like to draw attention to the fact that the amended APPI came into force  on 
May 30, 2017 and the PPC in its current form was established in 2016. Moreover, the Supplementary 
Rules negotiated by the PPC with the European Commission have yet to enter into force as that will 
depend on the recognition by the European Commission of Japan as a jurisdiction adequate to the one 
in the EU. 

2.2  Scope of the EDPB’s assessment 
The European Commission’s draft adequacy decision is the result of an assessment of the Japanese 
data protection rules, followed by negotiations with the Japanese authorities. The outcome of these 
negotiations is notably reflected in the two annexes attached to the draft adequacy decision: the first 
one  provides  for  additional  protections  that  Japanese  business  operators  will have  to  apply  to  the 
processing of personal data transferred from the EU, while the second one contains assurances and 
commitments from the Japanese government concerning public authorities' access to data. 

The EDPB examined the Japanese data protection framework, the Supplementary Rules negotiated by 
the European Commission and the assurances and commitments from the Japanese government. The 
EDPB is expected to provide an independent opinion on the European Commission’s findings, identify 
insufficiencies  in  the  adequacy  framework,  if  any,  and  endeavour  to  propose  alterations  or 
amendments to address these.  

38.  As  mentioned  in  the  EDPB  adequacy  referential,  “the  information  provided  by  the  European 
Commission should be exhaustive and put the EDPB in a position to make an own assessment regarding 
the level of data protection in the third country”14.  

39.  Nonetheless, the EDPB received most of the documents in English translations, referenced to in the 
draft  adequacy  decision,  which  form  an  essential  part  of  the  Japanese  legal  system.  The  EDPB, 
therefore, renders the present opinion on the basis of the analysis of available documents in English. 
The EDPB took into account the applicable data protection framework in the European Union, including 
Article  8  of  the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights  (hereinafter:  ECHR)  protecting  the  right  to 
private  and  family  life  as  well  as  Articles  7,  8  and  47  of  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  rights  of  the 
European Union (hereinafter: the Charter) respectively protecting the right to private and family life, 
the right to protection of personal data and the right to an effective remedy and fair trial. In addition 
to  the  above,  the  EDPB  considered  the  requirements  of  GDPR  as  well  as  looking  at  the  relevant 
jurisprudence.  

40. 

The objective of this exercise is to ensure that the Japanese data protection framework is essentially 
equivalent to that of the European Union. The concept of “adequate level of protection” which already 
existed under Directive 95/46, has been further developed by the CJEU. It is important to recall the 

                                                           
13  Supplementary  Rules,  Annex  I  of  the  Commission  Implementing  Decision  of  XXXX,  pursuant  to  Regulation 
2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, 
sent to the EDPB on September 2018.-   
14 WP254,  p.3. 

9 

 

standard set by the CJEU in Schrems, namely that – while the "level of protection" in the third country 
must be "essentially equivalent" to that guaranteed in the EU – "the means to which that third country 
has recourse, in this connection, for the purpose of such a level of protection may differ from those 
employed within the  [EU]"15. Therefore, the objective is not to mirror point  by point  the  European 
legislation, but to establish the essential and core requirements of the legislation under examination. 
Adequacy can be achieved through a combination of rights for the data subjects and obligations on 
those who process data, or who exercise control over such processing and supervision by independent 
bodies.  However,  data  protection  rules  are  only  effective,  if  they  are  enforceable  and  followed  in 
practice. It is therefore necessary to consider not only the content of rules applicable to personal data 
transferred to a third country or an international organization, but also the system in place to ensure 
the effectiveness of such rules. Efficient enforcement mechanisms are of paramount importance to 
the effectiveness of data protection rules16. 

2.3  General comments and concerns 
2.3.1  Specificities of this type of adequacy decision 
The EU-Japan adequacy is the first one to be examined against the new legal backcloth of GDPR. This 
renders  the work of  the  EDPB all  the  more  important  in  light  of  the  effects of  this  draft  adequacy 
decision for future adequacy applications.  

The EU – Japan adequacy would also be the first mutual one. When and if the EU recognises Japan as 
providing an essentially equivalent level of protection to the one of the GDPR, Japan will also issue its 
own adequacy decision under Article 24 of the APPI, recognising the EU as offering an adequate level 
of protection under the Japanese data protection framework. Thus this envisaged Japan – EU adequacy 
is of a particular nature which the EDPB has taken into account in its assessment. As mentioned above, 
the Japanese PPC has negotiated specific, stricter rules with the European Commission, applicable only 
to personal data transferred from the EU. These stricter rules are binding and enforceable according 
to the Cabinet Decision and are to be complied with by all Personal Information Handling Business 
Operators (hereafter PIHBOs) in Japan when processing personal data coming from the EU under this 
draft adequacy decision.   

The European Commission has therefore based its adequacy finding not only on the existing general 
Japanese  data  protection  framework  but  also  on  these  specific  rules.  The  fact  that  Supplementary 
Rules were required to complement the APPI is indicative of the fact that the European Commission 
acknowledges that the Japanese data protection legislation is not, per se, essentially equivalent to the 
GDPR.  

In light of the above-mentioned issues, the EDPB invites the European Commission to ensure that 
this new architecture of adequacy, the first to be adopted under the GDPR, relying on Supplementary 
Rules,  will  be  a  sustainable  and  reliable  system  that  will  not  raise  practical  issues  regarding  the 
concrete and efficient compliance by Japanese entities and enforcement by the PPC. 

2.3.2  Certainty of translations 
Like the European Commission, the EDPB has worked on the basis of English translations provided by 
the Japanese authorities17. The EDPB calls the European Commission to clarify that it has based its draft 
adequacy decision on the English translations received and verify the quality and certainty of these 
translations regularly.   

                                                           
15 Case C‑  362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, 6 October 2015 (§§ 73, 74). 
16 WP254, p.2. 
17 The European Commission has verified these translations.  

10 

 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

 

46. 

2.3.3  Sectorial Adequacy 
The  adequacy  finding  of  this  draft  adequacy  decision  is  limited  to  the  protection  of  personal 
information by PIHBOs within the meaning of the APPI. This means that the adequacy is sectorial as it 
only applies to the private sector, excluding from its scope transfers of personal data between public 
authorities and bodies. Currently, the  European Commission briefly mentions this specificity of the 
scope of the adequacy in recital 10 of the draft adequacy decision.  

47. 

The  EDPB  invites  the  European  Commission  to  explicitly  mention  the  sectorial  nature  of  this 
adequacy finding in the title of the implementing decision as well as in its Article 1 in accordance 
with Article 45 (3) GDPR.   

2.3.4  Binding nature of Supplementary Rules and of PPC Guidelines 

48.  Article 6 of the APPI mentions that “the government shall…take necessary legislative and other action 
so as to be able to take discreet action for protecting personal information that especially requires 
ensuring the strict implementation of its proper handling in order to seek enhanced protection of an 
individual’s rights and interests, and shall take necessary action in collaboration with the governments 
in other countries to construct an internationally conformable system concerning personal information 
through fostering cooperation with an international organization and other international framework.”  
Although the government is clearly identified in this Article of the APPI as competent to take such legal 
action, it does not refer directly to the PPC as the competent body to adopt specific rules18.  Due to 
time constraints, the EDPB was unable to gather, review and examine existing evidence on this point.  

49. 

In  light  of  the  importance  of  this  issue,  the  EDPB  takes  note  of  the  repeated  commitments  and 
reassurances of the European Commission and of the Japanese authorities regarding the binding and 
enforceable  nature  of  the  Supplementary  Rules.  The  EDPB  invites  the  European  Commission  to 
continuously monitor their binding nature and effective application in Japan as their legal value is 
an essential element of the EU – Japan adequacy. 

50.  Moreover,  the  European  Commission  makes  reference  in  several  sections  of  its  draft  adequacy 

decision to the PPC Guidelines (Guidelines).  

51.  Although  the  European  Commission  clarifies  that  the  Guidelines  provide  an  authoritative 
interpretation  of  the  APPI  in  recital  16  of  its  draft  adequacy  decision,  in  the  same  recital  it  makes 
reference to the binding nature of these Guidelines: “According to the information received from the 
PPC, those Guidelines are considered as binding rules that form an integral part of the legal framework, 
to  be  read  together  with  the  text of the  APPI,  the  Cabinet  Order,  the  PPC  Rules  and  a  set  of  Q&A 
prepared by PPC.”19 

52.  However, the understanding of the EDPB, based on the same information provided by the PPC, is that 
the Guidelines are not legally binding. Rather, they provide an ‘authoritative interpretation’ of the law. 
The PPC argues that the Guidelines are followed by PIHBOs in practice, used by the PPC for enforcing 

                                                           
18 According to an article published in July 2018, when the Supplementary Rules were in a draft, the legal binding 
nature of these Rules was likely to be the object of internal debate in the country. See Fujiwara S., Comparison 
between the EU and Japan’s Data Protection Legal Frameworks’, Jurist, vol. 1521 (July 2018): p. 19. 
19 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and 
the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 2018, 
Recital 16. 

11 

 

the law against PIHBOs and used by courts when rendering their judgment. However, these elements 
do not constitute sufficient evidence that the Guidelines are legally binding norms.   

53. 

The EDPB would welcome clarifications in the  adequacy decision in relation to the binding nature 
of the PPC Guidelines and asks the European Commission to attentively monitor this aspect. 

54.  According to the PPC, the Guidelines are followed in practice nevertheless as it is local custom. The 
PPC  mentions  that  the  Japanese  courts  use  the  PPC  Guidelines  to  render  their  judgments  when 
applying APPI rules. The European Commission makes reference to a court ruling20 dating from 2006 
to provide evidence that the Japanese courts base themselves on guidelines for their findings. Despite 
the  fact  that  the  EDPB  was  not  provided  with  this  court  ruling,  the  EDPB  would  appreciate  if  the 
European Commission could provide, if available, a more recent court ruling, either in the field of data 
protection  or  in  another  sector  where  the  Japanese  courts  have  used  the  PPC  Guidelines  or  other 
similar guidelines as a basis of their decision.  

2.3.5  Periodic review of the adequacy finding 

55.  Article 45 (3) of the GDPR provides that a periodic review must take place at least every four years. 
According to the EDPB adequacy referential21, this is a general time frame which must be adjusted to 
each  third  country  or  international  organization  with  an  adequacy  decision.  Depending  on  the 
particular circumstances at hand, a shorter review cycle could be warranted. Also, incidents or other 
information about or changes in the legal framework in the third country or international organization 
in question might trigger the need for a review ahead of schedule. It also appears to be appropriate to 
have a first review of an entirely new adequacy decision rather soon and gradually adjust the review 
cycle depending on the outcome. 

56. 

Taking into account a number of factors, including the fact that the APPI entered into force in 2017, 
that the PPC was established in 2016 and that there is no information nor evidence on the practical 
application of the Supplementary Rules yet, the EDPB invites the European Commission to conduct a 
review of this adequacy finding (at least) every two years and not every four years as suggested in 
the current draft adequacy decision.   

2.3.6 

International commitments entered into by Japan 

57.  According to Article 45 (2) (c) of the GDPR and the adequacy referential22, when assessing the adequacy 
of the level of protection of a third country, the European Commission shall take into account, among 
others, the international commitments the third country has entered into, or other obligations arising 
from the third country's participation in multilateral or regional systems in particular in relation to the 
protection of personal data, as well as the implementation of such obligations. Furthermore the third 
country's  accession  to  the  Council  of  Europe  Convention  of  28  January  1981  for  the  Protection  of 
Individuals  with  regard  to the  Automatic  Processing  of  Personal  Data (“Convention  108+”23  and  its 
Additional Protocol should be taken into account. 

58. 

In this regard, the EDPB notes that Japan is an observer of the Consultative Committee of Convention 
108+.   

                                                           
20 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and 
the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 2018, 
page 5, footnote 16, “Osaka District Court, decision of 19 May 2006, Hanrei Jiho, Vol. 1948, p. 122. 
21 WP254, p.3. 
22 WP254, p.2. 
23 Convention for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, Convention 108+, 
18 May 2018. 

12 

 

2.3.7  Powers of DPAs24 to bring actions concerning the validity of an adequacy decision 

before a court 

59. 

The  EDPB  underlines  that although  recital 179 of  the  draft  adequacy  decision only  mentions  cases 
where a DPA has received a complaint questioning the compatibility of an adequacy decision with the 
fundamental rights of the individual to privacy and data protection, this statement is to be understood 
as an example of situations, where a DPA can bring the matter before a national court, which could 
also be possible in the absence of a complaint, rather than as a restriction to the powers provided to 
DPAs under the GDPR and national laws of the Member States in this regard. Indeed, the provisions of 
the GDPR include both the power to suspend data transfers even when based on an adequacy decision 
and to bring an action concerning the validity of an adequacy decision, are not limited to cases where 
they have received a complaint, should their national law grant them the power to do so more broadly 
and independently from a complaint, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the GDPR.  

60. 

The EDPB invites the European Commission to clarify in its draft adequacy decision that the power 
of supervisory authorities to bring an action against the validity of an adequacy decision following a 
complaint  is  just  an  illustration  of  the  broader  powers  of  DPAs  following  from  the  GDPR,  which 
include the power to suspend transfers and to bring an action concerning the validity of an adequacy 
decision in the absence of a complaint should their national law provide it.   

3  COMMERCIAL ASPECTS 

3.1  Content principles 

61.  Chapter 3 of the Adequacy Referential is dedicated to the “Content Principles”. A third country’s or 
international  organisation’s  system  must  contain  them  in  order  to  regard  the  level  of  protection 
provided as essentially equivalent to the one guaranteed by EU legislation. The EDPB acknowledges 
the fact that the Japanese legal system pursues a different approach to that of the GDPR in order to 
give  effect  to  the  right  to  privacy.  Although  the  right  to  privacy  is  not  enshrined  in  the  Japanese 
Constitution per se, it has been recognised as a constitutional right via case law as also referenced in 
the European Commission’s decision25.  

62. 

Especially due to the fact that the Japanese approach noticeably differs from the European one, it has 
to  be  observed  carefully  whether,  not  only  single  aspects,  but  the  system  as  a  whole  ultimately 
provides  an  “essentially  equivalent”  level  of  protection.  This  means,  that  potential  “shortcomings” 
concerning one content principle might be compensated by some other aspects providing adequate 
checks and balances. 

3.1.1  Concepts 

63.  Based on the adequacy referential, basic data protection concepts and/or principles should exist in the 
third country’s legal framework. Although these do not have to mirror the GDPR terminology, they 
should reflect and be consistent with the concepts enshrined in the European data protection law. For 
example,  the  GDPR  includes  the  following  important  concepts:  “personal  data”,  “processing  of 
personal data”, “data controller”, “data processor”, “recipient” and “sensitive data”26.  

                                                           
24 Case C‑  362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, 6 October 2015. 
25  The  EDPB  has  not  been  provided  with  the  English  translation  of  this  Court  decision.  See  Commission 
Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council 
on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 2018, footnote 9  
26 WP254, p.4. 

13 

 

64. 

The APPI also includes a number of definitions such as, among others, those of “personal information”, 
“personal data”, “personal information handling business operator”. However, it seems that the APPI 
does not include a definition of the term “handling of personal data” which is similar to the term 
“processing of personal data”.  

65.  Regarding the definition of the term “handling of personal data”, the PPC provided written answers to 
the  EDPB’s  question  on  this  definition.  The  European  Commission  quoted  this  answer  to  the  draft 
Commission decision “While the APPI does not use the term “processing”, it relies on the equivalent 
concept  of  “handling”  which,  according  to  the  information  received  by the PPC,  covers  “any  act  on 
personal  data” 
storage, 
editing/processing,  renewal,  output,  reassure,  output,  utilization,  or  provision  of  personal 
information.”27 

input,  accumulation,  organisation, 

the  acquisition, 

including 

66.  However, since the text of reference for this definition has not been provided, the EDPB invites the 
European  Commission  to  closely  monitor  that  the  definition  of  the  abovementioned  concept,  as 
provided by the PPC, is effectively followed in practice.  

3.1.1.1  Concept of data processor and obligations of a “trustee” 

67.  As mentioned above, the adequacy referential requires that basic data protection concepts and/or 

principles should exist in the third country’s legal framework.  

68. 

The APPI includes a definition of a “personal information handling business operator” which according 
to the European Commission comprises both the terms of a data controller and a data processor as 
provided by the GDPR and does not distinguish between the two28. However, the APPI also includes a 
term “trustee” in its Article 22, which in some ways resembles the term of a data processor under the 
GDPR.  

69.  As  explained  by  the  PPC  in  its  answers  provided  to  the  EDPB,  and  also  included  in  the  European 
Commission’s draft adequacy decision, a trustee is considered as the equivalent of a data processor 
under the GDPR – entrusted with the handling of personal data by a PIHBO. This trustee has the same 
obligations and rights as any PIHBO, including the ones of the Supplementary Rules for personal data 
transferred from the EU. The PIHBO that entrusts the handling of personal data to a trustee is bound 
to “exercise necessary and appropriate supervision”29 over the trustee.  

70. 

 The EDPB invites the European Commission to explain the trustee’s status and obligations when the 
trustee  changes  the  purposes  and  means  of  processing  and  clarify  whether  the  data  subject’s 
consent remains a necessary condition for such change of purpose or determination of means30. 

                                                           
27 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and 
the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 2018, 
recital 17. 
28 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and 
the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 2018, 
recital 35. 
29 Article 22 of the Amended Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI), put into effect on May 30, 
2017. 
30 Art. 23 para 5 (i) APPI. See also section on the transparency principle below.  

14 

 

3.1.1.2  Concept of retained personal data 

71. 

The APPI contains the concept of “retained personal data” which is considered to be a sub-category of 
personal data. According to the APPI, the provisions relating to the data subject’s rights31only apply to 
retained personal data.  The definition of retained personal data is included in Article 2(7) of the APPI.  

72.  Retained personal data are the personal data  other than those that (i) are set to be deleted within a 
period of no longer than 6 months32 or that (ii) fall under the exceptions of Article 4 of the Cabinet 
Order and that are likely to harm the public or other interests if their presence or absence is made 
known.  

73. 

The Supplementary Rule (2) provides that “personal data received from the EU based on an adequacy 
decision is required to be handled as retained personal data irrespective of the period within which it is 
set to be deleted.” 

74.  However,  personal  data  falling  under  the  exceptions  of  Article  4  of  the  Cabinet  Order  will  not  be 

required to be handled as retained personal data and that data subject rights will not apply.  

75.  Article 23 of the GDPR provides that, like Article 4 of the Cabinet Order, Union or Member State law 
to which the data controller/processor is subject to, may restrict the scope of the obligations applicable 
to him and the rights available to the data subject. This can be done by way of a legislative measure. 
These  restrictions  need  to  respect  the  essence  of  the  fundamental  right  and  freedoms  and  is  a 
necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society.  

76.  Regarding the substance of the exceptions provided for in Article 4 of the Cabinet Order, the EDPB has 
not been provided with sufficient documentation on these limitations or additional elements to clarify 
the scope of these provisions33. The EDPB is not in a position to assess whether these limitations to the 
rights of data subjects are limited to what would be considered strictly necessary and proportionate 
under EU law, and would thus be essentially equivalent to the rights provided to the EU data subjects. 

77.  Due  to  lack  of  some  relevant  documents,  the  EDPB  would  also  welcome  reassurances  by  the 
European  Commission,  if  restrictions  to  the  rights  of  individuals  (in  particular,  rights  of  access, 
rectification and objection) are necessary and proportionate in a democratic society and respect the 
essence of fundamental rights.  

78.  An essential requirement under the GDPR is that personal data are protected throughout their whole 

“life cycle”.  

79. 

80. 

Taking into account the fact that the Supplementary Rules only apply to personal data transferred from 
the EU, the EDPB would appreciate receiving further information about the practical implementation 
of these rules by PIHBOs, especially when these data are further communicated to another PIHBO after 
their first transmission to Japan.  

The  European  Commission  has  clarified  in  recital  15  of  its  draft  adequacy  decision  that  PIHBOs 
receiving  and/or  further  processing  personal  data  from  the  EU  will  be  under  a  legal  obligation  to 
comply with the Supplementary Rules and that in order to do so they will need to ensure that they can 
identify such personal data throughout their “life-cycle”.  

                                                           
31 Articles 27-30 of the APPI.  
32 Amendment to the Cabinet Order to Enforce the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (Cabinet Order), 
put into effect May 30, 2017,  Article 5.  
33  The  EDPB  has  not  been  provided  with  the  Supreme  Court  decisions  referred  to  in  recital  53  of  the  draft 
adequacy decision.  

15 

 

81. 

82. 

In its answers, The PPC34has explained that such identification will be made by using technical methods 
(tagging) or organisational methods (storing the data originating from the EU in a dedicated database).  

In footnote 14 of its draft adequacy decision, the European Commission explains that PIHBOs must 
record the information on the origin of the EU data for as long as necessary in order to be able to 
comply with the Supplementary Rules. This is also enshrined in Article 26 (1), (3) and (4) of the APPI 
which states that a PIHBO is under the obligation to confirm and record the source of these data and 
all the circumstances surrounding the acquisition of these data. 

83.  However, the EDPB notes that Article 18 of the PPC Rules35 specifies that the record keeping obligations 
of PIHBOs are limited to a maximum of three years for cases that fall outside the specific record keeping 
methods described in Article 16 of the PPC Rules (using a written document, electromagnetic record 
or  microfilm).  This  is  also  stated  by  the  European  Commission  in  recital  71  of  its  draft  adequacy 
decision: “As specified in Article 18 of the PPC Rules, those records must be preserved for a period of 
one to three years, depending on the circumstances”.  

84. 

Even if, as the European Commission states in footnote 14 of its draft adequacy decision, PIHBOs are 
not prohibited to keep records regarding the origin of the data for longer than three years, in order to 
be able to fulfil their obligations under Supplementary Rule (2), this is neither clearly reflected in the 
Japanese  legislation  nor  in  the  Supplementary  Rules.  The  EDPB  considers  that  there  is  a  risk  that 
PIHBOs will in fact comply with Article 18 of the PPC Rules even when they process data originating 
from the EU. This is mainly because there is currently, to the understanding of the EDPB and based on 
available  documents,  no  provision  putting  PIHBOs  under  such  an  obligation  to  comply  with  the 
Supplementary Rules instead. This would result in data transferred from the EU to no longer being 
protected by the additional protections included in the Supplementary Rules.  

85. 

The EDPB invites the European Commission to closely monitor the effective protection of personal 
data transferred from the EU to Japan based on the draft adequacy decision, throughout their whole 
life-cycle even though the Japanese legislation imposes a record keeping obligation of the origin of 
the data for a maximum of three years. 

3.1.2  Grounds for lawful and fair processing for legitimate purposes 

86.  According to the adequacy referential, in line with the GDPR, data must be processed in a lawful, fair 
and  legitimate  manner36.  The  legal  basis,  under  which  personal  data  may  be  lawfully,  fairly  and 
legitimately  processed,  should  be  set  out  in  a  sufficiently  clear  manner.  The  European  framework 
acknowledges several such legitimate grounds including, for example, provisions in national law, the 
consent of the data subject, performance of a contract or legitimate interest of the data controller or 
of a third party which does not override the interests of the individual.  

87.  Under the APPI, consent plays a central role in the Japanese data protection legal system. Consent is 
the central legal basis for the processing of personal data in Japan, and also one of the main legal basis 
for transfers of personal data from Japan to a third country. In addition, consent is required for an 
alteration of the purpose of the processing.  

88.  According to Supplementary Rule (3), the legal basis for the processing of personal data transferred 
from the EU to Japan will be the legal basis for which the data is transferred to Japan. If the PIHBO 

                                                           
34 Annex III of the present Opinion.  
35 Enforcement Rules for the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (PPC Rules), put into effect May 30, 
2017, Article 16. 
36 WP254, p.4. 

16 

 

wishes to process further these data for a different purpose he needs to obtain the consent of the data 
subject in advance.  

89. 

The EDPB considers that the quality of consent, especially due to its central role in the Japanese legal 
framework, has to comply with the fundamental requirements of the notion of consent, i.e. according 
to  EU  law,  a  “freely  given,  specific,  informed  and  unambiguous  indication  of  the  data  subject’s 
wishes…”. The data subject can withdraw such consent as an essential safeguard to ensure the free 
will of the data subject throughout the time37. The right to withdrawal, as a mandatory element of 
consent,  appears  to  be  missing  in  the  Japanese  legal  framework.  Indeed,  according  to  the  PPC 
guidelines38 the withdrawal is merely “desirable” and conditional to the “characteristics, size and the 
status of the business activities”. 

3.1.3  The transparency principle 

90.  Based on Article  5 of the GDPR,  transparency is a fundamental principle of the EU data protection 
system39. The adequacy referential explicitly names “transparency” as one of the content principles to 
be taken into account when evaluating the essentially equivalent level of protection provided for by a 
third  country.  The  transparency  and  fairness  principle  strives  to  ensure  that  the  data  subject  has 
control over his/her data and, for this purpose, information shall be provided to the data subject in a 
proactive manner as a rule. In the case of the Privacy Shield, the Article 29 Working Party40 in their 
opinion  1/2016  made  reference  to  Annex  II,  II  1  b  of  the  Privacy  Shield  agreement  (notice  to  the 
individual) and stated that, if the data is not collected directly, an organisation should notify the data 
subject  “at  the  point  the  data  is  recorded  by  the  Shield  organisation”  (section  2.2.1.a).  Having  the 
privacy policy publicly available is an additional criterion (see section 2.2.1.b). Hence, already under 
Directive 95/46/EC it was deemed necessary to directly inform the data subject. 

91.  A first concern is raised regarding the modality of information provided to the data subject under the 
APPI. According to Article 27 (1) of the APPI, a PIHBO is obliged to provide the information described 
in Article 27 (1) APPI by putting it “into a state where a principal can know”. However, this wording 
does not make  clear to what extent the PIHBO has to take positive measures to genuinely inform the 
data subject.  

92. 

The EDPB invites the Commission to clarify the meaning of the term “can know” and whether the 
APPI provides as a rule the obligation to genuinely inform data subjects.   

93.  Moreover, according to the adequacy referential, restrictions to the information to be provided to the 
data subject may exist, similar to Article 23 GDPR. On a similar vein, Article 14 (5) of the GDPR provides 
for an exception to the right to be informed when the information is likely to render impossible or 
seriously impair the achievement of the processing. However, even in this case, the controller shall 
provide  some  sort  of  information  as,  for  instance,  by  making  “generalised”  information  publicly 

                                                           
37 GDPR, Article 4(11). For more information see also relevant guidelines of the EDPB on consent WP259, 10 April 
2018.  
38 Data Protection Legal and Technical Research and Analysis Consortium (DPC), An assessment of the level of 
protection of personal data provided under Japanese law, p. 46: "Further, from the viewpoint of protection of 
rights and interests of a principal such as consumers, it is desirable, in case of having received a demand from a 
principal for the retained personal data, to further respond to the principal’s demand in such a way as stopping 
etc. of direct-mail sending or voluntarily fulfilling a utilisation cease etc. considering the characteristics, size and 
the status of the business activities”. 
39 WP 254, chapter 3, point 7, p. 5; see also recital (39) GDPR. 
40 This Working Party was set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It was an independent European advisory 
body on data protection and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 15 of 
Directive 2002/58/EC. The WP29 has now become the EDPB.  

17 

 

available. Moreover, when the risk ceases to exist the data subject shall be notified41. These aspects 
are important in order to ensure the fundamental principle of fairness.  

94.  Under Article 23 of the APPI, a PIHBO generally has to give in advance information to the data subject 
about  providing  his/her  data  to  a  third  party  either  implicitly  when  obtaining  his/her  consent  or 
explicitly by an opt-out notification. The EDPB understands that there is no notification to the data 
subject, informing him/her of the fact that his/her data are not retained personal data under the APPI 
because falling under the exceptions of Article 4 of the Cabinet Order. As a result, they will not be able 
to benefit from their rights in full. The data subjects are not informed in the cases of Article 18(4) APPI 
either.  

95. 

The EDPB acknowledges that the rights may be restricted for legitimate objectives pursued by the 
PIHBO and the state authorities. At the same time, the EDPB considers that there should be at least 
a general information upfront  on the possibility of the restriction of the rights for the objectives 
referred  to  the  law  and  that  the  data  subject  should  be  notified  when  the  risks  for  which  the 
information is restricted cease to exist.  

96. 

Finally, other aspects of transparency are developed further below. These refer to the risks the transfer 
to a third country entails42 and the information on the logic of processing in the context of automated 
decision making, including profiling.43 

97. 

3.1.4  Restrictions on onward transfers 
The EDPB welcomes the efforts made by the Japanese authorities and the European Commission to 
enhance the level of protection for onward transfers in Supplementary Rule (4), which excludes that 
personal data transferred from the EU is further transferred to a third country on the basis of APEC-
CBPRs. In addition, the EDPB recognises that in in recitals 177 and 184 of its new draft of the adequacy 
decision, the European Commission committed itself to suspend the adequacy decision when onward 
transfers no longer ensure the continuity of protection. However, the EDPB would like to raise two 
points regarding these transfers of EU personal data from Japan to third countries.  

98. 

The use of consent as a basis for data transfers from Japan to a third country in the Japanese legal 
system raises concerns as the EDPB considers that the information given to the EU data subject prior 
to consenting seems not to be comprehensive.  

99.  Article 24 APPI prohibits the transfer of personal data to a third party outside the territory of Japan 
without the prior consent of the individual concerned. Supplementary Rule (4) stipulates that EU data 
subjects  have  to  be  provided  with  information  on  the  circumstances  surrounding  the  transfer 
necessary to make a decision on his/her consent. 

100.  The  European  Commission  concludes  in  its  draft  adequacy  decision  that  Supplementary  Rule  (4) 
secures a particular well informed consent of the EU data subject44 as he/she will be advised of the 
fact that the data will be transferred abroad and of the specific country of destination. This would allow 
the data subject to assess the risk for privacy involved with the transfer. 

                                                           
41 Tele2, Joined Cases C 203/15 and C 698/15, judgement of the Court, 21 December 2016, rec. 121 and Digital 
Rights Ireland, Joined Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, judgement of the Court, 8 April 2014, rec. 54-62. 
42 See section 2.1.4.  
43 See section 2.1.6. 
44 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and 
the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, Recital 
76. 

18 

 

101.  Under  the  transparency  principle  of  the  adequacy  referential,  a  certain  degree  of  fairness  shall  be 
ensured when informing individuals. In the context of onward transfers based on consent, the EDPB is 
of  the  opinion  that  to  ensure  such  adequate  degree  of  fairness  data  subjects  should  be  explicitly 
informed about the possible risks of such transfers arising from the absence of adequate protection in 
the  third  country  and  the  absence  of  appropriate  safeguards  prior  to  consent.  Such  notice  should 
include for example information that in the third country there might not be a supervisory authority 
and/or data processing principles  and/or data subject  rights might  not  be provided for in the third 
country45. For the EDPB the provision of this information is essential in order to enable the data subject 
to consent with full knowledge of these specific facts of the transfer46.  

102.  Informed consent is also important regarding sectorial exclusions.  The adequacy decision does not 
cover certain types of processing by certain bodies such as universities for the processing of personal 
data for academic purposes. The EDPB’s concern here relates to the specific scenario of when data 
transferred from the EU under the adequacy decision – for example the HR data of Erasmus students 
in Japan – are then used for a different purpose falling out of the scope of the adequacy decision (e.g. 
research purposes), with the consent of the data subject, - and are therefore no longer covered by the 
additional protection provided by the Supplementary Rules.  

103.  The European Commission states in recital 38 of its draft adequacy decision that such a scenario will 
fall under the context of onward transfers and that, where this takes place, the PIHBO has to provide 
the data subject with all the necessary information before obtaining his/her consent, including that 
the personal information would not fall under the protection of the APPI rules.  

104.  Supplementary Rule (4) only requires the PIHBO to obtain the data subject’s consent after having been 
provided with information on the circumstances surrounding the transfer necessary for the principal 
to make a decision on his/her consent. 

105.  The EDPB invites the European Commission to ensure that the information to be provided to the 
data subject “on the circumstances surrounding the transfer” should include the information about 
the possible risks of transfers arising from the absence of adequate protection in the third country 
and the absence of appropriate safeguards, or in the case of sectorial exclusions, of the absence of 
protections of the Supplementary Rules and of the APPI.  

106.  Onward transfers of personal data may occur to third countries, which become subject to a possible 

later Japanese adequacy decision.  

107.  Without prejudice to the derogations set forth in Article 23 para 1 of the APPI, data initially transferred 
from the EU to Japan can be then transferred from Japan to a third country without consent in two 
cases: 

 

If the PIHBO and the third party recipient have together implemented measures providing a 
level  of  protection  equivalent  to  the  APPI  read  together  with  the  Supplementary  Rules  by 
means  of  a  contract,  other  forms  of  binding  agreements  or  binding  agreements  within  a 
corporate group47. 

                                                           
45 EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, 25 May 2018, p.8. 
46 EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, 25 May 2018, p.7. 
47 Supplementary Rule (4) (ii). 

 

19 

 

If the third country has been recognised by the PPC under Article 24 of the APPI and Article 11 
of  the  PPC  Rules48  as  providing  an  equivalent  level  of  protection  to  the  one  guaranteed  in 
Japan. 

108.  The EDPB evaluates Article 24 APPI as the more specific rule, which contains a derogation from the 
general rule under Article 23 APPI. Therefore, the EDPB does not share the European Commission’s 
assessment in the new last sentence of Recital 78 of the draft adequacy decision stating that even in 
those cases, the transfer to the third party remains subject to the requirement to obtain consent under 
Article 23 (1) of the APPI.  

109.  Pursuant  to  Article  11  (1)  of  the  PPC  Rules,  an  adequacy  decision  by  the  PPC  requires  substantive 
standards equivalent to the APPI whose implementation are ensured in the third country and which 
are effectively supervised by an independent enforcement authority. Moreover, the PPC may impose 
necessary conditions to protect the rights and interests of individuals in Japan, according to Article 11 
(2) of the PPC Rules. 

110.  Supplementary Rule (4) states that EU personal data can be transferred to a third country subject to a 
Japanese adequacy decision without further restrictions. But Article 44 of the GDPR regulates that any 
transfer of personal data to a third country has to fulfil the conditions laid down in Chapter V of the 
GDPR  including  onward  transfers  from  the  third  country  to  another  third  country.  The  level  of 
protection  of  natural  persons  whose  data  is  transferred  must  not  be  undermined  by  the  onward 
transfer49. Although this interpretation is in principle also shared by the European Commission in its 
draft adequacy decision50, it seems  not  to be  completely followed. The European Commission has 
negotiated the prohibition of data originating from the EU being transferred to a third country on the 
basis of Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) – Cross Border Privacy Rules (CBPRs). In the light of 
the comparative tool developed in 2014 under the framework of the EU Directive between BCR and 
CBPR showing the requirements of both systems, their convergences and differences (WP29 Opinion 
02/2014), the EDPB has concerns about the use of CBPRs as an onward transfer tool for personal data 
transferred from the EU to countries outside of Japan.  

111.  In  contrast,  onward  transfers  of  personal  data  transferred  from  the  EU  to  Japan  on  the  basis  of  a 
Japanese  adequacy  decision,  seem  to  be  accepted  by  the  European  Commission,  without  the 
possibility  for  the  PPC  to  impose  the  Supplementary  Rules  as  conditions  to  protect  the  rights  and 
interests  of  EU  individuals,  if  necessary.  The  EDPB  deduces  from  Article  44  of  the  GDPR  that  the 
enhanced protection of data being transferred from the EU to Japan foreseen in the Supplementary 
Rules  has  always  to  be  extended  when    personal  data  transferred  from  the  EU  to  Japan  is  further 
transferred to a third country, if the data protection framework in that country is not recognised as 
essentially equivalent to the GDPR.   

112.  Hence, the EDPB invites the European Commission to take over its monitoring role and to ensure the 
level of protection of EU data is maintained or to consider suspension of this adequacy decision if 
personal data transferred from the EU to Japan is further transferred to third countries subject to a 

                                                           
48 Enforcement Rules for the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, 30 May 2017. An English translation 
of  the  new  Article  11  was  communicated  by  the  EU  Commission  to  the  EDPB,  but  this  Article  has  not  been 
published yet. 
49 WP 254, p.5. 
50 Commission Implementing Decision of XXXX, pursuant to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament 
and the Council on the adequate protection of personal data by Japan, as sent to the EDPB on November 13, 
Recital 75. 

20 

 

possible later Japanese adequacy decision, when these third countries have not been subject of a 
previous assessment or adequacy finding of the EU. 

3.1.5  Direct marketing 

113.  According to Supplementary Rule (3), a PIHBO is prohibited from processing the data for the purpose 
of direct marketing if it has been transferred from the European Union for another purpose and the 
EU data subject has not given his or her consent to the change of the utilisation purpose. 

114.  According to the Adequacy referential where data are processed for the purposes of direct marketing, 
the data subject should be able to object without any charge from having his/her data processed for 
such purposes at any time. According to Article 16 of the APPI, a PIHBO is only allowed to  process 
personal information if the  data  subject  gives  his or her consent. The withdrawal of consent could 
provide the same result as the privileged right to object to direct marketing.  

115.  The  Japanese  data  protection  framework  does  not  provide  a  privileged  right  of  objection  and  as 
explained above in the section on consent, withdrawal of consent under the PPC Guidelines is merely 
desirable and conditional and can therefore not be considered to equate to a right to object at any 
time as requested under  the  Adequacy referential. The EDPB invites the European Commission to 
provide reassurances about the right to withdrawal of consent and to monitor cases regarding direct 
marketing. 

3.1.6  Automated decision making and profiling 

116.  According to the adequacy referential, decisions based solely on automated processing (automated 
individual decision-making), including profiling, which produce legal effects or significantly affect the 
data  subject,  can  take  place  only  under  certain  conditions  established  in  the  third  country  legal 
framework. Therefore, every time automated decision making and profiling under the aforementioned 
circumstances is conducted, there has to be a legal ground for this.  

117.  In the European framework, the conditions for automated decision making include, for example, the 
need to obtain the explicit consent51 of the data subject or the necessity of such a decision for the 
conclusion of a contract. If the decision does not comply with such conditions as laid down in the third 
country legal framework, the data subject should have the right not to be subject to it. Furthermore, 
the law of the third country should, in any case, provide for necessary safeguards, including the right 
to be informed about the specific reasons underlying the decision and the logic involved to correct 
inaccurate or incomplete information and to contest the decision where it has been adopted on an 
incorrect factual basis. 

118.  The Commission decision only refers to banking sector where sectoral rules52  regarding automated 
decisions would apply. The Comprehensive Guidelines for Supervision over Major Banks mentioned in 
recital 93 of the draft adequacy decision indicate that the concerned individual has to be provided with 
specific explanations on the reasons for the rejection of a request to conclude a loan agreement.  

119.  The argumentations of the European Commission referring to the draft adequacy decision (Recital 94), 
that the absence of specific rules on automated decision making in the APPI is unlikely to affect the 
level of protection seems (for instance) do not to take into account the case in which an EU-transferred 

                                                           
51 For critical remarks to the concept of consent in the Japanese data protection legal framework see: 2.1. General 
and 2.2.8. Direct marketing. 

52 These Sectoral Rules were not provided to the EDPB.   

 

 

21 

personal  data  is  subsequently  processed  by  another  Japanese  data  controller  (different  from  the 
original Japanese data importer).   

120.  It  appears  therefore,  that  there  are  no  general  rules  applicable  across  sectors  in  Japan  governing 

automated decision making and profiling.  

121.  The EDPB invites the European Commission to monitor cases related to automated decision making 

and profiling.  

3.2 

 Procedural and enforcement mechanisms 

122.  Based on the criteria set in the adequacy referential, the EDPB has analysed the following aspects of 
the Japanese data protection and legal framework as covered under the draft adequacy decision: the 
existence and effective functioning of an independent supervisory authority; the existence of a system 
ensuring  a  good  level  of  compliance  and  a  system  of  access  to  appropriate  redress  mechanisms 
equipping EU individuals with the means to exercise their rights and seek redress without encountering 
cumbersome barriers to administrative and judicial redress.  

123.  Building on the parameters established by the CJEU in the Schrems case53 and those outlined in recital 
104 and Article 45 of the GDPR, the EDPB finds that, although a system consistent with the European 
one exists in Japan, this system may be difficult to access in practice for EU individuals, whose data will 
be  transferred  under  this  adequacy  decision  in  light  of  the  existence  of  language  and  institutional 
barriers.  

124.  The  sections  below  will  examine  the  above  mentioned  aspects  of  the  Japanese  framework  before 

highlighting some recommendations for the Commission. 

3.2.1  Competent independent Supervisory Authority 

125.  The  PPC  was  established  on  the  1  January  2016  following  the  amendments  of  the  APPI  of  2015, 
replacing its predecessor – the Specific Personal Information Protection Commission (established in 
2013 under the My Number Act). Although a young organization, since its establishment, the PPC has 
put considerable efforts into building the required infrastructure to accommodate the implementation 
of  the  amended  APPI.  Noticeable  among  these  are  the  establishment  of  the  PPC’s  rules,  the  PPC 
Guidelines to give guidance to PIHBOs on the interpretation of the APPI, the publication of a PPC Q&A54 
document and the setting up of a helpline to advise business operators and citizens on data protection 
provisions as well as of a mediation service to handle complaints.  

126.  The establishment and functioning of the PPC is regulated in chapter V of the APPI. Although the PPC 
falls  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Prime  Minister,  article  62  mandates  that  the  PPC  exercises  its 
function independently. The EDPB welcomes the clarification made by the European Commission in 
the amended draft of the adequacy decision circulated on 13 November 2018 to further describe the 
degree to which the PPC is free from internal and external influences.  

3.2.2  The data protection system must ensure a good level of compliance 

127.  The draft adequacy decision undertakes a comprehensive examination of the powers that the PPC is 
equipped with under Articles 40, 41 and 42 of the APPI to ensure the monitoring and enforcement of 
the legislation. Article 40 empowers the PPC to request PIHBOs to submit reports and documentation 
relating to processing operations as well as to carry out on-site inspections. Under Article 42, the PPC 
has the power – when recognising that it is necessary to protect individual rights or where finding a 

                                                           
53 Case 362/14 (2015) Maximilian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, (para. 73 and 74).  
54 This document was not provided by the European Commission to the EDPB in English.  

 

22 

violation of the provisions of the law – to issue recommendations and, those failing, orders to PIHBOs 
to suspend the act of violation or take necessary measures to rectify the violation. 

128.  In October 2018, the PPC took one of its first actions under article 41 of the amended APPI and issued 
‘guidance’ to a PIHBO, advising the company to strengthen its’ security measures and to effectively 
supervise applications providers whilst giving clear and easy to understand explanations to users on 
how their personal information is used, and obtain consent beforehand when the information is shared 
with a third party as well as respond properly to users' request for erasure of their information. In the 
answers  provided  to  the  EDPB55,  PPC  officials  advised  that  the  company  has  announced  it  will 
cooperate  and  that,  when  the  company  fail  to  do  so,  it  will  render  the  company  with  a 
‘recommendation’ under Article 42(1) of the APPI.  

129.  The investigation conducted by the PPC on the above mentioned PIHBO is a very positive indicator of 

the Japanese supervisory authority’s efforts to ensure a good level of compliance in the country.  

130.  Although there are improvements in respect to the framework in place prior to the 2015 amendments, 
the EDPB notices that the PPC has fewer powers than European DPA under the GDPR, especially in 
relation  to  enforcement.  Administrative  fines56,  for  example,  are  quite  mild.  The  European 
Commission’s decision emphasises in recital 108 that, in cases of non-compliance or some violations 
of the APPI, criminal sanctions are in place and that the PPC Chair may forward cases to the public 
prosecutor. However, the European Commission’s decision does not account for the fact that public 
prosecution in Japan is discretional and may sometimes be subject to lengthy review processes57. In 
addition, the penalty of imprisonment (with or without labour) associated with violations of the APPI 
pursuant the provisions in Chapter VII may be difficult to execute because directed at natural persons 
and,  in  any  case,  not  punishing  the  PIHBO  as  a  legal  entity  failing  to  exercise  its  accountability 
obligations.     

131.  In light of the above, the EDPB invites the European Commission to closely monitor the effectiveness 

of sanctions and relevant remedies in the Japanese data protection system. 

3.2.3  The data protection system must provide support and help to individual data subjects 

in the exercise of their rights and appropriate redress mechanisms 

132.  The  PPC  provides  extensive  information  and  guidelines  on  its  website  aimed  at  raising  awareness 
among PIHBOs in relation to their obligations and responsibilities under the data protection framework 
as well as a Helpline to provide information and support to Japanese citizens regarding their individual 
rights under the APPI. The website has also a section, called the ‘Children’s room’, explicitly aimed at 
a children’s and young people audience. The  EDPB observes that this information  –  along with the 
Helpline support, guidance and Q&A documentations – is available in Japanese58. Therefore, the EDPB 
strongly  believes,  it  would  be  beneficial  if  the  PPC  could  provide  a  dedicated  page  on  the  English 
version of its website aimed at providing information about their individual rights under the Japanese 

                                                           
55 Annex III.  
56 These are provided in Chapter VII of the APPI. The maximum penalty is provided by art. 83 (provision or use by 
stealth of a personal information database for own or a third party’s illegal profit) and is equivalent to either a 
year’s  imprisonment  with  work  or  a  fine  not  exceeding  500,000  yen  (roughly    EUR  3900).  According  to  the 
explanations provided by the Commission, fines are cumulative per infringement. Although this may be the case, 
the EDPB observes that, even if cumulative fines are applied, the total amount is likely to remain considerably 
low compared to European standards. 
65 Oda H., Japanese Law, Oxford University Press (III edition), 2009: 439 – 440. 
58https://www.ppc.go.jp/en/contactus/piinquiry/. 

23 

 

data protection framework and under the Supplementary Rules to EU individuals whose data will be 
transferred to Japan under the European Commission’s adequacy decision.  

133.  The EDPB welcomes the clarification made by the European Commission in recital 104 of the amended 
draft adequacy decision circulated on 13 November 2018 regarding the mediation service managed by 
the  PPC  pursuant  Article  61(ii)  of  the  APPI.  However,  the  EDPB  would  like  to  raise  three  points  in 
relation  to  this.  Firstly,  the  mediation  service  is  not  publicized  on  the  English  version  of  the  PPC’s 
website. Secondly, the service is accessible only via phone and available in Japanese. Finally, mediation 
is  merely  a  facilitative  process  not  leading  to  a  binding  agreement  between  the  parties  which  has 
implications for the effectiveness of the redress options available to data subjects59.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

134.  Finally, the EDPB notices that the draft adequacy decision places emphasis on the remedies available 
through civil law action as well as criminal proceedings, but does not acknowledge the existence of 
institutional  barriers  to  litigation  in  Japan  such  as  legal  costs  (legal  fees  are  split  equally  between 
plaintiff and defendant, regardless of which party wins the proceedings60), dearth of lawyers in the 
country61, the fact that foreign lawyers are not allowed to practice domestic law as well as the burden 
of proof requirement under Tort Law. The EDPB fears that these factors may – in practice – hinder 
individuals’ access to justice and jeopardise their right to pursue legal remedies rapidly and without 
bearing prohibitive costs.  

135.  In  light  of  the  above,  the  EDPB  is  concerned  that  there  is  a  risk  that  EU  individuals  may  have 
difficulties  accessing  administrative  and  judicial  redress  and,  therefore,  would  welcome  if  the 
European Commission could discuss with the PPC the possibility of setting up an online service, at least 
in English, aimed at providing support to, and handle complaints of62, EU individuals. In addition, the 
EDPB would welcome the possibility of allowing EU DPAs to act as intermediaries for EU data subject 
complaints with organisations operating in Japan and the PPC.  

4  ON THE ACCESS BY PUBLIC AUTHORITIES TO THE DATA 

TRANSFERRED TO JAPAN 

136.  The  intention  of  the  COM  is  to  recognise,  through  the  adequacy  decision,  that  “Japan  ensures  an 
adequate  level  of  protection  for  personal  data  transferred  from  the  European  Union  to  personal 
information handling business operators in Japan”, as stated in Art. 1 of the draft adequacy decision. 
In line with Art. 45 (2) GDPR, the COM has also analysed the limitations and safeguards as regards 
access to personal data by public authorities. This chapter focuses on the assessment of the access to 
personal data by law enforcement authorities and by other government entities for the purpose of 
national security. The analysis of the EDPB is based on the  draft  adequacy decision, its  Annex II, in 
which  the  Japanese  government  provides  an  overview  of  the  relevant  legal  framework,  and  the 
Japanese legal texts, to the extent they were provided by the COM. Therefore, in the specific context 
of this assessment, the EDPB has taken into account elements concerning Japanese laws which are not 

                                                           
59 Kojima T., Civil Procedure and ADR in Japan, Chuo University Press, 2004; and Menkel-Meadow C., Dispute 
Processing and Conflict Resolution: Theory, Practice and Policy, Ashgate (2003) (ed.).  
60 Wagatsuma (2012), ‘Recent Issues of Cost and Fee Allocation in Japanese Civil Procedure’ in Reimann (ed.), 
Cost and Fee Allocation in Civil Procedure – Ius Gentium; comparative Perspectives on Law and Justice Vol. 11, 
pp. 195 – 200.  
61 According to the latest figures, the number of lawyers in Japan is 38,980 (roughly 290 layers per one million 
people [Japan Federation of Bar Association] (2017), White Paper on Attorneys: p. 8 – 9. 
62 Similar to the one envisaged in Annex II of this adequacy decision for complaints from EU residents regarding 
access to their data by Japanese public authorities. 

24 

 

part of the findings by the European Commission, but that are relevant to assess the conditions and 
safeguards under which Japanese public authorities are allowed to access personal data transferred 
from the European Union. 

4.1  Law enforcement access to data 
4.1.1  Procedures for accessing data in the field of criminal law 

137.  The draft adequacy decision presents three ways foreseen under Japanese law for law enforcement 

authorities to access data in Japan: 

4.1.1.1  Access requests with a court warrant 

138.  The draft adequacy decision states that for government access in Japan, and especially for criminal law 
enforcement  authorities  to  request  access  to  electronic  evidence  in  the  context  of  criminal 
investigations, they always need to have a warrant, unless they use the voluntary disclosure procedure 
– see below. 

4.1.1.1.1  Requirement of “adequate cause”, necessity and proportionality of the warrants 

139.  The  EDPB  acknowledges  that  under  the  Japanese  constitution  any  collection  of  personal  data  by 
compulsory means must be based on a court warrant. More specifically, the draft adequacy decision 
indicates that in all cases of “searches and seizures”, court warrants have to be issued for “adequate 
cause”, which the  Supreme  Court  considers only exists  where the  individual concerned (suspect or 
accused) is considered to have committed an offence and the search and seizure is necessary for the 
criminal investigation. The COM here references the Supreme Court judgment of 18 March 1969, case 
N. 100 (1968(Shi)).). The EDPB recalls that under the CJEU’s case law63 only a court, and not prosecutors 
for instance, can authorize the collection of traffic and location data in particular.  

140.  Also in light of the CJEU jurisprudence, according to which access to data may be subject to a warrant, 
as in Tele2, the EDPB regrets that no additional information were provided in order to assess how the 
criteria for assessing the necessity of a warrant – gravity of the offense and how it was committed ; 
value and importance of the seized materials as evidence ; probability of concealment or destruction 
of seized materials ; extent of the disadvantages caused by a seizure ; other related conditions – and 
the concept of “adequate cause” derived from the Constitution are applied in practice. Therefore, the 
EDPB invites the Commission to monitor if the issuing of warrants meets the criteria set out by the 
CJEU in practice. 

4.1.1.1.2  Types of crimes for which warrants can be issued 

141.  The warrant procedure applies only whenever a “compulsory investigation” is carried out. In principle, 
these warrants can only be issued in cases where a violation of law has occurred. In this respect, the 
EDPB  notes  the  recently  adopted  “Act  on  Punishment  of  Organized  Crimes  and  Control  of  Crime 
Proceeds” on 15 June 2017 in the context of adherence of Japan to the UN international Convention 
on Transnational Crime (UNTOC)64. In the absence of an English available version of this legislation, 
and  given  the  requirement  under  EU  law  that  some  data  are  collected  only  in  the  context  of 
investigation,  detection  or  prosecution  of  serious  crimes65,  as  well  as  given  concerns  expressed  by 
several  commentators,  including  UN  Special  Rapporteur  Joseph  Cannataci66,  concerning  the  wide 
scope of application, and which relies on a definition of “organized criminal group” reportedly vague 

                                                           
63 See cases 203/15 and C 293/12 and C 594/12 of the CJEU. 
64 See: https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/organized-crime/intro/UNTOC.html . 
65 See joint cases C 293/12 and C 594/12 and case C 203/15. 
66 UN Special rapporteur on the right to privacy, as well as Graham Greenleaf, UNSW Law Researcher. 

 

25 

and too broad, the EDPB is not in a position to conclude that access to electronic evidence under the 
relevant Japanese legislation is limited to the thresholds provided by EU law.  

142.  It has also to be noted that for some types of offences, the Prefectural Police is competent and that 
they have their specific police ordinances. The internal rules applicable to the Prefectural police were 
not available to the EDPB.  

143.  According  to  the  draft  Adequacy  decision,  the  collection  of  electronic  information  in  the  area  of 

criminal law enforcement falls under the responsibility of the Prefectural Police. 

4.1.1.2  Wiretapping warrants 

144.  Annex II of the draft adequacy indicates that the Act on Wiretapping for Criminal Investigation provides 
for specificities for the interception of communications. This legislation was provided very late which 
did  not  allow  for  an  in-depth  analysis.  Therefore,  although  many  safeguards  seem  to  be  provided 
within this legal framework, the EDPB is not in a position to assess whether the conditions provided in 
this piece of legislation are surrounded by guarantees substantially equivalent to those required in the 
EU both by the Charter as interpreted by the CJEU and by the ECHR as interpreted by the Strasbourg 
Court. 

4.1.1.3  The “voluntary disclosure” procedure based on enquiry sheet 

145.  This  non-compulsory  form  of  cooperation  allows  public  authorities  to  ask  controllers  (except 
telecommunications carriers) to provide them with data they have. Non-compliance with the request 
cannot be enforced.  It remains unclear which authorities can use this type of procedure, but it appears 
limited to those investigating crimes. 

4.1.1.3.1  Conditions to issue “enquiry sheets” 

146.  The  EDPB  acknowledges  that  the  Japanese  Supreme  Court,  by  reference  to  the  Constitution,  has 
framed limitations to the use “voluntary disclosures”67. It appears from the draft adequacy decision 
that concretely a “voluntary disclosure” may only be asked by the competent authorities through the 
issuance of an “enquiry sheet”. Sending such an “enquiry sheet” is said to be permissible only as part 
of  a  criminal  investigation,  and  thus  to  always  presuppose  a  concrete  suspicion  of  an  already 
committed crime. Such investigations are generally carried out by the Prefectural Police, where the 
limitations pursuant to Article 2(2) of the Police Law apply, which means it should be relevant for the 
Police  activities.  However,  the  EDPB  seeks  further  clarification  as  to  the  concrete  contours  of  the 
criteria allowing to issue an enquiry sheet (such as case law illustrating the application of these criteria), 
and the relationship between the voluntary disclosure procedure and the seizure of data on the basis 
of a warrant. Indeed, it appears that even where data could not be obtained through the voluntary 
procedure,  they  could  still  be  obtained  with  a  warrant  if  indispensable  for  the  investigative 
authorities68. 

4.1.1.3.2  Available case law on the limitations to the use of voluntary disclosure 

147.  The  cases  quoted  in  the  draft  adequacy  decision69  to  illustrate  limitations  to  the  use  of  voluntary 
disclosure procedures relate to cases, where the accused person was either photographed or filmed 
in the public space by the police directly, and therefore give limited indications as to situations where 
the competent authorities can ask a controller to disclose data, in particular with regards to the criteria 
listed  under  Annex  II  concerning  the  “appropriateness  of  methods”,  which  seems  to  concern  the 

                                                           
67 See Annex II page 8. 
68 See Annex II page 7. 
69 See Annex II page 8 – two Supreme Court decisions of December 24th, 1969 (1965 (A) No.1187) and April 
15th, 2008 (2007 (A) No.839). 

26 

 

assessment of whether voluntary investigation is “appropriate” or reasonable in order to achieve the 
purpose of the investigation. The same can be said concerning the general criteria of “whether it can 
be considered reasonable in accordance with socially accepted conventions” to assess the legality of 
voluntary investigations. Furthermore, the National Police Agency, which  is the federal authority in 
charge of all matters concerning the criminal police, issued instructions to the Prefectural Police on 
the “proper use if written inquiries in investigative matters”. Among others, the chief investigator must 
receive internal approval from a high-ranking official. The EDPB has no information if these instructions 
are binding. Nevertheless the EDPB states, that the use of this procedure has to be proportionate or 
necessary. 

4.1.1.3.3  Rights and obligations of the controllers in the context of voluntary disclosure 

148.  In addition, it is for the controllers to consent to provide data (but there appears to be no obligation 
on their part to seek the consent of data subjects or to inform them), where these requests do not 
conflict with other legal obligations (such as confidentiality obligations). The report provided by the 
Commission seems to indicate that after a high rate of compliance, controllers have started taking into 
account data protection of their customers’ and thus have started answering less frequently to these 
requests. 

149.  It also remains unclear if controllers have any incentive to comply with the requests (for instance, if 
they have an advantage when complying, or if they are exempted from prosecution, etc). In particular, 
no mention is made of any principle such as the “non-self-incrimination principle”. 

150.  The  EDPB  would  welcome  additional  information,  if  available,  figures  on  the  number  and  types  of 
requests, as well as on the answers provided by the controllers requested. In the absence of case law 
and figures, the EDPB invites the Commission to monitor the efficiency and concrete application of this 
procedure in practice 

151.  However,  the  EDPB  lacks  case  law  and  figures  on  this  procedure  to  establish  these  elements. 
Consequently, the EDPB is not in a position to provide an assessment concerning the efficiency and 
concrete application of this procedure without further elements concerning the practice. 

4.1.1.4  Conclusion on procedures for accessing data for law enforcement purposes 

152.  As a conclusion, the EDPB acknowledges that the principle according to which personal data can be 
compulsorily accessed by the competent authorities only when necessary and proportionate to the 
purpose, and on the basis of a warrant, corresponds to the main essential guarantees provided under 
EU and ECHR law. Following the findings above, the EDPB asks the Commission to monitor the scope 
of  these  measures,  the  scope  of  the  voluntary  disclosure  procedure  and  the  application  of  these 
principle by the Prefectural Police and by the Courts in the relevant case law and to monitor too, if the 
Japanese legal framework is providing the essential guarantees drawn by the CJEU on the basis of the 
Charter and the ECHR on the basis of the Convention. 

4.1.2  Oversight in the field of criminal law 

153.  The draft adequacy decision as well as the Annex II present four types of oversights conducted on the 

police, ministries and public agencies. 

4.1.2.1 

Judicial oversight 

4.1.2.1.1 

In cases where electronic information is collected by compulsory means (search and 
seizure) 

154.  According  to  the  draft  adequacy  decision,  in  all  cases  where  electronic  information  is  collected  by 
compulsory means (search and seizure), the police has to obtain a prior court warrant. However, there 

 

27 

is an exception to this rule. 70. Indeed, article 220 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows a public 
prosecutor, its assistant or a judicial police official, when they are arresting a suspect to search or seize 
electronic  information  on  the  spot  of  the  arrest.  In  this  situation,  there  is  a  possibility  for  those 
information to be excluded as evidence by a judge.  

155.  The EDPB is mindful that similar exceptions also exist under EU law. It notes that there is not always a 
judicial  control  in  cases  where  electronic  information  is  collected  by  compulsory  means,  as  it  is 
stipulated in the draft adequacy decision. In this context, the EDPB recalls the jurisprudence of the 
ECHR on judicial a posteriori checks.71  

4.1.2.1.2 

In the case of requests for voluntary disclosure 

156.  According to the draft adequacy decision, in the case of the requests for voluntary disclosure, there is 
no ex ante control by a judge. In such case, the Prefectural Police operates under the supervision of 
the public prosecutor. The draft adequacy decision mentions articles 192 (1) and 246 on the mutual 
cooperation and coordination of the prosecutors, Prefectural Public Safety Commission and Judicial 
Police Officials and exchange of information between them.  It also refers to article 193 (1) according 
to which public prosecutor may give necessary instruction to judicial police as well as setting standards 
for fair investigation. Finally, it mentions article 194 on the disciplinary actions against judicial police 
for  not  respecting  the  public  prosecutors  taken  by  the  National  or  Prefectural  Public  Safety 
Commission.  

157.  The EDPB acknowledges the establishment of the previous measures and the oversight conducted by 

National and Prefectural Public Safety Commission on the judicial police (see below).  

4.1.2.2  Oversight by the Public Safety Commissions of the police 

158.  According to the Annex II of the draft adequacy decision, two types of commissions are exerting an 
oversight of the police. Both aim at securing democratic management and political neutrality of the 
police administration.   

4.1.2.2.1  Oversight conducted by the National Public Safety Commission 

159.  Annex II of the  draft adequacy decision mentioned the  oversight  conducted by the National Public 
Safety Commission on the NPA. The Police Law gives a list of the duties of the Commission from which 
emanates its supervisory powers (see Article 5).  

160.  According to Article 4 of the Police Law, the National Public Safety Commission is established under 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Prime  Minister  and  is  composed  of  a  chairman  and  five  members.  Article  7 
establishes  some  limitations  to  the  appointment  of  the  members  of  the  Commission.  The  term  of 
Office  of  Members  of  the  Commission  is  five  years  and  may  be  re-conducted  one  time  only,  as 
prescribed in Article 8. Furthermore, the Diet, appears to have a strong power over the appointment 
and the dismissal of the Commission’s member which ensure the independence of the National Public 
Safety Commission.  

161.  Such legal provisions enhance the political neutrality of the National Public Safety Commission.  

4.1.2.2.2  Oversight conducted by Prefectural Public Safety Commissions 

162.  The  Prefectural  Police  is  subject  to  the  oversight  of  the  Prefectural  Public  Safety  Commissions 
established in each prefecture. According to Articles 2 and 36 (2) of the Police Law, the Prefectural 
Public Safety Commissions are responsible for “the protection of rights and freedom of an individual”. 
Article  38  as  well  as  Article  42  of  the  Police  Law  list  the  duties  of  the  Prefectural  Public  Safety 

                                                           
70 See Annex II. 
71 ECHR, Modestou v. Greece, N° 51693/13. 

 

28 

Commissions.  Those  Commissions  also  aim  at  securing  democratic  management  and  political 
neutrality of the police administration as stated in Article 43 (2) by issuing to the Prefectural Police 
individual cases when they consider this necessary in the context of an inspection of the activities of 
the Prefectural Police or misconduct of its personnel.  

163.  However, it is unclear whether those Commissions have other powers than the inspection of police’s 
behavior. The EDPB is wondering whether the term “misconduct” is including illegal access of data and, 
in such a case, whether those Commissions are able to order the deletion of data or not.  

164.  Regarding the neutrality and the independence of those Commissions, as stated in the draft adequacy 
decision72,  Prefectural  Public  Safety  Commissions  are  established  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
prefectural  governor  who  has  to  appoint  members  of  the  Commission  with  the  consent  of  the 
prefectural assembly. Members of the Prefectural Public Safety Commission have a three years term 
and may be re-appointed up to two times. Article 39 of the Police Law enounced limitations concerning 
the  appointment  of  the  members.  The  draft  adequacy  decision  also mentions the  oversight  of  the 
Prefectural  Police  by  local  assembly,  making  reference  of  Article  100  of  the  Local  Autonomy  Act. 
However, this act was not provided to the EDPB73.  

165.  Furthermore, according to Article 42 (2) and (3) of the Police Law, “No member of the Commission 
shall  become  concurrently  a member of the  assembly or the  personnel  in  full-time  service of  local 
public entities or be engaged in part-time service prescribed in the provision of paragraph 1, Article 28 
(5) of the Local Public Service Law.  

166.  According to the elements stated above and considering the collaboration between Prefectural Public 
Safety Commissions and National Public Safety Commission, the EDPB agrees with the draft adequacy 
decision and welcomes the neutrality and the independence of the members of the Prefectural Public 
Safety Commissions.  The EDPB understands that Prefectural Safety Commissions only have a power 
to investigate police’s behavior and do not have other supervisory powers, including the deletion of 
data collected by the prefectural police. Therefore, it appears that further clarification is needed as to 
whether the oversight conducted by Prefectural Public Safety Commissions is sufficient according the 
standards established under EU law. 

4.1.2.2.3  Oversight conducted by the Diet 

167.  The draft adequacy decision74 and the Annex II75 are providing some information about the oversight 
conducted  by  the  Diet  in  relation  to  the  government,  including  with  respect  to  the  lawfulness  of 
information collection of data by the police. Indeed, both mention the Article 62 of the Constitution 
according to which, the Diet may request the production of documents and the testimony of witnesses. 
Both are  also mentioning legal provisions from the Diet  Law, especially Article 104, concerning the 
powers  of  the  Diet  as  well  as  Article  74  on  the  submission  of  written  inquiries,  which  have  to  be 
answered by the Cabinet in writing within seven days as prescribed in Article 75. The draft adequacy 
decision also adds “The Diet’s role in supervising the executive is supported by reporting obligations, 
for instance pursuant to Article 29 of the Wiretapping Act”.  

168.  The EDPB acknowledges the implication of the Diet in the oversight of the government and the police 

regarding the lawfulness of data collection.  

                                                           
72 See draft adequacy decision p. 31. 
73 See draft adequacy decision p. 33. 
74 See draft adequacy decision p. 30. 
75 See Annex II, p. 12. 

 

29 

 

4.1.2.2.4  Oversight conducted by the executive 

169.  According to the Annex II of the draft adequacy, on the one hand, the Minister or Head of each ministry 
or agency has the authority of oversight and enforcement based on the APPIHAO76. On the other hand, 
the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) has an investigative power concerning the 
enforcement of the APPIHAO by all other ministries, including the Minister of Justice for the Police as 
mentioned in the draft adequacy decision77.  

170.  The Minister may request the head of an administrative organ to submit materials and explanations 
regarding the handling of personal information by the concerned administrative organ based on Article 
50 of the APPIHAO. It may request a revision of the measures when it is suspected that a violation or 
inappropriate operation of the Act has occurred as well as issuing opinions concerning the handling of 
personal information by the concerned Administrative Organ according to Articles 50 and 51 of the 
APPIHAO. 

171.  The  draft  adequacy  decision  and  the  Annex  II  are  also  mentioning  the  establishment  of  51 
comprehensive  information  centres  which  are  “ensuring  the  smooth  implementation  of  this  Act” 
according to Article 47 of the APPIHAO. The EDPB notes that the APPIHAO does not explain further the 
role  and  powers  of  those  information  centres  but  the  draft  adequacy  decision  provides  some 
precisions.  

172.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  welcomes  the  fact  that  there  is  an  executive  oversight  on  the  respect  of  the 

APPIHAO on Ministries and administrative organs by the MIC.  

173.  As a conclusion, EU laws and the ECHR, in the jurisprudence of their respective Courts, are establishing 
standards  and  guarantees  according  to  which  the  oversight  has  to  be  complete,  neutral  and 
independent. The EDPB notes that the PPC does not have supervisory powers in matters related to law 
enforcement. Furthermore, if the oversight conducted by the Diet, the National and Prefectural Safety 
Commission  appears  to  be  neutral  and  independent,  further  clarification  is  needed  about  the 
supervisory powers of the Prefectural Public Safety Commissions.  

4.1.3  Redress in the field of criminal law 

174.  The  draft  adequacy  decision,  complemented  by  Annex  II,  presents  several  avenues  through  which 

individuals can bring their complaints, both before independent authorities and before judges. 

175.  These  avenues  and  the  core  elements  of  these  procedures  stemming  from  the  available 
documentation are presented here after, following a brief overview of the available rights to clarify 
what data subjects can expect from public authorities in the context of data processing in the field of 
criminal procedures. 

4.1.3.1  Available rights of data subjects in the context of criminal procedures 

176.  In order to obtain redress, data subjects need to have rights under the law to be able to claim they 
were not respected. Therefore, the EDPB also assessed the available rights in the context of criminal 
procedures presented in the draft adequacy decision. 

 

                                                           
76 See Annex II p. 10. 
77 See Annex II p. 11. 

 

30 

4.1.3.1.1  General limitations to the rights of data subjects under the APPIHAO   

177.  In its draft adequacy decision, the COM refers to and relies on general data protection principles which 
public authorities have to respect, once they have collected personal data. These principles are also 
further outlined in the Annex II so that the EDPB has decided to also comment on them.  

178.  Concerning available rights, the EDPB notes that, according to Annex II of the draft Adequacy decision, 
some of the general rights provided to data subjects in the context of data processed by Administrative 
organs, remain available also in the context of criminal investigations. However, additional limitations 
with regard to the collection and further handling of personal information in this context also follow 
from the APPIHAO itself.  

179.  These limitations, which also appear to apply both in the context of data collected on the basis of a 
warrant  as  well  as  on  the  basis  of  an  enquiry  sheet  in  the  context  of  voluntary  disclosure,  raise 
questions concerning several aspects. 

180.  Concerning the principle of purpose limitation, although in principle administrative organs are required 
to specify the purpose for which they retain personal data, and shall not retain them beyond the scope 
necessary for the achievement of the purpose of use specified, they can change the purpose if it is 
“what can reasonably be considered as appropriately relevant for the original purpose”. 

181.  The APPIHAO also provides for the principle of non-disclosure, according to which an employee shall 
not disclose the acquired personal information to another person without a justifiable ground or use 
such information for an unjust purpose. However, no additional information is provided concerning 
the  interpretation  of  what  “justifiable  ground”  or  “unjust  purpose”  could  cover,  so  that  further 
clarification would be necessary for the assessment.  

182.  Article 8(1) of the APPIHAO also lays down the prohibition to use or disclose data “except as otherwise 
provided by laws and regulations”. Nevertheless, although this provision is not in principle contrary to 
the  level  of  protection  afforded  under  EU  law,  the  EDPB  lacks  additional  elements  concerning  the 
extent  to  which  any  supervision  or  checks  is  exercised  when  disclosure  is  provided  by  laws  or 
regulations.  In  addition,  under  Article  8(2),  additional  exceptions  apply  to  this  rule  where  “such 
exceptional disclosure is not likely to cause unjust harm to the rights and interests of the data subject 
or a third party”. Without any further elements on this point, this exception, which relies on the unclear 
notion of “unjust” harm, needs further clarification, if it is narrow enough.  

183.  Lastly, Article 9 of the APPIHAO provides for additional restrictions on the purpose or method of use 
or  any  other  restrictions,  to  be  imposed  by  the  head  of  an  administrative  organ  where  retained 
personal  information  is  provided  to  another  person.  As  the  notions  of  “any  other  necessary 
restrictions”  and  “provided  to  another  person”  are  very  broad,  these  additional  restrictions  to  the 
rights of data subjects raise concerns without further clarifications on the scope of this provision. 

184.  While the EDPB is fully aware that access rights and other data protection principles are also limited in 
criminal  proceedings  under  EU  law,  additional  safeguards  are  provided  when  such  limitations  are 
foreseen, including in terms of supervision, oversight and redress. In the absence of sufficient case law 
on these limitations or additional elements to clarify the scope of these provisions, the EDPB is not in 
a position to assess whether these limitations to the rights of data subjects are limited to what would 
be  considered  strictly  necessary  and  proportionate  under  EU  law,  and  would  thus  be  essentially 
equivalent to the rights provide to the EU data subjects. 

 

 

31 

4.1.3.1.2  Additional limitations to the rights of the APPIHAO deriving from the Code of Criminal 

Procedure and the Prefectural Police ordinances 

185.  The EDPB notes that although the APPIHAO seems to be applicable to all processing by administrative 
organs  in  Japan,  some  important  limitations  to  the  rights  of  data  subjects  derive  from  specific 
legislations. In particular, Article 53 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure78 provides that “personal 
information recorded in documents relating to trials and seized articles” are excluded from the scope 
of application of the individual rights in Chapter IV of the APPIHAO. Concretely, the EDPB therefore 
understands that in the context of criminal procedures, data subjects do not benefit from the rights to 
information, access, rectification or erasure for personal data recorded in documents relating to trials 
and seized articles. 

186.  With  regards  to  these  limitations,  the  EDPB  understands  that  they  apply  in  the  context  of  data 
collected  on  the  basis  of  warrants,  as  well  as  in  the  context  of  data  collected  under  the  voluntary 
disclosure through enquiry sheets (see below). Indeed, the legal basis of the two procedures to access 
data  (through  a  warrant  and  through  an  enquiry  sheet)  being  provided  in  the  code  of  criminal 
procedure, Article 53-2 of this code appears to apply to both types of collection. However, as Article 
53-2 refers to the articles “seized” it could be clarified whether the limitations to the rights foreseen 
under this provision do apply also in the context of voluntary disclosure. 

187.  The EDPB regrets not to be provided with the ordinances of the Prefectural Police, which are said to 
be protecting personal information, rights and obligations equivalent to the APPIHAO. Given both the 
unclarities regarding the interpretation of the APPIHAO and the unavailability of the Prefectural Police 
ordinances, the EDPB wonders, if the granted rights to the individuals in this context, and the additional  
oversight and/or redress mechanisms are sufficient to  compensate the absence of rights.  

4.1.3.2  Redress through independent authorities redress 

4.1.3.2.1  Administrative redress 

188.  The  EDPB  notes  that  the  administrative  organs  collecting  data,  such  as  the  Prefectural  Police,  are 
competent to deal with requests stemming from individuals concerning their – limited – rights with 
regards  to  their  data  collected  as  part  of  criminal  investigations  (see  above  concerning  the  rights 
available), which appear to include  both the  collection of data based on a warrant  and on enquiry 
sheets. Concretely, these rights seem to be limited to general principles, such as the necessity of data 
retention, in connection with the purpose (see Article 3.1 APPIHAO), the purpose limitation principle 
(Article 4) or the accuracy of the data (Article 5), while individual rights such as the right to information, 
access, rectification or erasure are excluded for personal data recorded in documents relating to trials 
and seized articles79. Although these organs cannot be considered as independent and therefore as 
providing independent redress or oversight, the EDPB welcomes this avenue. However, it stresses that 
complaints  filed  in  this  context  remain  limited  to  very  few  rights  of  the  data  subjects  given  the 
limitations of rights provided by the APPIHAO. 

189.  Furthermore, as “personal information recorded in documents relating to trials and seized articles” are 
excluded from the scope of application of the individual rights in Chapter IV of the APPIHAO pursuant 
to  Articles  53-2  of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure,  the  possibilities  to  request  access  to  personal 
information are also limited to the procedures foreseen under other provisions of this Code of Criminal 
Procedure. It seems that only victims, suspected or accused persons can act in this context, and still, 

                                                           
78 Available here http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail/?printID=&id=2283&re=02&vm=02 and 
quoted in Annex II of the draft adequacy decision, footnote 25. 
79 See supra concerning the limitations to APPIHAO and in particular see article 53-2 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure (not provided but quoted in annex II of the draft adequacy decision, footnote 25). 

32 

 

depending on the stage of the criminal procedure. Therefore, the EDPB is concerned that no general 
right to access and/or rectify or delete information is available to data subjects under Japanese law in 
the context of criminal procedure, and that all redress avenues available imply to be either a victim (in 
which case the person would probably know that his/her data were collected) or a suspect or accused 
person, or the  demonstration  of  a  damage,  while  data  subjects  should  also  have  the  right  to  have 
access to their data and possibly to have their data rectified or deleted when they did not suffer any 
damage  (yet  possibly)  and/or  when  they  are  neither  a victim,  a suspect or  an accused  person,  but 
witnesses for instance. 

4.1.3.2.2  Administrative redress through the Prefectural Public Safety Commissions 

190.  In  addition,  the  Prefectural  Public  Safety  Commissions  appear  to  be  competent  to  deal  with 
complaints. Based on Article 79 of the Police law referred to in the draft adequacy decision, individuals 
can complaint against any illegal or improper behaviour of an agent in the execution of his/her duties.  

191.  The EDPB seeks clarification whether any “illegal” processing of personal data qualifies for an “illegal 
or improper behaviour of an agent” and on the demonstration of a disadvantage which seems required 
from the data subject. Indeed, the notice issued by the NPA to the Police and Prefectural Public Safety 
Commissions on the proper handling of complaints regarding the execution of duties by police officers 
limit the complaints to concrete claims concerning “correction for any specific disadvantage that has 
been inflicted as the result of an illegal or inappropriate behaviour, or failure to take a necessary action, 
by a police officer in his/her execution of duty” and the possibility to “file grievance/discontent about 
inappropriate mode of duty execution by a police officer”.  It is expressly clarified that “complaints on 
non-performance of a police officer concerning any matter that is not considered to fall under a police 
officer's  duty, and  also  those  expressing  a  general opinion  or a  proposal,  not directly  affecting  the 
complaining party itself, shall be excluded”. 

192.  Concerning the procedural requirements to file a complaint, although they have to be filed in writing, 
the EDPB notes that assistance for writing the complaint is provided in this context under Japanese 
law, including for foreigners. In addition, the Japanese government seems to have also entrusted the 
PPC with the duty to provide assistance to EU data subjects to handle and resolve complaints in this 
field, which the EDPB welcomes. The EDPB underlines that in its understanding, in this  context, the 
PPC will only act as a point of contact between the EU data subjects and the competent authorities in 
Japan.  

193.  The results of the Prefectural Public Safety Commission following a complaint shall not be noticed in 
cases listed in Article 79-2 of the Police Act, which includes the case where the current “resident of the 
complainant is unknown”. The EDPB acknowledges that the reference to the resident does not imply 
that in all cases EU data subjects would therefore be excluded from the notification of the results of 
their complaints on the ground they are not residing in Japan. 

4.1.3.2.3  Ad Hoc mechanism implying the PPC 

194.  In view of the findings described above, The EDPB welcomes that the Japanese government and the 
EU  Commission  have  agreed  on  an  additional  redress  mechanism  providing  EU  individuals  with  an 
additional avenue for redress in Japan through which individuals can also seek redress against unlawful 
or improper investigations by public authorities. The EDPB also notes and welcomes that the requests 
can be lodged with the PPC, rather than with another government official, thereby extending the scope 
of competence of the PPC to the area of law enforcement and national security.   

195.  The focus of the EDPB, when analysing the new mechanism, has been to understand the powers the 

PPC has in this context.  

 

33 

196.  Even  though  the  language  is  not  entirely  clear,  the  EDPB  understands  that  the  additional  redress 
mechanism does not require “standing” in the meaning that the requestor is not required to show that 
her personal data is likely to have been subjected to surveillance by a Japanese authority. The EDPB 
would still like to request confirmation by the Commission.   

197.  In line with its assessment of the Ombudsperson mechanism, created under the Privacy Shield, the 
EDPB stresses the need for effective powers of the addressee of the request, in this case the PPC, in 
order  to  consider  the  redress  mechanism  as  essentially  equivalent  to  an  effective  remedy  in  the 
meaning of Art. 47 of the Charta on Fundamental Rights.  

198.  When explaining the redress mechanism, the Japanese government refers to Art. 6, 61 (ii) and 80 APPI 
and  lays  out  these  powers  in  Annex  II.  It  is  the  understanding  of  the  EDPB  that  the  procedure  as 
described in Annex II specifies or extends the powers of the PPC, as the language in Art. 6, 61 (ii) and 
80 APPI is rather vague and general. To the extent Annex II specifies or extends the powers of the PPC, 
the EDPB would like to ask for clarification that the other agencies of the Japanese government are 
bound by them.  

199.  On the basis of the procedure in Annex II, the EDPB notes that the competent public authorities in 
Japan  are  required  to  cooperate  with  the  PPC,  “including  by  providing  them  with  the  necessary 
information  and  relevant  material,  so  that  the  PPC  can  evaluate  whether  the  collection  or  the 
subsequent use of personal information has taken place in compliance with the applicable rules”. For 
the assessment of the effectiveness of the system, it is thus important to refer again to the powers 
that those competent authorities have with which the PPC cooperates. It is the understanding of the 
EDPB that those powers would not be extended through the reassurances in Annex II.  

200.  The  EDPB  also  notes  that,  if  a  violation  of  the  rules  has  been  identified,  “the  cooperation  by  the 
concerned  public  authorities  with  the  PPC  includes  the  obligation  to  remedy  the  violation”,  which 
expressly  includes  the  deletion  of  the  data  collected  in  violation  of  the  applicable  rules.  The  EDPB 
understands  that the  obligations of  the  competent  authority  stem  from the “cooperation  with the 
PPC”, rather than from a decision by the PPC.    

201.  Finally, the PPC will inform the requestor of the “outcome of the evaluation, including any corrective 
action taken where applicable.” In addition, the PPC will inform the requestor about the “possibility of 
seeking a confirmation of the outcome from the competent public authority and about the authority 
to which such a request for confirmation shall be made.” 

202.  In addition, the PPC has committed to assist the requestor with bringing further action under Japanese 

law, if the requestor is dissatisfied with the outcome of the procedure. 

203.  In light of the need to have an effective redress mechanism essentially equivalent to the EU standards, 
the EDPB nevertheless wonders if the PPC has any specific powers other than evaluating whether the 
collection  or  the  subsequent  use  of  personal  information  has  taken  place  in  compliance  with  the 
applicable rules and calling on the competent authorities to use their respective powers and to deal 
with complaints forwarded to them by the PPC.  Should the PPC only act as a contact point for the EU 
individuals, the EDPB would consider this as insufficient to provide for an effective redress mechanism 
essentially  equivalent  to  the  EU  standards.  The  EDPB  thus  calls  on  the  Commission  to  provide 
clarifications  on  the  points  mentioned  in  this  sub-chapter,  in  particular  on  whether  and  how  the 
mechanism extends the obligations of competent authorities, how they are bound by it, and how the 
PPC can effectively ensure compliance and not only acting as a contact point for EU individuals. 

 
 

 

34 

4.1.3.3 

Judicial redress 

4.1.3.3.1  Quasi complaint mechanism 

204.  The so-called “quasi-complaint” procedure allows to act against compulsory collection of information 

based on a warrant to have an illegal seizure rescinded or altered.  

205.  This avenue implies the individual is aware of the data being seized. However, the EDPB understands 
that the procedure for the collection of data based on a warrant is not notified to the data subject. 
Equally, it understands that voluntary disclosure does not imply that companies requested have the 
obligation to inform the data subjects of requests received and complied with. Therefore, although it 
is stressed in the Annex II that “such a challenge can be brought without the individual having to wait 
for the conclusion of the case”, in practice, apart for warrants authorising wiretapping, for which it is 
indicated that the Law provides for a notification requirement80, this avenue seems to be effectively 
available only once the data subject got aware of the collection through a case brought against her or 
him.  

4.1.3.3.2 

Injunctive relief 

206.  In addition, in order to obtain the  deletion of data collected through a criminal procedure  (the  so-
called “injunctive relief”), or to obtain compensation of damages, individuals can also bring civil actions 
before a judge. 

207.  As regards compensation, the EDPB notes that the procedure seems to be circumscribed to situations 
where a public officer in the course of his duties, unlawfully and with fault (intentionally or negligently) 
inflicted damage on the individual concerned. In the understanding of the EDPB, the damage appears 
to include moral damages. It is however not set out in further detail what needs to be demonstrated 
by the individual that he/she suffered a damage. The EDPB was not in a position to assess the case law 
concerning  the  award  of  compensation,  and  is  therefore  unable  to  assess  whether  this  avenue 
provides for an effective remedy in case of damage. 

208.  With regards to the “injunctive relief”, the EDPB also notes that to file a request, the individual should 
first be aware that his/her data were collected and that they are still retained. Therefore, given the 
limited  rights  of  information  and  access  of  individuals  in  the context  of  criminal  investigations  and 
procedures, the efficiency of the procedure appears to be rather limited too. 

4.1.3.4  Overall assessment of the avenues for redress 

209.  Following the assessment of all the redress avenues open for individuals under Japanese law as well 
as  to  the  EU  data  subjects  before  the  PPC,  the  EDPB  welcomes  the  ad  hoc  dispute  resolution 
mechanism, involving the PPC. It has an added value for EU data subjects, in particular since it allows 
them to understand which avenues are available for them to obtain redress and/or compensation, as 
well as to present their requests according to the applicable procedural requirements under Japanese 
law. However, further clarifications are necessary, in particular on whether and how the mechanism 
extends the  obligations of competent  authorities,  how  they are bound by it, and how  the PPC can 
effectively  ensure  compliance,  in  order  to  ensure  that  this  new  mechanism  provides  for  effective 
redress. 

210.  This  assessment  shows  that  no  redress  mechanism  in  Japanese  law  appears  to  allow  for  access, 
rectification  or  deletion  of  data  for  data  subjects  who  are  not  victims,  suspects  or  accused  in  the 
context of a criminal procedure, for instance to remedy unlawful collection or retention of their data. 

                                                           
80 Article 23 of the Wiretapping Act is mentioned page 33 of the draft adequacy decision, however the EDPB 
was not provided with this text and is therefore unable to assess to which extent this notification obligation 
applies and in which cases it might be limited.  

35 

 

It also shows that all redress and compensation mechanisms and procedures available under Japanese 
law  for  victims,  suspects  or  accused  person  imply  the  knowledge  of  the  collection  of  data,  which 
appears to be limited in practice since limited rights of access and information are provided for them. 
In addition, further clarification appears necessary about the demonstration of an illegal behaviour on 
the  part  of  the  authorities,  in  particular  whether  such  behaviour  includes  any  illegal  processing  of 
personal data, or of a damage suffered by the individual.  

211.  Therefore, without further documentation and elements, the EDPB is concerned as to whether redress 
under Japanese law and under the draft adequacy decision is sufficiently effective compared to the 
standards in EU law.  

4.2  Access for national security purposes 
4.2.1  Scope of surveillance 

212.  In  the  draft  adequacy  decision,  the  chapter  on  “access  and  use  by  Japanese  public  authorities  for 
national security purposes” is introduced by a general statement, in line with the reassurance provided 
by the Japanese government in Annex II, according to which no Japanese law would provide and thus 
permit  “compulsory  requests  for  information  or  "administrative  wiretapping"  outside  criminal 
investigations”. As a conclusion, it is said that “on national security grounds information may only be 
obtained from an information source that can be freely accessed by anyone or by voluntary disclosure. 
This excludes any covert surveillance activities in this area. Business operators receiving a request for 
voluntary  cooperation  (in  the  form  of  disclosure  of  electronic  information)  are  under  no  legal 
obligation to provide such information.”81 

213.  Within these limitations, four government entities are listed which have the power to collect electronic 
information  held  by  Japanese  business  operators  on  national  security  grounds.  With  regard  to  the 
Ministry  of  Defence,  as  one  of  those  four  entities,  it  is  said  that  it  “only  has  authority  to  collect 
(electronic) information through voluntary disclosures”.82  

214.  For its assessment of the general setup of data collection for the purpose of national security, the EDPB 
wishes to recall the first of the four so called “essential guarantees”, according to which “processing 
should be based on clear, precise and accessible rules”.83 More specifically, the ECHR has been very 
clear that surveillance programs are only “in accordance with the law” if the surveillance measures 
“have  some  basis  in  domestic  law”.  The  court  has  clarified  that  compatibility  with  the  rule  of  law 
requires the law authorizing the measure must be accessible and foreseeable as to its effects. Referring 
to  the  risk  of  arbitrariness,  the  court  has  required  “clear,  detailed  rules  on  secret  surveillance 
measures”; “sufficiently clear to give citizens an adequate indication as to the circumstances in which 
and the conditions on which public authorities are empowered to resort to any such measure”.84  

215.  For the application of these essential guarantees to the legal system of Japan, the EDPB is aware not 
only  of  the  fact  that,  in  matters  of  national  security,  states  have  a  broad  margin  of  appreciation, 
recognized by the European Court of Human Rights. Also, national security powers reflect the historical 
experiences  nations  make.  The  EDPB  thus  understands  that,  as  emphasized  by  the  Japanese 

                                                           
81 Adequacy decision, paragraph 151. 
82 Adequacy decision, paragraph 153. 
83 WP29, WP 237: Working Document 01/2016 on the justification of interferences with the fundamental rights 
to privacy and data protection through surveillance measures when transferring personal data (European 
Essential Guarantees). 
84 See e.g. Big Brother Watch and others v. the United Kingdom, paragraph 305.   

36 

 

government,  after  World  War  II,  Japanese  national  intelligence  agencies  have  been  equipped  with 
more limited powers than in other states.       

216.  In the reading of the EDPB, the draft adequacy decision, in line with the reassurance by the Japanese 
government,  suggests  that  Japanese  government  entities  do  not  run  programs,  which  strategically 
monitor or broadly surveille (internet) communication. As said above, the Japanese government has 
given  reassurance,  in  a  letter  signed  by  the  Minister  of  Justice,  that  “on  national  security  grounds 
information may only be obtained from an information source that can be freely accessed by anyone 
or by voluntary disclosure”.  

217.  As  to  the  legal  basis  of  the  Ministry  of  Defence,  the  EDPB  notes  that  the  draft  adequacy  decision 
includes  general  information  about  its  powers  and  quotes  its  mission  “to  conduct  such  affairs  as 
related thereto in order to secure national peace and independence, and the safety of the nation”. 
However, the EDPB has not been provided with an English translation of the legal basis.  

218.  At  the  same  time,  the  EDPB  is  aware  of  reports  published  in  different  media  suggesting  that 
surveillance programs are run by the Directorate for Signals Intelligence of Japan’s Ministry of Defense 
(MOD).85  In  the  report,  it  is  also  claimed  that  the  Japanese  Ministry  of  Defense,  while  refusing  to 
discuss specifics of the report, has “acknowledged that Japan has “offices throughout the country” that 
are  intercepting  communications”  and  that  those  “would  be  focused  on  military  activities  and 
“cyberthreats” and are “not collecting the general public’s information”. The latter statement (that the 
MOD  does  not  collect  information  on  the  general  public)  is  made  part  of  the  restatement  by  the 
Japanese government. 

219.  It stands that the Japanese government has restated, in a letter signed by the Minister of Justice, that 

the MOD does not collect information on the general public.  

220.  It is beyond the task of the EDPB to make a general assessment of the possible surveillance capabilities 
of the Japanese government. Those activities are only important for its assessment if they are relevant 
for the transfer of personal data between the EU and Japan. In this context, the EDPB would like to 
reaffirm its approach already adopted by its predecessor when asked to opine on the EU-U.S. Privacy 
Shield. When giving an opinion on the Privacy Shield, the WP29 included in its analysis the powers and 
limits of the U.S. to conduct surveillance of data “on its way” to the U.S.86 Applying the same standard 
for  the  adequacy  decision  on  Japan,  the  EDPB  takes  the  view  that  information  on  the  powers  of 
Japanese authorities to surveille data “on its way” to Japan are  relevant. Should these surveillance 
powers exist, also the decision in Big Brother Watch by the ECHR appears to suggest that such powers 
would have to be regulated in accordance with the standards established by the ECHR.  

221.  As a consequence, if interceptions were limited to the “assistance of military action”, they may well 
not  be relevant for the  assessment of the adequacy decision. It is thus the  interest of the EDPB to 
receive clarifications on the surveillance measures by Japanese governmental entities. In this respect, 
such clarification would be welcome in order to determine whether data undergoing transfer under 

                                                           
85 In May 2018, the online news publication “The Intercept” published a report titled “The untold story of 
Japan’s secret spy agency”. 
86 See WP255, EU-U.S. Privacy Shield –First annual joint review, adopted on 28 November 2017, p. 16: “WP29 is 
of the view that the analysis of the laws of the third-country for which adequacy is considered, should not be 
limited to the law and practice allowing for surveillance within that country’s physical borders, but should also 
include an analysis of the legal grounds in that third-country’s law which enable it to conduct surveillance 
outside its territory as far as EU data are concerned. As already underlined in its previous opinion, “it should be 
clear that the Privacy Shield Principles will apply from the moment the data transfer takes place, which means 
including as regards data “on its way” to that country.”  

37 

 

this adequacy framework could be the subject of access for national security purposes by the Japanese 
competent authorities in that field. 

4.2.2  Voluntary disclosure in case of national security 

222.  The draft adequacy decision states that the four government entities only have the authority to collect 
(electronic) information by voluntary disclosure. According to the draft decision and Annex II, there 
are some limitations on statutory grounds, which means that the collection of data is limited to what 
is necessary for the execution of the tasks by the entities. 

223.  In the area of criminal law, as mentioned in the section about law enforcement, voluntary disclosure 
is only permissible as part of a criminal investigation, and thus presupposes a concrete suspicion of a 
crime  that  is  already  committed.  Investigations  in  the  area  of  national  security  differ  from 
investigations in the area of law enforcement. The EDPB acknowledges that, according to Annex II, the 
central principles of “necessity for investigation” and “appropriateness of method” similarly apply in 
the area of national security and have to be complied with taking appropriate account of the specific 
circumstances of each case.87 It regrets that the application is not further clarified, including by way of 
further reference to case law. Nevertheless the EDPB states, that the use of this procedure has to be 
proportionate or necessary. 

224.  According  to  the  draft  decision,  when  personal  information  has  been  collected  (‘obtained’),  its 
handling  is  governed  by  the  APPIHAO  except  for  the  Prefectural  Police.88    Annex  II  states  that  the 
handling of personal information by the Prefectural Police is governed by prefectural ordinances that 
stipulate principles for the protection of personal information, rights and obligations equivalent to the 
APPIHAO.89 Because there are no English translations available for these ordinances, the EDPB is not 
in a position to assess whether the principles are equivalent to those of the APPIHAO. 

225.  For the other remarks on voluntary disclosure, reference is made to the section on law enforcement.  

4.2.3  Oversight 

4.2.3.1  General Points 

226.  The four government entities empowered to collect electronic information held by Japanese business 
operators on national security grounds, are: (i) the Cabinet Intelligence & Research Office (CIRO); (ii) 
the Ministry of Defence ("MOD"); (iii) the police (both National Police Agency (NPA)90 and Prefectural 
Police); and (iv) the Public Security Intelligence Agency ("PSIA"). 

227.  According to the draft adequacy decision, these government entities are subject to several layers of 
oversight  from  three  branches  of  the  government91.  The  EDPB  notes  that  there  are  oversight 
mechanism within the legislative branch (Japanese Diet) and the executive branch (Inspector General’s 
Office of Legal Compliance (IGO), the Prefectural Public Safety Commissions and the Public Security 
Examination Commission). The EDPB stresses that the COM should clarify the judicial oversight  (ex-
officio/guarantee C of the WP 237; for redress, there is a separate chapter in the draft decision and an 
extra guarantee in the WP 237) of the above-mentioned government bodies, as it is unclear whether 

                                                           
87 See Annex II, pp. 23. 
88 Adequacy decision, paragraph 118 and 157. 
89 See Annex II, pp. 3.  
90  However, according to the information received, the main role of the NPA is to coordinate investigations 

by the various Prefectural Police departments and its information collection activities are limited to 
exchanges with foreign authorities.  

91 See Annex II, pp. 39. 

 

38 

there is such a judicial oversight in the area of collection of personal information for national security 
purposes without compulsory means. 

4.2.3.2  Oversight by the Japanese Diet 

228.  The EDPB notes that the Japanese Diet may conduct investigations in relation to the activities of public 
authorities, therefore also for all of the aforementioned government entities. Furthermore, the diet 
may  also  request  the  production  of  documents  and  the  testimony  of  witnesses  (Article  62  of  the 
Japanese Constitution, Article 104 Diet Law). The EDPB also remarks that according to Articles 74 and 
75 Diet Law, Diet members may ask written questions to the Cabinet which may end in an answer from 
the Cabinet (Article 75 Diet Law). Finally, it is as well noted that there are specific reporting obligations 
for  e.g.  the  Public  Security  Intelligence  Agency  (PSIA)  (Article  36  SAPA/Art  31  ACO),  by  means of  a 
yearly report to the Diet. Such a report was not provided to the EDPB. 

4.2.3.3  Oversight by the Inspector General’s Office of Legal Compliance (IGO) 

229.  The EDPB notes that there is an oversight body for the MOD, called IGO. The EDPB was not provided 
with  the  MOD  Establishment  Act  (Act  for  the  Establishment  of  the  MOD),  but  only  with  the 
representations in Annex II to the draft decision. Pursuant to Annex II, the IGO is an independent office 
within the MOD, which is under the direct supervision of the Minister of Defense according to Article 
29 of the MOD Establishment Act. The IGO has the powers of carrying out inspections of compliance 
with  laws  and  regulations  by  officials  of  the  MOD  (« so  called  « Defense  Inspections »),  across  the 
entire ministry including the Self-Defense Forces.  

230.  Pursuant  to  the  Annex  II,  the  IGO  performs  its  duties  independently  from  MOD’s  operational 

departments. The EDPB notes that the IGO is an internal oversight body.  

231.  Inspections lead to findings and, with the intention to ensure compliance, measures which are directly 
reported to the Minister of Defence. Based on the report of the IGO, the Minister of Defence may issue 
orders to implement the measures necessary to remedy the situation. The Deputy Vice minister of 
Defence is responsible for implementing these measures and must report to the Minister of Defence 
on the status of such an implementation. 

232.  Analysing Annex II, without being provided with the legal provisions (MOD Establishment Act) for this 
considerations,  the  EDPB  welcomes  the  possibility  of  ordering  necessary  compliance  measures  to 
remedy the situation. However, the EDPB raises doubts regarding the independence of the IGO, as it 
is an office within the MOD and is under direct supervision of the Minister of Defence pursuant to 
Annex II (according to the WP 237 « functional independence is not by itself sufficient to protect that 
supervisory authority from all external influence»).  

233.  In alignment to the case law of the ECHR and the WP 237 respectively following the considerations of 
Annex II, the Inspector General can request for reports from the concerned office (documents, sites, 
explanations). Clarification as to whether the offices concerned are obliged to follow these requests 
or not and whether the requested documents include closed materials, like the WP 237 mentions or 
not, appear necessary to the EDPB.  

234.  Although the EDPB welcomes that very senior legal experts (former Superintending Prosecutor) head 

the IGO, clarification about the manner of appointment of this supervisory body appears necessary. 

4.2.3.4  Oversight by Public Security Examination Commission 

235.  According to Annex II (page 25), PSIA carries out regular and special inspections on the operations of 
its  individual  bureaus  and  offices  (Public  Security  Intelligence  Bureau,  Public  Security  Intelligence 
Offices and Sub Offices, etc). For the purposes of the regular inspection, an Assistant Director General 

 

39 

and/or a Director are designated as inspectors. Such inspections should also concern the management 
of personal information.  

236.  Pursuant to recital 163 of the draft decision the Public Security Examination Commission operates as 
an independent ex ante oversight body for the PSIA, with regards to issues of the ACO92 and SAPA93. 
The EDPB welcomes that.  

237.  Although the website of the Japanese Ministry of Justice provides some information94, the EDPB is not 
in  the  position  to  carefully  further  assess  the  independency  of  the  Public  Security  Examination 
Commission  since  it  was  not  provided  with  the  Act  of  the  establishment  of  the  Public  Security 
Examination Commission95 and the Rules of the Public Security Examination Commission96.  

4.2.3.5  Oversight by National Public Safety Commission, Prefectural Public Safety Commissions 

and the APPIHAO (executive) 

238.  See 3.1.2.2.1 (National Public Safety Commission), 3.1.2.2.2. (Prefectural Public Safety Commissions) 

and 3.1.2.2.4. (Executive).   

4.2.3.6  Oversight by PPC 

239.  The EDPB invites the COM to either mention in Recital 164 that the PPC is not an oversight body for 
the aforementioned government entities and that it is only competent for the redress of the individuals 
or to move the passage in recital 164 about the PPC to the section « individual redress ».  

4.2.4  Redress mechanism 

240.  For the analysis of the newly negotiated redress mechanism, reference is made to the section on law 

enforcement. 

241.  In addition, it is noteworthy that the Japanese law provides for a specific individual redress avenue 
available  in  the  area  of  national  security.  It  is  the  understanding  of  the  EDPB  that  all  individuals, 
including  EU  individuals,  may  generally  request  disclosure,  correction  (including  deletion)  or 
suspension of  use  from  the  administrative  organs,  also  if  those  are  processed  for  national  security 
purposes.  In  case  such  a  request  is  “rejected  on  the  grounds  that  the  concerned  information  is 
considered non-disclosable”, an appeal for review may be lodged, and the “Information Disclosure and 
Personal  Information  Protection  Review  Board“  has  to  be  consulted.  The  Board  is  composed  of 
members  appointed  by  the  Prime  Minister  with  the  consent  of  both  Houses,  equipped  with 
investigative powers, and concludes with a written report for the concerned individual, which is not 

                                                           
92 Act on the Control of Organizations Which Have Committed Acts of 
Indiscriminate Mass Murder (Act No. 147 of December 7, 1999). 
93 Subversive Activities Prevention Act(Act No. 240 of July 21, 1952). 
94 See http://www.moj.go.jp/ENGLISH/MEOM/meom-01.html (September 2018): the extra-ministerial organ ”is 
composed of a chairperson and six members. They are selected from among persons of good character who are 
capable of making a fair judgment on the control of organizations and those who have ample knowledge and 
experience of both law and society. They are appointed by the Prime Minister and must be approved by both 
houses of the Diet. With regard to the application of the previously mentioned laws (SAPA/ACO), the members 
perform  their  duties  quite  independently,  free  from  any  direction  or  supervision  of  the  Prime  Minister  or  the 
Minister of Justice.” 
95 http://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/law/detail_main?re=&vm=2&id=613 (September 2018). 
96 Article 28 ACO. 

40 

 

legally binding, but almost always followed.97 According to Annex II, there were only two out of 2000 
cases, where an administrative authority took a decision that differed from the Board’s conclusion.98  

242.  It appears to follow from the explanation provided that the review is not available, if the information 
can be “disclosed” but the individual is dissatisfied with the outcome. The EDPB acknowledges this 
avenue  for  redress,  but  would  like  to  seek  further  clarification  on  the  latter  aspect,  which  would 
significantly limit its scope.  

 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

                                                           
97 Annex II, p. 25, 26. Act for Establishment of the Information Disclosure and Personal Information Protection 
Review Board, Art. 4, 9, 11. 
98 Annex II, footnote 35. 

41 

 

