In the matter of the General Data Protection Regulation

Commission Case Reference: IN-20-7-2

In the matter of Bank of Ireland Group plc

Decision of the Data Protection Commission made pursuant to Section 111 of the Data Protection Act
2018

Further to an own-volition inquiry commenced pursuant to Section 110 of the Data Protection Act 2018

DECISION

Decision-Maker for the Data Protection Commission:

Helen Dixon
Commissioner for Data Protection

27 February 2023

An Coimisiun um
Chosaint Sonrai
Data Protection
Commission

Data Protection Commission
21 Fitzwilliam Square South
Dublin 2, Ireland

Contents

A. ITFOGUCTION .......ccccccesessseeececececeseseesnnaceesseeesseesnnaeseseeesessasaeeeeeeeesaneeceeeseeeensaeeaeeessesersanesecessesenes 4
B. Legal Framework for the Inquiry and the De@CiSION ....... ccc cee se essence eecseeeeeeseeeneneesseeeneseeeas 4

i) Legal Basis for the INQuiry...........ccccccccssstecesssceeseseeeerstneeeesseesesereecerneceseseseccsrsseereeseeeessredeeeneeeerens 4

Fi) = Data CONtrOller. ei... cee ccececccceceeecaeneneenreseseeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeseseaeeseeeeeseeeeseeesseuseueesesaueusueessaseuuaan eas 4

fii) Legal Basis for the D@CISION...... eee seccesstecereecesseneneeseeersesneneacecassercacersceessesnenseasseeesusannasereetes 5
C. Feat) BSCR IG ose soe ce coresrcroran en swarms erry negee snd ne eve one bid Hand DESL TRE UR AAS cS SO NMI MRS OO ORCL EET 5
D. Scope of the Inquiry and the Application of the GDPR ....... eects cee eeeeeeesaeeeseenenenaaaaees 7
E. Submissions in relation to the Draft DECISION ............e eee eeeeeeeeetceeseeeeeresesseeeeetseneseeanaseeaseaseeseens 7
F. Issues for Determination ...........ccccccccssccccceesssssaaeeeceerecnseceeereceeseneueeeeeesesepessaseneaccecesereereeasesesennan 8
G. Articles Sai TCP eyvel SE SNP ones ce ronan con aero ream ron sears BRS REE PE OTe emcee neers ere eae oes aOR 8

a) Assessment Of the RiSkS .............cccceesssescccccesssessneecesesesenaaeececcesseceneeeeersesensnaueeceseseoeseesseeaeecesensaas 9

b) The Appropriate Level of S@CUTItY..........eeeceecesseececesreeceeeeeneeaensnssseseseseeessensneseeeraversreeseseneas 17
H. FINGINGS ..........cccccssseessssssessscececececceeneeeeeenanaenaeneneneeeeeees eee neaceveseeeeeseeeeseneseeeeeeeepeeeseeesereeteeseeseeesenees 20
l. DSCISiGih OM COTTE PUES ee we cum west ms e92 72 cece coe trae cara ae em ers ose a asm mw CMO aH 21
J. Order to Bring Processing Into COMPLIANCE............ cece ceeeeseertersnececeesceseeetereeeseenserserereeaeesseesesey 21
K. REPriMand .......:.ccccccccseseecseesenneeeceecceceseseaneeeeseseeeseeeeseeseeeseeassaeessesueeseeseeseeesenaseeeaseseseventeeeenea sn 23
L. AGM ISEFATIVE FIGS we nose sce on cx ene vr x nae veer 9 nm vn roen an d REG BEG PG PR Mn as ns ws Ba oe as A oS TON Oa a 24

Article 83(2)(a) GDPR: the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into account
the nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects

affected and the level of damage suffered by theim}...............: cc ccccccessessnreseeeseeeeesesseaeeeeeeeesreeenenes 25
The nature of the iInfrinGeMents .........cccccccccccsessscnceccecceeceevevevevsceeserseaeeceeaeesecereserereceesesessesaeaeenes 26
PARE GQEOUIEM GOP TIE TTI CSITIOEIEGS cerns rn ema tort ai S05 FE 8 OS FGF wey ee ar ee a TT 26
The duration of the infrinG@Ments ........ccccccccccssesccecssseeesesessssuseeeecseseessenseessenseseeeteceeseeeseneanees 27
Article 83(2)(b) GDPR: the intentional or negligent character of the infringement; ..................... 27

Article 83(2)(c) GDPR: any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the damage
SUffered by data SUBJECTS; ...........cccccccccccccccceceeecececeeeeseceeeceteeeeceseeeuensssseadeeeasee ee seeeeeeeeeseneseeseseserenseneeey 28

Article 83(2)(d) GDPR: the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into
account technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25
SRN ah Sy PU eee sas ene meron even n srs ura anv marl Sad HG SEE 0 HE 9 9 wm ae ee SR a 29

Article 83(2)(e) GDPR: any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor, ...... 29

Article 83(2)(f) GDPR: the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order to
remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringementy.......... 29

Article 83(2)(g) GDPR: the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;................. 30

Article 83(2)(h) GDPR: the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory
authority, in particular whether, and if so to what extent, the controller or processor notified
the InfrinGeMents 220.00... eee cccceccccceeeseceensececeseeseaeseeseeeesceeenstaeseseseeeeeseasessseneeseesensesteesseaetareenenenes 30
Article 83(2)(i) GDPR: where measures referred to in Article 58(2) GDPR have previously been
ordered against the controller or processor concerned with regard to the same subject-matter,
Compliance with those MEAaSULES} 0.0... cece cesescccceeceeeeceeeseceecseuenesaaeanaaauaeseescenseseasueeeeaaneeseneaeaaeas 30

Article 83(2)(j} GDPR: adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 GDPR or
approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42 GDPR; and...............cccccceeeeceeeeeeeeeeteees 30

Article 83(2)(k) GDPR: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances
of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from the

INFTINGEMENL. ......... ec eececccteeesscceeneuescscescaeeesseseesaasnegecessuaaeesaseeseaeseessaaesscaseesasaesenseeseeeaseesesseaunaneeses 30
M. Decisions on Whether to Impose Administrative FIN@S ..............ccccsceeesceseeceseeceecseeeeeecerevesesesees 31
Article 83(3) GDPR .........00.cccccccccccsssssecccceeesssesseaeeeseeecnceneeeesessenensaeaeeeeesessessauaeesesesesueesseeeesssesaassaeess 33
Article 83(5) GDPR..............ccccccccccccccceccscetesserecececescuenesassnseecesaaeaeseeesssssesesteseseecessesesssseseseseceseeseeceteaeees 33
N. PUPS BT PRN etic sage cgg ee tas erememe oneness sce vine oatree ce sree Cesc ere Ce vis mew a Cr ra GG Se Un AT A st Oe oe PRO 34

A. Introduction

1. This document (‘the Decision’) is a decision made by the Data Protection Commission (‘the
DPC’) in accordance with section 111 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (‘the 2018 Act’). | make
this Decision having considered the information obtained in the own volition inquiry (‘the
Inquiry’) pursuant to section 110 of the 2018 Act. A member of the inquiry team of the DPC
(‘the Case Officer’) provided Bank of Ireland Group plc (‘BOI’) with an Inquiry Issues Paper in
order to make submissions on it.

2. BOI was provided with the draft decision in this Inquiry on 25 November 2022 (the “Draft
Decision”) to provide it with a final opportunity to make submissions. BO] made submissions
on the Draft Decision on 21 December 2022. | have given full consideration to these
submissions in finalising this Decision. This Decision is being provided to BOI pursuant to
Section 116(1)(a) of the 2018 Act in order to give BOI notice of the Decision, the reasons for
it, and the corrective powers that | have decided to exercise.

3, This Decision contains corrective powers under section 115 of the 2018 Act and Article 58(2)
of the General Data Protection Regulation (‘the GDPR’) arising from the infringements which
have been identified herein. It should be noted, in this regard, that BOI is required to comply
with the corrective powers that are contained in this Decision, and it is open to this office to
serve an enforcement notice on BO! in accordance with section 133 of the 2018 Act.

B, Legal Framework for the Inquiry and the Decision

4, The GDPR is the legal regime covering the processing of personal data in the European Union.
As aregulation, the GDPR is directly applicable in EU member states. The GDPR is given further
effect in Irish law by the 2018 Act. As stated above, the Inquiry was commenced pursuant to
section 110 of the 2018 Act. By way of background in this regard, under Part 6 of the 2018
Act, the DPC has the power to commence an inquiry on foot of a complaint, or of its own

volition.

5. Section 110(1) of the 2018 Act provides that the DPC may, for the purpose of section 109(5)(e)
or section 113(2) of the 2018 Act, or of its own volition, cause such inquiry as It thinks fit to
be conducted, in order to ascertain whether an infringement has occurred or is occurring of
the GDPR or a provision of the 2018 Act, or regulation under the Act, that gives further effect
to the GDPR. Section 110(2) of the 2018 Act provides that the DPC may, for the purposes of
section 110(1), where it considers it appropriate to do so, cause any of its powers under
Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2018 Act (excluding section 135 of the 2018 Act) to be exercised
and / or cause an investigation under Chapter 5 of Part 6 of the 2018 Act to be carried out.

ii} Data Contrelier

6. In commencing the Inquiry, the DPC considered that BOI may be the controller, within the
meaning of Article 4(7) GDPR, in respect of personal data that was the subject of the personal!

data breach notifications. In this regard, BO! confirmed that it was the controller in its
notification of ten personal data breaches to the DPC between 30 January 2020 and 6 May
2020."

Legal Basis for the Decision

The decision-making process for the Inquiry which applies to this case is provided for under
section 111 of the 2018 Act, and requires that the DPC must consider the information
obtained during the Inquiry to decide whether an infringement is occurring or has occurred
and, if so, to decide on the corrective powers, if any, to be exercised. As the sole member of
the DPC as defined in section 15 of the 2018 Act, | perform this function in my role as the
decision-maker in the DPC. In so doing, | am required to assess all of the materials and
submissions gathered during the Inquiry and any other materials which | consider to be
relevant, in the course of the decision-making process.

The Inquiry Issues Paper was finalised on 26 July 2021. BOI made submissions on the Inquiry
Issues Paper on 17 August 2021. A full schedule of all documentation considered by me for
the purpose of the preparation of this Decision is appended hereto.

Having considered the information obtained in the Inquiry, | am satisfied that the Inquiry has
been correctly conducted and that fair procedures have been followed throughout. The DPC
has had regard to any submissions that BOI made in respect of the Draft Decision before
proceeding to make this Final Decision under section 111 of the 2018 Act.

C. Factual Background

10.

11.

12.

BOI provides online and phone banking services via its Banking365 service (‘Banking365’). The
associated terms and conditions of the Banking365 service state that the ‘365 online’ service
is defined as the internet banking service accessed via a web browser.”

The DPC received ten personal data breach notifications from BOI between 30 January 2020
and 6 May 2020. The data breach notifications concerned the unauthorised access to and
disclosure of personal data processed within the Banking 365 platform. In six of the ten data
breaches, unauthorised persons gained access to customers’ accounts online as a result of
staff not following BOI procedures correctly.* The remaining four data breaches, in which
unauthorised people gained access to customers’ accounts online, were as a result of a flaw
in the Customer Information System (‘CIS’). BOl was made aware of a number of cases where
customers who logged into their unique account through the Banking365 portal could view
the account transaction details of third parties.’

The DPC issued an Inquiry Commencement Letter (‘the Commencement Letter’) by email and
registered post to BOI on 12 August 2020° notifying the company that the DPC had

1 Appendix C.2 Breach Notifications With Correspondence

* Appendix C.4.18 365 Online Terms and Conditions Section 1.1 “Definitions” page 1
3 Appendix C.4.2 pages 16-18

4 Appendix C.2 Breach Notifications With Correspondence

> Appendix C.3 Commencement Letter

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

commenced an Inquiry under and in accordance with section 110(1) of the 2018 Act. The
letter contained details of the personal data breaches notified to the DPC which would be the
subject of the Inquiry and it contained seven questions seeking further information from BOI.

The decision to commence the Inquiry was taken having regard to the circumstances of
personal data breaches notified by BOI. The Commencement Letter informed BOI that the
Inquiry would examine whether or not BOI discharged its obligations in connection with the
subject matter of the personal data breaches and determine whether or not any provision(s)
of the 2018 Act and/or the GDPR had been contravened by BOI in that context. in this regard,
the scope of the Inquiry was expressly stated to include the steps taken by BOI to comply with
the principle of integrity and confidentiality pursuant to Article 32(1) GDPR among other
Articles.

The Commencement Letter set out that the Inquiry would formally document the facts as
they relate to the subject of the Inquiry. The relevant facts ascertained during the personal
data breach notification and handling process were set out in the Commencement Letter. The
facts, established during the course of the inquiry, are set out below in this Decision.

BOI provided submissions in response to the Commencement Letter on 9 September 2020. In
its submissions, BO! outlined the technical and organisational measures which BO! had in
place to meet the requirements of the GDPR. The submissions outlined policies and
procedures, staff training and quality assurance sampling in relation to data protection

governance.°

The submissions also outlined the steps that BOI has taken since the personal data breaches
in order to comply with the GDPR including details of organisational and technical measures.
The submissions appended a number of documents, which are considered throughout this

Decision.

On 8 April 2021, the Case Officer requested additional documentation related to the BOI
Banking Service Desk Procedures, Customer Verification procedures and Customer
Confidentiality Service Standards, as well as further information relating to accounts merging
issues.’ BOI provided submissions in response on 29 April 2021.°

Having received BOI’s submissions, the DPC prepared an inquiry Issues Paper to document
the relevant facts established and the issues that fell for consideration by me as Decision-
Maker for the purpose of making a decision under section 111 of the 2018 Act in respect of
this Inquiry. The Case Officer furnished BOI with the Inquiry Issues Paper on 26 July 2021° and
invited BOI’s submissions on any inaccuracies and/or incompleteness in the facts.

BOI provided comments on the Inquiry Issues Paper on 17 August 2021." The comments
included some textual amendments and supplemental information relating to the facts as set
out in the Inquiry Issues Paper. BOI’s comments were analysed and the DPC has considered

6 Appendix C.4 Submissions 9 September 2020

7 Appendix C.5 Commission Queries 8 April 2021
8 Appendix C.6 Submissions 29 April 2021

9 Appendix C.7 Issues Paper

10 Anpendix C.8 Submissions 17 August 2021

20.

21.

D

22.

23.

24.

them as part of this Decision. The data breach notifications concerned the unauthorised access
to and disclosure of personal data processed within the BOI Banking 365 (‘Banking365’)
platform. BO! were made aware of a number of cases where customers were able to log into
their unique Banking365 portal and view the details of third parties.

Six of the ten data breaches were as a result of staff not following BOI procedures correctly.
The remaining four data breaches were as a result of incorrect merging of customer accounts
due to the Nine Year Algorithm in BOI’s Customer Information System (CIS). For some of the
10 breaches, someone who was not the account holder was given full access to the BOI365
services, e.g. BN-20-2-110, BN-20-3-678, BN-20-4-12, BN-20-4-268, BN-20-4-350. Other
breaches amounted to unauthorised access/disclosure giving a view of the account
transactions to an unauthorised third party, e.g. BN-20-3-418, BN-20-4-429, BN-20-4-425
while BN-20-5-107 involved an unauthorised view of credit card details and BN-20-4-270
involved both unauthorised access and unauthorised disclosure.

| am obliged to consider all of the information obtained in the Inquiry and to reach conclusions
as to whether | identify infringements of data protection legislation. The Inquiry Issues Paper
sets out the factual background and the scope and legal basis for the Inquiry. As set out above
in Section A, this document is the Decision on this matter and it includes the corrective powers
that will be exercised arising from the infringements that are identified herein.

Scope of the Inquiry and the Application ot the GDPR

The scope of the Inquiry, which was set out in the Inquiry Commencement Letter, was to
examine whether or not BOI discharged its obligations in connection with the subject matter
of the notified personal data breaches and to determine whether or not any provision(s) of
the 2018 Act and/or the GDPR have been contravened by BOI in that context.

In this regard, the Commencement Letter specified that the Inquiry would focus on BOIl's
organisational and technical measures in place to ensure security of the personal data. In
particular, the Commencement Letter expressly stated that the scope of the Inquiry would
include Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR. The Commencement Letter stated that the Inquiry
would focus on the areas of Data Protection Governance, Training and Awareness, Records
Management and Security of Personal Data.

The material scope of the GDPR under Article 2 applies to processing of personal data. The
financial data of customers that is processed in the course of the Banking 365 service meets
the definition for personal data under Article 4(1) GDPR.

E. Submissions tn relation to the Draft Decision

25.

The Draft Decision was provided to BOI on 25 November 2022, and BOI! was requested to
furnish any submissions it wished to make to the DPC. BOI furnished its submissions in respect
of the Draft Decision on 21 December 2022 (‘BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022’). BOI stated that
its submissions were in respect of the following areas: risk; methodology for assessment;

26.

27.

likelihood of risk; severity of risk; testing, training and quality assurance; categorisation of
BOI’s actions as ‘negligent’; remedial actions; drafting and clarification points; and redaction.

| have given full consideration to BOI’s submissions in relation to the above mentioned points.

BOI also states that the “volume of data subjects using a particular access method does not
automatically increase the risks of processing activity using that method.” However, the DPC
position is that the more data subjects using a service, the more adverse impact there may
be if a breach materialises as it may affect large numbers of users.The DPC agrees with BOI
that other factors need to be taken into consideration, apart from the number of users but
the DPC disagrees it follows from this that the risk is low. High risk is also assessed by reference
to the type of personal data concerned and the context of the processing. In the context of
this inquiry, the data in customer accounts are very sensitive.

F. Issues for Determination

28.

30.

Having reviewed the Issues Paper and the other relevant materials, | consider that the key
issue in which | must make a decision is whether BOI has infringed Articles 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR
in respect of its processing of personal data via the Banking 365 Service.

\eticles 5€1)(f) and 32 GDPR

Article 5(1)(f) GDPR provides for the principle of integrity and confidentiality. It requires that
personal data shall be:

processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data,
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational

measures.
Article 32(1) GDPR provides:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk of varying
likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller
and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures
to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate:

(a) the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data,

(b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resilience of processing systems and services,

(c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely
manner in the event of a physical or technical incident;

(d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of
technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

In considering the technical and organisational measures that a controller or processor must
implement, regard must be had to a risk assessment concerning the rights and freedoms of
natural persons, the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope,

context and purposes of the processing.

Article 32(2) GDPR provides:

In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in particular of the
risks that are presented by processing, in particular from accidental or unlawful
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.

Assessment of the Risks

The level of security that controllers and processors are obliged to implement must be
appropriate to the risk posed to the rights and freedoms of natural persons by the processing.
Regarding BOI’s processing of personal data on the Banking 365 platform, those risks include
the risk of unauthorised access and unauthorised disclosure of personal data to third parties
of personal data processed within the platform.

Recital 76 GDPR provides guidance as to how risk should be evaluated:

The likelihood and severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject
should be determined by reference to the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
processing. Risk should be evaluated on the basis of an objective assessment, by which
it is established whether data processing operations involve a risk or a high risk.

It is necessary to carry out an objective assessment of the risks presented by the processing
to determine the appropriate level of security. Risk must be assessed by reference to (i) the
likelihood of the risk, and (ii) the severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural!
persons. Hence, the risk assessment for the Banking365 process must consider, first, the
likelihood of unauthorised access to, or disclosure of, customers’ accounts online, and second,
the severity of that risk in respect of the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. These
objective assessments should have been made by reference to the nature, scope, context and
purposes of the processing.

The key risk arising from this processing of customers’ personal data on the Banking365 app
was that an unauthorised person would gain access to a customer’s account and/or be able
to use any or all of the elements of the service listed below. This would result in a high risk of
fraud and/or identity theft. BO! states “there has never been an instance of fraud or identity
theft arising from these types of events”™* and therefore, “it appears that the risk of fraud
and/or identity theft is a potential harm”. However, the fact that a risk has not yet
materialised as a harm, as far as BOI is aware, does not reduce the severity of the risk itself.

41 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 5

12 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 5

37.

38.

39.

AO.

41.

42.

In fact, risk is not gauged after the event, but rather by reference to conditions before the risk

event materialised.

The risks of fraud and identity theft would severely undermine a customer’s relationship with
the bank as the relationship is premised on the agreement the bank will ensure the customers’
monies are secure and safe. In addition, the risks posed to vulnerable users are particularly
high. Such persons may lack the capacity to realise they have been subject to fraud or financial
theft.

In addition, the Banking365 app was offered as an access method for the majority of the
customer base and therefore, any breach that would occur would have potential adverse

impacts across a large user base.

Regarding how BO! evaluated the risk arising in respect of the security of personal data and,
in particular, the risk arising from how BOI provided access to the Banking 365 platform, BOI

stated that

Bank of Ireland (‘the Bank’) manages its exposure to a multitude of risks which arise in
the course of its business (including data protection and information security) in line
with the Bank’s Risk Management Framework. This Risk Management Framework
outlines the expectations of Business Units within the Bank when managing risk,
including any associated elements such as data breaches and technical/organisational
control measures.”

BOI also stated that

Risks and controls are subject to cyclical reviews, the frequency of which is dependent
on the severity and likelihood of the risk. Changes in processes or the introduction of
new services may also give rise to a risk rating review.“

BOI processes a vast quantity of personal data on the Banking 365 platform in respect of a
significant number of data subjects. The personal data processed by BOI via Banking 365
includes, among other things, customers’ account balance, information about transactions,
setting up or viewing standing orders, funds transfer and payments to other designated
accounts, bill payment and requesting account statements for current, savings and loan

accounts.

The purpose of the processing was determined by BOI in order to enhance customer
experience. The key elements of the service provided by Banking365 include enabling
customers to access account balance, get information about their transactions, set up or view
standing orders, carry out cheque searches, transfer funds and make payments, pay bills,
request account statements, top-up mobile phones, register and view other BOI accounts,
view recent credit card transactions, customise current account transaction history on screen,
show policy details, along with any additional services outlined in future terms and conditions
and any other or future services that BOI may develop or introduce.» The potential risks

13 Appendix C.4.2 page 1
14 Anpendix C.4.2 page 1
15 Appendix C.4.18 at 1.37 page 3

10

43.

Aa,

45.

associated with unauthorised persons being able to access and use another user’s account
include identity theft, fraud and financial loss.”

| find that BOI’s processing of personal data on the Banking 365 platform creates a high risk
to the rights and freedoms of natural persons in terms of severity. | acknowledge BOI’s
submissions that their assessment of the risk was low for the following reasons - the problems
being swiftly remediated on BOI’s part, there not being a deliberate attempt at fraud and
“there is often a connection between the individuals involved (e.g. same name, familial
relationship).”*” However, the risk of identity theft, fraud, financial loss and other potential
harm pertained in every case. | have also considered BOI’s submission that “the likelihood of
the risk of the issue arising is low by reference to the size of the customer base”** | do not
accept this point particularly in light of the 9 year algorithm and the potential for over-merging
of accounts. | therefore find the likelihood to be moderate in those circumstances.

Security Measures Implemented by BO!

BOI’s submissions outlined the technical and organisational measures that it had in place at
the time of the personal data breaches in order to ensure the ongoing confidentiality and
integrity of the processing of personal data on the Banking 365 platform. These measures can
be categorised within the areas of scope specified in the Commencement letter as follows:

a) Data protection governance
b) Training and awareness

c) Records management

d) Security of personal data

(a) Data protection governance

BO! outlined that it had a range of policies and procedures in relation to data protection
including the following operating procedures-

e Banking Service Desk Procedures’?

e The Business Operating Procedures - Account Conversion Procedure”
e Customer Confidentiality/Verification?*

e Customer Confidentiality Service Standards”

GE section 6.2.7 of the Banking Service Desk Procedures outlines the steps a staff member should

take to “register an account for a 365 digital channel”? i. a

16 See Recital 75 GDPR

17 Appendix C.8.2, page 1-2

18 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 5
1S Appendix C.4.3

20 Appendix C.6.2 page 7

21 Appendix C.6.2 page 10

22 Appendix C.6.2 page 10

23 Appendix C.4.3 page 3

11

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

Section 7.374 of the Banking Service Desk Procedure outlines how an adviser can add credit

card accounts to the Banking 365 platform. [ee ed

In addition, BOI issued a ‘Must Read memo’ on 9 March 2020 (prior to this breach) reminding
staff that

There are very
clear guidelines on ledger title structure in the BOP and these should be followed to
the letter...°°

(b}) Training and Awareness

BOI stated that risk event and reporting training was completed by all advisers in October
2019 by way of an audio training module.”° In this training, the primary theme was how to
identify different types of operational risk and what channels staff should use to correctly
report those risk events after they have arisen. The risk event and reporting training includes
only a brief reference to the merging of client account data.*’

BO! also stated that a ‘Reducing Errors Webinar and Workbook’ was delivered over four weeks
in November-December 2019.78 This training was designed to highlight the need to reduce
manual errors when dealing with customer information; however, the module does not make
any specific reference to the GDPR or the Data Protection Act 2018.

According to BOI, detailed Service Contact Centre Procedures are provided to staff who work
in the customer contact centre. These procedures highlight the steps to be undertaken to
ensure Banking 365 Online customers are correctly verified. Following the breaches, refresher
training was provided to staff on the relevant procedures in order to reduce the risk of errors
occurring. Risk focus memos were also issued to all Branch Network staff, reminding them of
the procedures for amending customer data.”? Data protection training and error related
training was provided for advisers working in ‘Direct Customer Contact’ centres in the twelve
months prior to September 2020. BOI also pointed out

actions taken to address performance may include refresher training sessions on
procedures, retraining, 1:1 coaching, team leader / ‘1 up’ review of activities, informal
improvement plans, formal improvement plans or disciplinary sanction.*°

24 Appendix C.6.2 page 6

25 Appendix C.6.2 page &

26 Appendix C.4.2 page 8

27 Appendix C.4.12 page 2

28 Appendix C.4.7

29 Appendix C.4.2 page 2

39 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 7

12

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

BOI submitted further training modules dated March 2020, May 2020, July 2020 and August
2020. Some of these modules, however, post-date the breaches that are the subject of
consideration in this inquiry.

BOI also stated that

In respect of the breaches that form the subject of this Inquiry, no advisor was
responsible for more than one manual error.*4

and that

Feedback was provided to all advisers where non-compliance with procedures was
identified, including details of how the error impacted the customer.

With regard to the breach caused by a staff member not adhering to Customer Verification
Procedures and Customer Confidentiality Standards, according to BOI:

thorough checks were not carried out by staff in relation to the customer.

(c) Records Management

BOI outlined that it had a range of oversight and quality assurance measures in place,*?
including-

e Quality Assurance Frameworks — this is a series of reviews and meetings which are
held within the bank on a monthly basis. The purpose of the meetings are to
review performance against key performance indicators. The BOi Controls
Operating Effectiveness (‘COE’) Team evaluate management information which
includes call monitoring. The management information is then delivered to the
framework meetings and action plans and remediation procedures are agreed.

e Call Monitoring is completed on a monthly basis. Team leaders review a minimum
of one call per agent, per month, and any errors are addressed at a monthly
coaching session.

e QA Linking Status — Daily quality assurance reviews on applications where account
linking has been requested.

e Defects Tracking — Daily reviews and monitoring of quality assurance activities to
ensure that accounts which have been linked incorrectly are remediated in an
expedient manner.

e BOI Group Internal Audit review

However, according to BOI,

31 Appendix C.9.1 page 6
32 Appendix C.9.1 page 6
33 Appendix C.4.2 pages 12-15

13

Ls BOl’s standard operating procedures are designed to ensure, in as much as

possible, no errors in terms of relevant data**

57. BO! indicated that it had a range of records management oversight measures in place to
ensure the integrity and security of customers’ personal data, including-

e Service Contact Centre Procedures — These are step by step instructions and
standard operating procedures which are circulated to all staff. BO] have provided
a copy of the procedure associated with adding account or credit card features to
the Banking 365 platform.

e Branch Operating Procedures — These are standard operating procedures in place
to provide staff guidance on how to process different customer requests,
transactions and supporting activities. These procedures are updated regularly
and are updated when new processes are introduced or where existing processes
are changed.”

58. Manual merging of customers’ accounts and records should follow the relevant procedures

and is verified by a BO! operations tearn. [iii

(d) Security of Personal Data
(i) Technical Measures

59. In addition to the policies and procedures noted above, BOI described specific technical
measures’ that it stated were in place at the time of the breach, including:

e QA Linking Status — daily quality assurance reviews on applications where account
linking has been requested.

e Defects Tracking — daily reviews and monitoring of quality assurance activities to
ensure that accounts which have been linked incorrectly are remediated in an
expedient manner.

e Security Certificates

This system, however, is entirely reliant on the fact that the recipient device or
server is the intended device or computer. If the banking customer is authorised by
the bank to view a particular account, then | their

34 Appendix C.8.2 page 3
35 Appendix C.4.2 pages 12-15
36 Appendix C.4.2 page 2
37 Appendix C.4.2 pages 12-15
38 Appendix C.4.2 page 3

14

60.

61.

62.

63.

device will enable that user to view that particular account — even if that account
was not owned by that user.

¢ BOI uses proprietary software (as which is designed to assess and flag
unusual patterns in customer access and payments.”

e Security Information and Event Management - (‘SIEM’) is used for security and event
controls and will flag if some suspicious entries are detected in banking logs. If
suspicious activity is detected then the software will automatically alert the Bank’s
IT Team.*° It is noted that SIEM failed to detect unauthorised access to the bank
accounts under consideration, as the accounts had been provisioned incorrectly
with access owing to gaps in procedures and human error.

In six of the ten data breaches, unauthorised persons gained access to customers’ accounts
online as a result of staff not following BOI procedures correctly.”

The remaining four data breaches, in which unauthorised people gained access to customers’
accounts online, were as a result of a flaw in the CIS. BOI stated that —

—————

When the Banking365 platform was launched in the late 1990s, the CIS was the basis for the

information utilised by the Banking365 platform.” 3

The impact of this is access to and potential disclosure of the affected accounts by an
unauthorised third party.

Also, the customer matching and merging process can cause — to become
‘lost’ within CIS which results in a default C= at being assigned to the customer

record. According to BOI -

a la ad

This, in turn, can result in unintended account merging, the impact of which is access to and
potential disclosure of the affected accounts by an unauthorised third party. Article 5(1)(f)
GDPR requires that personal data shall be “processed in a manner that ensures appropriate
security of the personal data”.

39 Appendix C.4.2 page 3

40 Appendix C.4.2 page 3-4

41 Appendix C.4.2 pages 16-18
42 Appendix C.4.2 page 6

43 Appendix C.4.2 page 6

44 Appendix C.4.2 page 6

4 Appendix C.4.2 page 6

15

64.

65.

66.

According to BOI the issue with the CIS

was originally identified in 2019, following a BO! Group Internal Audit (GIA) review,
which predated the inquiry.”

BOI! stated that from March 2021 it carried out an analysis of cases where over-merging may
have occurred. According to BOI these cases-

have been categorised into 3 Priority Cohorts. Priority 1 (349 cases) contain the
potential over-merges, Priority 2 (2,222 cases) possible over-merges, Priority 3 (2,007
cases) low possibility over-merges. *”

in addition, BOI stated that-

A review of all cases, and remediation of all identified over-merges is to complete by
the end September. Full closure of the over-merging issue, including customer
communications and restitution where required, is expected by end of November
ey oe

BOI stated that-

la]s of 26th February 2021 eae iw has been removed and the
system now requires an exact [EEE match.”

BOI also stated that it had

developed a systemic remediation process to prevent further over-merging occurring
in the future.>°

(ii) Oraanisational Measures

BOI outlined that it had a range of organisational measures relating to security,” including
the following-

¢ Clean Desk Procedures — This outlines the physical measures associated with the
management of customer information, and includes measures such as the use of
locked cabinets and secure shredding bins.

e Physical Access — These are additional physical security measures which prevent
unauthorised access to restricted areas. These measures are reviewed annually.

e Group Code of Conduct — The code encompasses the principles of the Irish Banking
Federation Code of Ethics, and sets out acceptable standards for group employees
who deal with customers, suppliers, Government representatives or Regulators. A

46 Appendix C.8.2 page 2
47 Appendix C.8.2 page 2
48 Appendix C.8.2. page 3
49 Appendix C.6.2 page 3
°° Appendix C.8.2 page 3
51 Appendix C.4.2 page 13-14

16

67.

68.

69.

70.

mandatory annual web based training course on the Code of Conduct is undertaken
by all staff.

BO! also pointed out that over the course of 2021 “as part of the Bank’s Central Credit Register
(‘CCR’) Data Protection Action Plan”>? BOI put in place a number of actions including an
improved Group Data Management Policy and Standards, an Enhanced Group Data
Management Operating Model and a revised Data Protection Event Framework. While the
DPC welcomes these improvements and enhancements, they fall outside the temporal scope
of this inquiry.

The Appropriate Level of Security
(a) Measures to evaluate the effectiveness of data protection governance

Article 32(1)(d) GDPR specifies that, where appropriate, the controller shall implement
technical and organisational measures to include a process for regularly testing, assessing and
evaluating the effectiveness of existing security measures. Such testing, assessing and
evaluating applies to both technical and organisational measures. Personal data breaches may
cause significant harm to data subjects and, pursuant to Article 32(1)(d) GDPR, controllers
must take the initiative to test, assess, and evaluate their organisational and technical security

measures.

Six of the ten reported data breaches were as a result of staff not following the Banking
Service Desk Procedures, of which one was as a result of not following the Business Operating
Procedures, and one as a result of not following Customer Verification procedures and
Customer Confidentiality Service Standards. However, the procedure extract? submitted by
BO! does not indicate if there are any additional alerts or controls to prevent human error or

an incorrect account from being added.

BOI had a range of Data Protection Governance policies and procedures in place to ensure the
integrity and security of customers’ personal data. However, these policies and procedures
did not include additional controls to minimise the possibility of human error occurring. While
there were follow-ups on the part of BOI with regard to breaches caused by staff not following
policies and procedures, | consider that the checks and enforcement measures in place were
inadequate. Creating policies and procedures is essential to implementing an appropriate
level of security. However, policies and procedures alone are not sufficient to mitigate the risk
to data subjects. Where staff manually populate user fields to permit users to access their
sensitive personal data, such as financial transactions, there is an obligation on a controller to
regularly assess and evaluate the effectiveness of measures in place and therefore, there must
be an ongoing and verifiable oversight of how the staff members give effect to the controller’s
policies and procedures. | have had regard to BOI’s monthly call monitoring whereby Team
leaders review a minimum of one call per agent, per month, and that any errors are addressed
at a monthly coaching session. | find that this level of testing was not appropriate to the risk.
Considering the importance of maintaining the security of customers’ accounts and the high

2 Appendix C.9.1 BO! Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 8

53 Appendix C.4.3

17

71.

72.

73.

risks to the customer arising as a result of accounts being compromised, BO! ought to have
implemented more robust testing measures, | therefore find BOI infringed Article 5(1)(f) and
Article 32 GDPR by failing to implement more robust testing measures.

(b) Effectiveness of Training and Awareness

In general, training needs to be frequent, regular and appropriate to the activities being
carried out. The sensitivity of the data processed by BOI, the detailed nature of its Service
Contact Centre Procedures and the manual population of user fields by staff which permits
users to access their sensitive personal data means that training should be provided to staff
frequently and in great detail in order to reduce the likelihood of manual errors leading to
loss of confidentiality of personal data, as occurred in six of the ten breaches.

Training should also be informed by the risks arising from the processing activities, as outlined
in risk assessments and should be regularly updated as the risk landscape changes. The
unintended merging of customer accounts was identified as a contributing factor in relation
to the unauthorised disclosure of account information. This account merging issue was
originally identified by BO! in 2019. However, the Risk Event Audio Training module in October
2019, while it did cover data protection breaches and there was specific reference made to
the merging of client data, the issue was not explained to staff in detail. | find that the level
and frequency of staff training provided was not appropriate to the risk. Considering the
importance of maintaining the security of customers’ accounts and the high risks to the
customer arising as a result of unauthorised disclosure, BOI ought to have implemented more
frequent and detailed training provisions and | find BOI infringed Article 5(1)(f) and Article
32(1) by failing to do so.

Records Management

BOI had a range of Data Protection Governance policies and procedures in place to ensure the
integrity and security of customers’ personal data. However, these policies and procedures
did not include additional controls to prevent human error. While there were follow-ups on
the part of BOI with regard to breaches caused by staff not following policies and procedures,
| consider that the checks and enforcement measures in place were inadequate. Creating
policies and procedures is essential to implementing an appropriate level of security.
However, policies and procedures alone are not sufficient to mitigate the risk to data subjects.
Where staff manually populate user fields to permit users to access their sensitive personal
data, such as financial transactions, there is an obligation on a controller to regularly assess
and evaluate the effectiveness of measures in place and therefore, there must be an ongoing
and verifiable oversight of how the staff members give effect to the controller’s policies and
procedures. | have had regard to BOI’s monthly call monitoring whereby Team leaders review
a minimum of one call per agent, per month, and that any errors are addressed at a monthly
coaching session. | find that this level of testing was not appropriate to the risk and that it
infringed Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) GDPR by failing to implement adequate testing.

(c) Technical Measures

18

fi) Testing Security of Personal Data

74. Article 5(1)(f) GDPR provides for the principle of integrity and confidentiality. It requires that
personal data shall be “processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the
personal data.” An appropriate level of security includes technical measures that have, inter
alia, the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of
processing systems and services, as Article 32(1)(b) provides. The issues with the CIS,

introduced a risk of
over-merging of customer accounts and thus, allowing unauthorised access to customers’
financial data. BOI first identified the over merging issue in July 2019 and took steps to analyse
potential invalidly merged accounts from March 2021 onwards, and where appropriate, to
rectify them. This rectification could have been implemented in a more timely fashion in
response to the risks first identified by BOI’s internal GIA audit in July 2019, which is prior to
the occurrence of the personal data breaches examined in this inquiry. There was a twenty
one month gap between BOI identifying the over merging issue on the CIS, via its internal
audit in 2019, and providing a final technical fix.

75. Upon becoming aware of the issue of account merging, BOI did not take immediate effective
steps to prevent ongoing data breaches that arose from the same issue. BOI points out that it

has

developed a systemic remediation process to prevent over-merging occurring in future.
This process includes two “Day 2 reports”, which have been deployed daily since July
2020.74

However, the ten breaches occurred between February and May 2020. This represents a
failure on BOI’s part to implement appropriate organisational security measures to identify
the security issues or to take more timely mitigation to remediate the identified issues. When
the coding error was discovered, BOI ought to have had measures in place to ensure the error
was rectified quickly. A twenty one month delay is an unacceptably long rectification time, in
particular for a coding error of this gravity. Therefore, | consider that the technical security
measures in place at the time of the breach did not meet the standard required by the GDPR.

76. BOI also failed to perform sufficient testing on merged accounts. BOI points out that it has

oversight controls in place with its centralised account opening team whereby all
account openings {i.e. 100% of all accounts opened by customers with BO!) are

reviewed by management.”

However, this applies to account openings, not account merging. Meanwhile, BOI’s QA
Procedures (10% sampling of merge) states that only 10% of merges are checked by random
sampling.” | find this is an insufficiently low volume of testing considering the grave security

54 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 8
55 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 8
°° Appendix C.4.5

19

risks that can result from such merging such as an unauthorised person accessing an account.
| find BOI infringed Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) GDPR by failing to implement this testing.

(i) Organisational Measures
77. BOI was aware of the issue of concern with the CIS as it was originally identified in 2019 by a

Group Internal Audit. However, nine out of the ten data breaches were notified to BOI by
either a data subject or a third party, rather than through follow up action to eliminate the
impact identified in the BOI audit. This indicates that BOI was not carrying out appropriate
testing or organisational measures as the breaches were reported by a data subject or a third
party, as opposed to being identified by internal testing.

78. BOI states that

In October 2022, with a view to improving the effectiveness of measures in place and
oversight, the teams for errors management assurance, data management and data
remediation for the retail division were consolidated under single management within
retail risk management partners.°”

While the DPC welcomes this measure, it was not in place prior to, or at the time of the
breaches, which are the subject of this inquiry.

79. The sequence of breaches indicates a failure to act to adjust the effectiveness of ongoing
technical and organisational measures on becoming aware of earlier breaches in order to
adequately mitigate the risks. The Article 32(1)(d) GDPR requirement for regularly testing,
assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of the measures must be matched to a requirement
pursuant to Article 32(1)(b) to take new measures when the existing measures are shown to
be ineffective. Therefore, the oversight measures demonstrated by BOI did not meet the
standard required by the GDPR. i therefore find BOI infringed Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)
GDPR by failing to have adequate oversight measures in place.

H, Findings
80. For the reasons set out above, | find that BOI

e infringed the principle of integrity and confidentiality of Article 5(1)(7) GDPR by failing
to ensure appropriate security of the personal data related to accounts of its
customers using appropriate technical and organisational measures and

e infringed Article 32(1) GDPR by failing to implement appropriate technical and
organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk
presented by its processing of personal data within the BOI Banking 365 platform.

>” Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 6

20

|

81.

82.

a3.

34.

85.

86.

87.

Decision on Corrective Powers

| have set out above, pursuant to section 111(1)(a) of the 2018 Act, my decision to the effect
that BOI has infringed Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR.

Under section 111(2) of the 2018 Act, where the DPC makes a decision (in accordance with
section 111(1)(a), it must, in addition, make a decision as to whether a corrective power
should be exercised in respect of the controiler or processor concerned and, if so, the
corrective power to be exercised. The remaining question for determination in this Decision
is whether or not any of those infringements merit the exercise of any of the corrective
powers set out in Article 58(2) GDPR and, if so, which corrective powers.

Article 58(2) GDPR sets out the corrective powers that supervisory authorities may exercise
in respect of non-compliance by a controller or processor. In deciding whether to exercise
those powers, Recital 129 provides guidance as follows:

..each measure should be appropriate, necessary and proportionate in view of ensuring
compliance with this Regulation, taking into account the circumstances of each individual

CQSE...

Having carefully considered the infringements identified in this Decision, | have decided to
exercise certain corrective powers in accordance with section 115 of the 2018 Act and Article
58(2) GDPR. In summary, the corrective powers that | have decided are appropriate to address
the infringements in the particular circumstances are:

a. Anorder pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR to BOI to bring its processing operations
into compliance with the GDPR in the manner specified below;

b. Areprimand to BOI pursuant to Article 58(2)(b) GDPR; and
c. One administrative fine of €750,000 for infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR.*°

| set out further detail below in respect of each of these corrective powers and the reasons
why | have decided to exercise them.

rder to Bring Processing into Compliance

Article 58(2)(d) GDPR provides that a supervisory authority shail have the power

to order the controller or processor to bring processing operations into compliance with
the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a

specified period

In circumstances where | have found that the processing at issue was not in compliance with
the GDPR, | make an order pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR. Therefore, | order BOI to bring

8 Bol Group worldwide annual turnover 2021 was €2,855M (See Bank of Ireland Group pic Annual Report 2021). Net
Interest Income €2,219M + Total Business Income €636M = Total: €2,855M. 2% of this figure amounts to €57.1M. 4% of
this figure amounts to €114.2M.

21

the relevant processing into compliance with Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR in the terms set
out in the table below through implementing appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks.

88. It is my view that these orders are appropriate, necessary and proportionate in view of
ensuring compliance with Articles 5(1){f) and 32(1} GDPR. In this regard, | acknowledge BOI’s
on-going remedial actions, as outlined in submissions throughout the Inquiry.

89. The orders | am imposing are set out in the following table:

BOI is required to confirm to
the DPC within 90 days of
receiving this Decision that

this order has been complied

with.

Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR
Lack of robust validation procedures and quality
assurance controls.

| order BOI to upgrade its validation controls in

relation to data input by staff, as well as data in the
CIS, in order to ensure the integrity, confidentiality
and security of that data relating to BOI’s obligations

under Article 5(1)(f).

| order BOI to implement quality assurance controls
to ensure this upgraded procedure is followed
relating to BOI!’s obligations under Article 32(1).

BOI is required to confirm to
the DPC within 90 days of
receiving this Decision that

this order has been complied

with.

Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR
Lack of emphasis in training materials on the
importance of regular data protection and awareness
training to staff, as well as training related to merging
client data and how to prevent manual errors
relating to BOI’s obligations under Article 5(1)(f)..

| order BOI to implement relevant training for staff
relating to BO!’s obligations under Article 32(1) GDPR.

BOI is required to confirm to
the DPC within 90 days of
receiving this Decision that

this order has been complied

with.

Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR
Lack of robust testing measures

| order BOI to implement appropriate testing
measures so as to reduce the risk of further coding
errors occurring with the Banking 365 Service relating
to BOI’s obligations under Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1)
GDPR.
Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR
Lack of emphasis on remediating errors quickly

BO! is required to confirm to
the DPC within 90 days of
receiving this Decision that

this order has been complied

with.

| order BOI to implement a process which ensures

that any coding errors discovered in relation to the
Banking 365 Service which allow unauthorised access
to customer accounts are remediated without delay

22

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

96.

relating to BOI’s obligations under Articles 5(1)(f} and
32(1) GDPR.

My decision to impose the orders is made to ensure that full effect is given to BOI’s obligations
under Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR. | consider that these orders are appropriate, necessary
and proportionate in view of ensuring compliance with the GDPR.

| consider that these orders are necessary to ensure that full effect is given to BOI’s obligations
in relation to the data security infringements outlined above, having particular regard to the
high quantity, highly sensitive personal data of data subjects processed by BOI via Banking365.

The substance of these orders is the only way in which the defects pointed out in this Decision
can be rectified, which is essential to the protection of the rights of data subjects. It is on this
basis that | am of the view that this power should be imposed.

Having regard to the non-compliance identified in this Decision, in my view, such orders are
proportionate and are the minimum orders required in order to guarantee that compliance
will take place in the future. | am satisfied that the orders are a necessary and proportionate

action.

| therefore require BOI to comply with the above orders within the time specified from the
date of notification of this decision. Further to this, | require BOI to submit a report to the DPC
within a further month detailing the actions it has taken to comply with the orders.

I? OPS ON
me asi Tana

Article 58(2}{b) GDPR provides that a supervisory authority shall have the power

to issue reprimands to a controller or a processor where processing operations have
infringed provisions of this Regulation

| issue BO! with a reprimand in respect of its infringements of Article 5(1)(f} and Article 32(1)
GDPR identified in this Decision. The purpose of the reprimand is to dissuade non-compliance
with the GDPR. The infringements contributed to a higher risk of fraud and financial loss in
respect of the data subjects. Reprimands are appropriate in respect of such non-compliance
in order to formally recognise the serious nature of the infringements and to dissuade such
non-compliance. The reprimand is necessary and proportionate in addition to the order in
Part | of this Decision. While the order would require specific remedial action on the part of
BOI, the reprimand formally recognises the serious nature of these infringements. | consider
that it is appropriate to formally recognise the serious nature of the infringements with a
reprimand in order to deter future similar non-compliance by BOI and other controilers or
processors carrying out similar processing operations. By formally recognising the serious
nature of the infringements, the reprimand will contribute to ensuring that BOI and other
controllers and processors take appropriate steps in relation to current and future processing
operations in order to comply with their obligations with regard to the security of personal
data.

23

L

97.

98.

99.

100.

Administrative Fines

Article 58(2)(i) GDPR provides that a supervisory authority shall have the power

to impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or instead of
measures referred to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of each individual

case

This makes clear that the DPC may impose administrative fines in addition to, or instead of,
the order and reprimand also imposed in this Decision. Section 115 of the 2018 Act mirrors
this by providing that the DPC may do either or both of imposing an administrative fine and
exercising any other corrective power specified in Article 58(2) GDPR.

Article 83(1) GDPR provides:

Fach supervisory authority shall ensure that the imposition of administrative fines
pursuant to this Article in respect of infringements of this Regulation referred to in
paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall in each individual case be effective, proportionate and

dissuasive.

Article 83(2) GDPR provides that when deciding whether to impose an administrative fine and
deciding on the amount of the administrative fine in each individual case, due regard shall be

given to the following:

(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects
affected and the level of damage suffered by them;

(b) the intentional or negligent character of the infringement;

(c) any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the damage suffered by

data subjects;

(d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into account
technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25

and 32;
(e) any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor;

(f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

(q) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

(h) the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory authority, in
particular whether, and if so to what extent, the controller or processor notified the

infringement;

24

(i) where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have previously been ordered against the
controller or processor concerned with regard to the same subject-matter,
compliance with those measures;

(i) adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 or approved
certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42; and

(k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from
the infringement.

101. The decision as to whether to impose an administrative fine in respect of an infringement is a
cumulative decision which is taken having had regard to all of the factors as set out in Article
83{2)(a) to (k) GDPR. Therefore, | will now proceed to consider each of these factors in turn in
respect of each of the individual infringements identified in this Decision respectively.

102. In applying the Article 83(2)(a) to (k) GDPR factors to the infringements, | have set out below
my analysis of the infringements collectively, where it is possible to do so. Regardless of
whether the analysis below is individual or collective in respect of a particular factor or
infringement, | have considered the infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR and the infringement
of Article 32(1) GDPR separately when deciding whether to impose an administrative fine in
respect of each infringement. | have made a separate decision on each infringement, and |
have made each decision without prejudice to any factors arising in respect of the other
infringement. For the avoidance of doubt, my decision as to whether to impose an
administrative fine in respect of each infringement, and the amount of that fine where
applicable, is independent and specific to the circumstances of each particular infringement.
In its submission, BOI wished it stated that “BO/ has reserved its position in relation to Article
83(3) GDPR.”°°

Article 83(2)(a}) GDPR: the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into
account the nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of
data subiects affected and the level of damage suffered by them:

103. ‘In considering the nature, gravity and duration of BOI’s infringements, | have had regard to
the analysis in Part F of this Decision concerning the nature, scope, context and purposes of
the processing. Article 83(2){a) GDPR requires that | have due regard to the nature, gravity
and duration of the infringement. Article 83(2)(a) GDPR also requires me to have due regard
to the number of data subjects affected by the infringement and the level of damage suffered

by them.

104. Therefore, | will first consider these issues before proceeding to consider the nature, gravity
and duration of the infringements.

105. _—‘ The key risk arising from this processing was that an unauthorised person could gain access
to a customer’s account and/or be able to use any or all of the elements of the service listed

>? Anpendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 15

25

106.

107.

108.

above. This would result in a high risk of fraud and/or identity theft which would severely
undermine a customer’s relationship with the bank and pose a particularly high risk to
vulnerable users. In addition, because the Banking365 app was offered as an access method
for the majority of the customer base, the likelihood of any error resulting in a personal data
breach was higher. Ten data subjects were affected by the personal data breaches considered
in this Decision through having their personal data erroneously disclosed to unauthorised

people.

BOI’s infringement of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR includes the failure to ensure
appropriate security of the data and failure to implement technical and organisational
measures appropriate to the level of risk incurred to data subjects as a result of BOI’s
processing of personal data on Banking365. BOI failed to implement measures that ought to
have been in place in order to protect the rights and freedoms of each data subject from the
start of the temporal scope. The failure to implement the necessary safeguards in an effective
manner at the appropriate time led to customers’ personal data being erroneously disclosed
to unauthorised people.

In assessing the level of damage suffered by the data subjects, | have had regard to the loss
of control suffered by them over their personal data. The personal data affected by the
breaches included sensitive financial and economic personal data, which are private matters
kept strictly confidential by most people.

In assessing the level of damage for the purpose of Article 83(2)(a) GDPR, it is therefore
appropriate that | have regard to the likely level of damage suffered by data subjects
(including non-material damage).

The nature of the infringements

109.

The nature of BOI’s infringements of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR concern its failure to
implement appropriate measures designed to implement data-protection principles in an
effective manner; and to integrate appropriate technical and organisational measures,
including training, to ensure that personal data are not made accessible, without the
individual’s intervention, to unauthorised natural persons. Having regard to the nature and
scope of the data processing, | consider that this failure to implement appropriate measures
by BOI to be serious.

The gravity of the infringements

110.

In assessing the gravity of the infringements, | have had regard to the number of data subjects
affected and the level of damage suffered by them. The breaches affected 10 data subjects,
that BOI is aware of; however, potentially a much wider range of BOI customers were at risk.
| note that BOI pointed out that“/nJone of the 136 customers affected by over-merging
suffered any financial loss as a result of the error.”®° | have also had regard to how the
infringements increased the risks posed by the processing to the rights and freedoms of BOI
Banking365 users. These risks include the risk of unauthorised access and unauthorised

5° Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 13

26

disclosure of personal data to third parties of personal data processed within the platform, as
well as the risk of fraud and financial loss.

111. In those circumstances, | find that the gravity of BOI’s failure to implement appropriate
technical and organisational measures that were sufficient to ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risk is serious.

The duration of the infringements

112. The duration of BOl’s infringements of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR regarding the
processing commenced at the application of the GDPR on 25 May 2018. The obligation to
implement the appropriate organisational and technical measures required by these Articles
applied from 25 May 2018. The infringement was ongoing from the application of the GDPR
until the commencement of this inquiry (the temporal scope). Therefore, for the purposes of
deciding whether to impose an administrative fine, and for calculating the appropriate
amount if applicable, the DPC proceeds on the basis that the infringement under Articles
5(1){f) and 32(1) GDPR lasted at least from 25 May 2018 until the Commencement of this
inquiry on 12 August 2020.

Article 83(2)(b) GDPR: the intentional or negligent character of the infringement:

113. In assessing the character of the infringement, i note that the GDPR does not identify the
factors that need to be present in order for an infringement to be classified as either
‘intentional’ or ‘negligent’. The WP29 considered this in its ‘Guidelines on the application and
setting of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (the ‘Administrative
Fines Guidelines’) as follows:

in general, “intent” includes both knowledge and wilfulness in relation to the
characteristics of an offence, whereas “unintentional” means that there was no intention
to cause the infringement although the controller/processor breached the duty of care
which is required in the law.7

114. The Guidelines proceed to detail how supervisory authorities should determine whether
wilfulness or negligence was present in a particular case:

The relevant conclusions about wilfulness or negligence will be drawn on the basis of
identifying objective elements of conduct gathered from the facts of the case.

115. In determining whether an infringement was intentional, | must determine whether the
objective elements of conduct demonstrate both knowledge and wilfulness in respect of the
characteristics of the infringement at the time under consideration.

116. = In determining whether an infringement was negligent, | must determine whether, despite
there being no knowledge and wilfulness in respect of the characteristics of the infringement,
the objective elements of conduct demonstrate that the controller ought to have been aware
in the circumstances that it was falling short of the duty owed at the time under consideration.

61 ¢,9.2, page 11.
62 €.9.2, page 12.

27

For the avoidance of doubt, the DPC is solely considering whether the infringements are
negligent by reference and within the meaning of Article 83(2)(b) GDPR.

117. As compliance with the GDPR Articles is measured in terms of compliance with clear
obligations on controllers and processors, to find any infringement there must have been
either an intentional or a negligent failure to meet those obligations. If the infringement has
an intentional character then it indicates a more serious infringement and if it has a negligent
character then it has a lower severity.

118.  BOl’s infringement of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR regarding the processing, concerns its
failure to implement appropriate measures to implement data protection principles in an
effective manner and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing. Hence, the
characteristics of this infringement concerns that lack of appropriate technical and
organisational measures for the duration of the infringement. In order to classify these
infringements as intentional, | must be satisfied that (i) BOI wilfully omitted to implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures and (ii) that it knew at the time that the
measures that it implemented were not sufficient to meet the standards required by Articles
5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR.

119. Having considered the objective elements of BOI’s conduct, as set out above, there is evidence
that BOI knew that its measures were not sufficient in respect of the need to implement the
data protection principles in an effective manner. Despite knowledge of ongoing data
breaches, it is apparent that the measures implemented were ineffective until the end of the
temporal scope, including a 21 month delay in successfully implementing the technical fix
required for the CIS. | note BOI’s statement that this delay was partly as a result of “the impact
of COVID-19 in this time period and the caution required for technical changes to our core
system.” | do not consider that BOI wilfully omitted to implement appropriate measures.
While BOI’s attempts to implement appropriate measures were not sufficient for the
purposes of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR), | do not consider that this failure was wilful on
BOI’s part. However, it is clear that BOI ought to have been aware that it was falling short of
the duty owed under Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR. | find that BOI’s failure to implement
appropriate measures pursuant to Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR in respect of its processing
was negligent in the circumstances.

Article 83(2)(c) GDPR: any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the
damage suffered by data subiects;

120. Section E of this Decision outlines the mitigating measures that BOI put in place after it
discovered the data breaches. | note that according to BOI

a comprehensive investigation was carried out by the Bank into over-merging with all
potential and possible cases being identified and reviewed on a case by case basis."

Once appropriate measures were fully implemented, the particular breaches were
prevented. However, it took over two years from discovery of the issues with the CIS for the

63 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 7
4 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 13

28

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

errors caused by these issues to be be fully remediated, bearing in mind the impact of Covid-
19 and the complexity of the issue as pointed out by BOI in their December 2022 submission.
| also note that “no instances of fraud or identity theft have been identified to date”® by BOI.
Howover, it is not always possible to retrospectively apply mitigation that will effectively
correct a past lack of control, as personal data has already been breached and data subjects
may already have suffered consequential damage as a result.

| note that the above actions by BOI may have reduced the probability of further breaches
causing additional risk of damage to data subjects after the infringements occurred for the
purpose of Article 83(2)(c) GDPR. Having regard to these actions for the purpose of Article
83(2)(c) GDPR, | am of the view that the actions provided limited mitigation of the damage to
data subjects, and accordingly | consider that the actions are of mitigating value.

Article 83({2}(d) GDPR: the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into
account technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles

25 and 32 GDPR;

The Administrative Fines Guidelines set out that:

The question that the supervisory authority must then answer is to what extent the
controller “did what it could be expected to do” given the nature, the purposes or the size
of the processing, seen in light of the obligations imposed on them by the Regulation.°

Article 25 is not within the scope of this inquiry.

| have found that BO! infringed Article 32(1) GDPR (as weil as Article 5(1)(f) GDPR) regarding
its processing of personal data via the Banking365 app. | consider that BOI holds a high degree
of responsibility for this infringement and that the absence of sufficiently robust technical and
organisational measures must be deterred. It is clear that BOI did not do “what it could be
expected to do” in the circumstances assessed in this Decision.

Article 83(2)(e} GDPR: any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor;

BOI was fined, reprimanded and ordered to bring its processing into compliance in March
2022 for infringments of Article 32(1) GDPR, as well as Articles 33 and 34 GDPR.

Article 83(2)(f) GDPR: the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order to
remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement:

BOI submitted breach notification forms in respect of the personal data breaches to the DPC
and gave updates regarding BOlI’s progress in remediating the breaches. | acknowledge BOI’s
cooperation with the DPC during the course of the Inquiry and | also note that this co-
operation was of “a timely, collaborative and forthcoming” nature.*’ However, | note that BOI

5 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 13

66 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party ‘WP253:Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines for the
purposes of Regulation 2016/679’ (endorsed by EDPB) at page 13. Note that new EDPB Guidelines 04/2022 have been
published which cite the previous WP253 Guidelines. After public consultation, submissions on the revised Guidelines are
currently (November 2022) under consideration by the EDPB.

°7 Appendix C.9.1 BOI Submission 21 Dec 2022, page 14

Pa

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

was, in any event, under a duty, in light of Article 31 GDPR, to cooperate, on request, with the
supervisory authority in the performance of Its tasks.

! wish to note that the measures implemented by BOI as part of their Group Internal Audit
which first identified the issue with the CIS in 2019 and the steps taken by BOI to remediate
the infringement. However, | note that it is not possible to fully remediate the adverse effects
on BOI365 users (in terms of the previous lack of control over personal data leading to
unauthorised disclosure).

Article 83(2)(2) GDPR: the categories of personal data affected by the infringement:

The personal data affected by the infringement included sensitive financial and economic
personal data. These personal data, by their nature, carry a risk with regard to the
fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, in particular in relation to financial fraud
and/or identity theft.

Article 83(2)(h} GDPR: the manner in which the infringement became known to the
supervisory authority, in particular whether, and if so to what extent, the controller or
processor notified the infringement:

BOI reported the existence of the personal data breaches to the DPC without undue delay.
However, BOI’s compliance with its own obligation to notify personal data breaches under
Article 33(1) GDPR cannot be considered mitigating in respect of the infringements of Articles
5(1)(f), and 32(1) GDPR.

BOI also co-operated with the DPC in sending particulars of the technical and organisational
measures in place at the time of the personal data breach when requested to do so by the
DPC.

Article 83({2){i}) GDPR: where measures referred to in Article 58(2) GDPR have previously
been ordered against the controller or processor concerned with regard to the same
subject-matter, compliance with those measures;

Corrective powers have not previously been ordered against BOI with regard to the subject
matter of this Decision.

Article 83(2)(i) GDPR: adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 GDPR

or approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42 GDPR; and
Such considerations do not arise in this case.

Article 83(2)(k) GDPR: anv other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, from the infringement.

| am of the view that there are no other aggravating or mitigating factors in respect of the
infringements of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR.

30

M. Decisions on Whether to Impose Administrative Fines

134.

135.

136.

In deciding whether to impose an administrative fine in respect of the infringement of Articles
5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR, | have had regard to the factors outlined in Article 83(2)(a) —(k) GDPR
cumulatively, as set out above. | have also had regard to the effect of the order and reprimand
imposed in ensuring compliance with the GDPR. The order will assist in ensuring compliance
by mandating specific action on the part of BOI in order to re-establish compliance. The
reprimand will contribute towards dissuading future non-compliance by formally recognising
the serious nature of the infringements. However, | consider that these measures alone are
not sufficient in the circumstances to ensure compliance. | find that an administrative fine in
respect of the infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR is appropriate, necessary and
proportionate in view of ensuring compliance with the GDPR.

In order to ensure compliance with the GDPR, it is necessary to dissuade non-compliance.
Depending on the circumstances of each individual case, dissuading non-compliance can
entail dissuading the entity concerned with the corrective measures, or dissuading other
entities carrying out similar processing operations, or both. Where a serious infringement of
the GDPR occurs, a reprimand may not be sufficient to deter future non-compliance. In this
regard, by imposing financial penalties, administrative fines are effective in dissuading non-
compliance. This is recognised by the requirement in Article 83(1) GDPR for a fine, when
imposed, to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Recital 148 GDPR acknowledges that,
depending on the circumstances of each individual case, administrative fines may be
appropriate in addition to, or instead of, reprimands and other corrective powers:

In order to strengthen the enforcement of the rules of this Regulation, penalties, including
administrative fines should be imposed for any infringement of this Regulation, in addition
to, or instead of appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory authority pursuant to
this Regulation. In a case of a minor infringement or if the fine likely to be imposed would
constitute a disproportionate burden to a natural person, a reprimand may be issued

instead of a fine.

While the order to bring processing into compliance imposed in this Decision will re-establish
compliance with the GDPR with respect to the infringements identified, | do not consider this
measure appropriate to deter other future serious infringements. While the reprimand will
assist in dissuading BOI and other entities from similar future non-compliance, in light of the
seriousness of the infringements, | do not consider that the reprimand alone is proportionate
or effective to achieve this end. | find that an administrative fine is necessary in respect of the
infringement of Article 5(1)(f) to deter other future serious non-compliance on the part of BOI
and other controllers or processors carrying out similar processing operations. The reasons

for this finding include:

(1) The infringement of Articles 5(1)(f) is serious in nature and gravity as set out pursuant to

Article 83(2)(a) GDPR. Infringements that are of a serious nature and gravity must be
strongly dissuaded both in respect of the individual controller and in respect of other
entities carrying out similar processing. Data subjects’ financial information was accessed
by unauthorised people and the data subjects were exposed to the risks of fraud, |

eH

Isis

(4)

(5)

consider that BOI’s non-compliance with its security obligations under these Articles
must be strongly dissuaded. Such dissuasive effect is crucial for protecting the rights and
freedoms of those data subjects. Therefore, | consider that an administrative fine is
appropriate and necessary in order to dissuade non-compliance.

Having regard to the nature, gravity and duration of the infringements, | also consider
that administrative fines are proportionate in the circumstances in view of ensuring
compliance. The loss of control suffered by the data subjects as a result of BOI’s
infringement of Article 5(1)(f) caused data breaches which affected 10 data subjects. |
consider that the unauthorised access to financial data constitutes significant damage in
the circumstances. In light of this damage, | consider that a fine is proportionate to
responding to BOl’s infringement of Article 5(1)(f) with a view to ensuring future
compliance. | consider that fine does not exceed what is necessary to enforce compliance
in respect of the infringements identified in this Decision.

| consider that the negligent character (within the meaning of Article 83(2)(b) GDPR) of
BOl’s infringement of Articles 5(1)(f} GDPR carries weight when considering whether to
impose an administrative fine, and if so, the amount of the fine. For example, there was
an approximately two year gap between BOI identifying the overmerging issue on the CiS,
via its internal audit, and providing a final technical fix.

| consider that the administrative fine would help to ensure that BOI and other similar
controllers take the necessary action to ensure the utmost care is taken to avoid
infringements of the GDPR in respect of users’ data. In these particular circumstances
where the categories of users’ data affected by BOl’s infringements carry a risk with
regard to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, in particular in relation
to identity theft and fraud, | consider that an administrative fine is appropriate.

| have given regard to the relatively low number of notified breaches in relation to the
number of BOI’s customers. | have also had regard to the actions taken by BOI in order to
minimise further breaches (as assessed above pursuant to Articles 83(2}(c) and (f) GDPR).
| consider that these factors mitigated the damage to data subjects to an extent, and
remedied the infringements to an extent. | have therefore taken these mitigating actions
into account when calculating the administrative fine. However, despite these factors, |
consider that an administrative fine is appropriate, necessary and proportionate in
respect of these infringements in order to ensure compliance with the GDPR. While the
lack of previous relevant infringements is a mitigating factor, | consider that the need to
dissuade non-compliance of this nature far outweighs the mitigation applied for this
factor. Furthermore, despite the actions taken to mitigate against further breaches, the
damage suffered as a result of the infringements has not been significantly mitigated for
the affected data subjects. In light of the negligent character of the infringements, and
BOl’s failure to comply with its obligations with regard to data protection, | consider that
a dissuasive administrative fine is necessary in the circumstances to ensure future

compliance

Based on the analysis | have set out above, | impose the following administrative fine:

32

138.

139.

140.

141.

142.

143.

144.

145.

1) In respect of BOI’s infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR regarding the processing, |
impose a fine of €750,000.

In the Draft Decision, | proposed a fining range of between €500,000 and €900,000 for BOI’s
infringement of Article 5{1)(f). Having considered BOI’s submissions | consider that €750,000
is an appropriate figure.

In having determined the quantum of the fine above, | have taken account of the requirement,
set out in Article 83(1) GDPR, for fines imposed to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive
in each individual case. My view is that, in order for any fine to be effective, it must reflect the
circumstances of the individual case. As outlined above, the infringements are all serious in
nature and in gravity. The infringements concern the personal financial data of Banking365
users and the infringements increased the risks posed by the processing to the rights and
freedoms of those data subjects, in particular in relation to the risk of financial fraud.

In order for a fine to be dissuasive, it must dissuade both the controller/processor concerned,
as well as other controllers and processors carrying out similar processing operations, from
repeating the conduct concerned.

As regards the requirement for any fine to be proportionate, this requires me to adjust the
quantum of any proposed fines to the minimum amount necessary to achieve the objectives
pursued by the GDPR. | am satisfied that the fine imposed above does not exceed what is
necessary to enforce compliance with the GDPR.

| am satisfied that the range for the fine specified above, if imposed on BOi, would be
effective, proportionate and dissuasive, taking into account all of the circumstances covered

by the Inquiry.

Article 83(3) GDPR

Article 83(3) GDPR provides that:

If a controller or processor intentionally or negligently, for the same or linked processing
operations, infringes several provisions of this Regulation, the total amount of the
administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the gravest infringement.

lam imposing an administrative fine for BOI’s infringement of Article 5(1)(f). This infringement
itself is the gravest infringement and | am acting in accordance with Article 83(3) in imposing
this fine.

Article 83(5) GDPR

As regards the maximum amount for the fine that can be imposed in respect of the
infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR, the relevant fining cap is the higher of €20,000,000 or
4% of the worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year. Therefore, | find that

33

the cap for an infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR is €114.2 million. This figure is not a
starting point, but rather the cap on the permitted range as provided for in Article 83(5) GDPR.
The fine imposed is below 4% of the turnover of BOI.

146. It is my view that the above administrative fine meets the requirements of being effective,
proportionate and dissuasive as required by Article 83(1) GDPR. As regards the requirement
for any fine to be proportionate, this requires me to adjust the quantum of any fine to the
minimum amount necessary to achieve the objectives pursued by the GDPR. | am satisfied
that the fine imposed does not exceed what is necessary to enforce compliance with the
GDPR, taking into account the impact of the infringement on the data subject rights enshrined
in the GDPR. Accordingly, | am satisfied that the fine | have decided to impose is effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, taking into account all of the circumstances of the inquiry.

N, Right of Appeal

147. — This Decision issues in accordance with section 111 of the 2018 Act. Pursuant to section 150(5)
of the 2018 Act, BOI has the right to appeal against this Decision within 28 days from the date
on which notice of this Decision is received by it. Furthermore, pursuant to section 142 of the
2018 Act, as this Decision includes a decision to impose an administrative fine, BOI will also
have the right to appeal against that Decision within 28 days from the date on which notice
of the Decision is given to it.

68 BOI Group worldwide annual turnover 2021 was €2,855M (See Bank of Ireland Group pic Annual Report 2021}. Net
Interest Income €2,219M + Total Business Income €636M = Total: €2,855M. 2% of this figure amounts to €57.1M. 4% of
this figure amounts to €114.2M.

34