1/13

 File No.: PS/00181/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), dated February 1, 2021,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CANTABRO HEALTH SERVICE with NIF Q3900738J
(hereinafter, the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

The claimant states that he availed himself of the provisions of Law 7/2006, of June 15,
of guarantees of maximum response times in healthcare specialized in
the public health system of Cantabria. It is a law that can benefit
all citizens of Cantabria who have a health card and appear in the
Registration of Patients on the Waiting List for a time determined by law.

In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned regulations, the claimant requested the
reimbursement of expenses for carrying out a diagnostic test (...) and other expenses
(displacement and allowances), without receiving the legally established response. After
carry out procedures with the Cantabrian Health Service, considers that they have lost
the application and the documentation attached to it.

The claimant provides a copy of the official request for reimbursement of expenses dated March 22,
September 2020, in which the boxes corresponding to the
documentation required and written by hand also states that a CD is delivered
(...). The request is stamped with the seal of the "Doctor Morante Health Center".

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the respondent, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 03/10/2021, as recorded in the
acknowledgment of receipt that works in the file. In said transfer, this Agency requested
expressly to the claimed, information, among other extremes, for "the causes that
have motivated the incidence that has originated the claim", as well as by "the
measures taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

On 04/05/2021, this Agency received a response letter, which, avoiding
rule on the required issues, contains only a narrative
chronology of the following events:

“Once the submitted documentation and the facts related to the
The following aspects must be indicated in chronological order:

1. On September 22, 2020, the interested party submits the documentation of
reimbursement of expenses for carrying out a diagnostic test, taking advantage of the
Law 7/2006, of June 15, guarantees maximum response times in
specialized health care in the public health system of Cantabria.
The admissions coordinator of the Dávila Health Center states in writing
who submitted the documentation on September 22.

2. On December 30, 2020, there is an entry in the delegate registry of the
Cantabrian Health Service, photocopies of the documentation to proceed
to reimbursement of expenses.

3. On December 30, 2020, in the Common Electronic Registry, the
files a claim demanding responsibilities for the loss of the
documentation.

4. On January 5, 2021, there is an entry in the delegate registry of the Service
Cantabro de Salud, the documentation for the payment of allowances and
travel to Bilbao to carry out the diagnostic test.

5. The interested party is paid the amount of 210.23 euros, corresponding to the
diagnostic test, displacements and diets. Expenses are not valued
caused by CD copying and postage, amounting to 45.89 euros. And it,
since the CD did not have to have been presented, since it is not part of the
documentation required and necessary in this matter.

6. On March 12, 2021, in the Common Electronic Registry, the interested party
files a claim against the Health Assistance Subdirectorate of the
Cantabrian Health Service for the payment of legal interest of 210.23
euros paid on March 11, 2021 and the expenses caused by the copy of
CD and postage (45.89 euros).

7. The Head of the Benefits, Concerts and Medical Transport Service of the
Cantabrian Health Service requests a report from the Advisory Service
Legal of the Ministry of Health on the payment of interest and
expenses caused by the CD copy and their postage.»

THIRD: On April 23, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim submitted by the claimant was admitted for processing.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
question, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

The claimant states that he exercised the right of access to his data
personal (travel and food bills, medical report of the test and
CD with (...)), without having received the legally established response.
He considers that said documentation has been lost and provides a copy of the
reimbursement request and the claim filed after the loss of the
documentation.

The antecedents that appear in the information systems are the
following:

On April 23, 2021, in procedure E/02584/2021, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection agreed to carry out these actions
investigation, revealing the following circumstances, either
previously collected:

The claimant states that he exercised the right of access to his data
personal (travel and food bills, medical report of the test and
CD with (...)), without having received the legally established response.
He considers that said documentation has been lost and provides a copy of the
reimbursement request and the claim filed after the loss of the
documentation.

The respondent has responded to the request for information
carried out by this AEPD, stating, in summary, that it has proceeded to
pay the claimant an amount corresponding to the diagnostic test,
commuting and diets. Likewise, it is indicated that the Head of the Service of
Benefits, Concerts and Health Transport of the Cantabrian Health Service
has requested a report from the Legal Advice Service of the Ministry
of Cantabrian Health on the claim for the payment of interest to the
amount paid. However, nothing has been clarified about the loss of
documentation with personal and clinical data of the complaining party, therefore
which infers a possible violation of the current matter of protection of
data.

1.- The complainant provides a copy of the official request together with the complaint letter
reimbursement of expenses dated September 22, 2020, which includes
checked the boxes corresponding to the required documentation and written to
hand also states that a CD is delivered (...). The request is stamped
with the seal of the Doctor Morante Health Center.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

2.- By means of a letter dated May 19, 2021, the Inspection
of Data requested the Cantabrian Health Service that within 10 days
business days, send the following information and documentation:

1.- Detailed specification of the causes that have made possible the
security incident in the custody of the documentation delivered by
the claimant, including information regarding the conditions that are
they gave for the events reported to have occurred.

2.- Description of the possible consequences for the affected party.

3.- Regarding the security of personal data processing:

3.1. Security measures implemented in data processing where
gap has occurred.
3.2. Information regarding the reason why the security measures
implemented have not prevented the security incident.
3.3. Technical and organizational measures adopted to avoid, as far as possible,
security incidents like the one that happened.

4.- Information on the recurrence of these events and number of events
analogues that occurred in time.

3.- Dated June 25, 2021, a letter from the Cantabrian Service has entered
of Health that attaches a report from the Managing Director of Primary Care,
with the following content:

“In view of the document issued by the AEPD in relation to the Claim
E/02584/2021 regarding the pending file initiated to know the
circumstances of the complaint filed on February 1, 2021 in relation to the
operation of the Dávila Health Center in the loss of
documentation, the information requested by the Service is expanded below
Cantabro de Salud on the basis of the assessment of the issues raised
by the agency.

Yo.

Report of causes that led to the incident.

The admission areas in the Health Centers are not Offices of
Assistance in Registration Matters so that
the
make requests and
citizens/users/patients can
present them together with the corresponding documentation. The
regulatory regulations of the registry offices is collected
in Decree 42/2019, of March 28, which regulates the
Legal and Organizational Regime of Citizen Attention and the
exercise of the Administrative Function of Registration in the Administration
of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. Establishes in ANNEX IV
the LOCATION AND OPENING HOURS OF THE REGISTRY
GENERAL ELECTRONIC OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF CANTABRIA.
(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

Yo.

Report of measures adopted

This management has established as a priority strategic line the
implementation of adequate computer systems that allow the
obtaining all the information and the adequate exploitation of the
data at the health management level in the Health Centers so that the
internal bag is electronic and the traceability of any
document until its arrival at the central administrative services of
primary care management.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the truth is that the Computer Service of this
management is currently serving the interests
strategic priority public health directed from the own
Ministry of Health to meet treatment needs
electronic data that are most necessary in this situation
special epidemiology of Covid-19.

Likewise, work is being done on the deployment to all the Health Centers of
accurate information so that they can assist users in matters
of information on the Registration Assistance Offices
closest; as well as on the General Electronic Access Point
of the CAC to electronically formulate any request
likely to generate an expectation of law as interested in
an administrative procedure.

FIFTH: On April 19, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified
respectively in sections 5 and 4 of article 83 of the RGPD.

SIXTH. On the same day, 04/19/2022, the aforementioned
initiation agreement, in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the term granted for the formulation of
allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received by the party
claimed.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. The claimant requested the Cantabrian Health Service to reimburse
expenses for carrying out a diagnostic test ((...)) and other expenses, as
established in Law 7/2006, of June 15, of guarantees of maximum times of
response in specialized health care in the public health system of
Cantabria.

SECOND. The request mentioned in the previous section was presented by the
claimant in a Health Center of the Cantabrian Health Service. This center admitted
the application even though it is not considered an Assistance Office in
Registration matter so that citizens/users/patients can formulate
applications and submit them together with the corresponding documentation.

THIRD. The claimant did not receive a response to the request indicated in the section
previous.

FOURTH. The Cantabrian Health Service has lost the application referred to in this
file, together with the documentation attached to it, which included invoices,
medical reports and a digital support with (...).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

II

Previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
carrying out personal data processing, whenever the Service
Cántabro de Salud carries out, among other treatments, the collection, processing,
conservation, consultation, use and access of the personal data of the
citizens, in particular those like those who, in this case, direct them
requests in accordance with the Law.

The Cantabrian Health Service carries out this activity in its capacity as responsible
of the treatment, since it is the one who determines the purposes and means of such activity, in
under article 4.7 of the RGPD:

“responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person,
public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others,
determine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may
establish them by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;

Article 4 paragraph 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in another
form, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.”

In the present case, there is a security breach of personal data in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as an availability gap, when
there has been a loss of the documentation provided by the claimant, without
that the respondent has provided any information on what may have happened or
where can it be found.

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the
imposition of a sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary
analyze the diligence of those responsible and in charge and the security measures
applied.

The security of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the RGPD, which
regulates the security of the treatment, the notification of a violation of the
security of personal data to the control authority, as well as the communication
to the interested party, respectively.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the request for reimbursement of expenses incurred in carrying out
a diagnostic test ((...)) and other expenses (travel and allowances) and the
attached documentation, which contained personal data of the claimant, was subject to
loss by the Cantabrian Health Service, since the entry of the
itself in a Health Center attached to said service, without this having been able to give
reason for its whereabouts before the claim of its owner.

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the facts
known are constitutive of an infraction, attributable to the Cantabrian Service of
Health, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

IV

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned (…)

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:
"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

v

9/13

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

Article 32 of the GDPR

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a)

pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

In the present case, the claimant has accredited the presentation before the
Cantabrian Health Service of a request for reimbursement of expenses for carrying out
a diagnostic test ((...)) and other expenses (travel and allowances). all of it
in accordance with the provisions of Law 7/2006, of June 15, on time guarantees
maximum responses in specialized health care in the health system
Cantabrian public.

The claimant denounces the loss of said documentation, while the
claimed, both in the response to the transfer procedure with the performance by this
Agency of the previous investigative actions has limited itself to affirming that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

Finally, the benefit was paid to the claimant and that the Health Centers of the
Cantabrian Health Service do not have the status of registry offices. I know nothing
indicates about the security breach denounced by the claimant, nor about its
causes or the possible current whereabouts of the documentation.

Likewise, nothing explains the Cantabrian Health Service about the measures that it had
established to prevent incidents like this from occurring. In their
replies, it only contains a brief reference indicating that it has
established a “priority strategic line the implementation of adequate systems
computer systems that allow obtaining all the information and the adequate
exploitation of the data at the health management level in the Health Centers so that
the internal bag is electronic and the traceability of any document is ensured
until arrival at the central administrative services of the care management
primary.". Despite this, the respondent affirms that this action would not be found
among its priorities, clarifying that these are focused on “meeting the needs of
electronic processing of data that is most necessary in this situation
special epidemiology of Covid-19.”

For all these reasons, it cannot be considered accredited that the Cantabrian Health Service
had measures in place to prevent a security breach like this
could happen. There is sufficient evidence regarding the absence of measures
adequate security. These facts constitute a violation of article 32
GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

SAW

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:
“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee an adequate level of security when
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
 (…)

7th

Imposition of measures

Among the corrective powers provided in article 58 "Powers" of the RGPD, in the
Section 2.d) establishes that each control authority may “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”.

The text of the resolution establishes the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

viii

Sanction

Article 83 “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines” of the
RGPD in its section 7 establishes:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

In accordance with article 1 of Law 10/2001, of December 28, on the Creation of the Service
Cantabrian Health, this service is considered a public body with the
character of an autonomous body, with legal personality and full capacity to
act.

In accordance with the aforementioned article 77.2 of the LOPDGDD, the sanction that
could correspond in this procedure would be that of a warning for each
of the two offenses.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

I RESOLVE

FIRST: SANCTION the CANTABRO SERVICE OF
HEALTH, with NIF Q3900738J, for the infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5 of the same Regulation.

SECOND: SANCTION with a warning to the CANTABRO SERVICE OF
SALUD, with NIF Q3900738J, for the infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in
Article 83.4 of the same Regulation.

THIRD. REQUEST the CANTABRIAN HEALTH SERVICE to implement the
corrective measures that prevent similar events from being repeated in the future, and the
update of the action plan for the management and notification of information gaps
security, within a period of 3 months, and inform this Agency of what is required in the
same term.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

FOURTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the CANTABRO HEALTH SERVICE,
with NIF Q3900738J,

FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-110422

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

