
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    13.10.2020
                                Congratulations to Hesse - 50 years ago the world's first data protection law came into force - Rhineland-Palatinate soon followed 50 years ago today, on October 13, 1970, the world's first data protection law came into force in Hesse. This was followed by Sweden (in 1973) and Rhineland-Palatinate as number three (1974). Professor Dieter Kugelmann, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, explained: “The Hessian law ushered in a new era of protection legislation personal data. Tackling data protection laws at the time was bold and progressive: on the one hand, it was a response to growing fears of a "surveillance state". On the other hand, the legislators had in mind that the electronic processing of data was becoming more and more widespread in various areas of the economy and life. Protecting citizens' data, which could be copied, sent and stored, became increasingly important. The laws of that time - corresponding to the time - did not yet take into account what are now self-evident data protection principles - such as the processing of personal data only with a legal basis, such as the consent of the persons concerned. However, they laid the foundation for the following developments.”
Kugelmann continues: "The laws in Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate have similar regulations, but also differences: In Hesse, it was planned from the start that an officially appointed and independent person would take care of data protection - similar to today's state data protection officers. Rhineland-Palatinate initially took a different approach: a state parliament committee for data protection and later a data protection commission with representatives from parliament and the state government were set up. A state representative was not elected in Rhineland-Palatinate until 1991." The Rhineland-Palatinate data protection officer goes on to say: "What began 50 years ago in Hesse is one of the central issues of the 21st century - namely the protection of the data of citizens and that Right to informational self-determination in a digital world in which algorithms often determine the processing of personal data. Data protection will continue to constructively accompany the digital and technological revolution of the past and future years: Just as the mountains of data are growing and covering more and more areas of life, data protection must also continue to develop as a necessary corrective."
                                return
                            



