1/16

 File No.: EXP202209339

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D. A.A.A., in the name and representation of D. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the part
claimant) on September 26, 2021 filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed against:
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U. with NIF A08980153. The
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The claimant states that the entity claimed, through collection companies,
You are demanding the payment of a debt that was annulled by court ruling, and
about which CaixaBank indicated that it was proceeding to cease the claims of the
same.

And, provide the following relevant documentation:

Letter from the CaixaBank Group, dated December 24, 2020, addressed to give
response to the claim filed by the claimant, informing that
verified the nullity of the contract, for which reason they have issued orders for the cessation of the
non-payment claims that it received.

Screenshot of the SMS received from the collection company on behalf of the
claimed, dated July 23, 2021, claiming payment of the debt.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was forwarded to CaixaBank, S.A., for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on November 5, 2021 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On December 17, 2021, this Agency received a written response
in which they limit themselves to attaching a copy of the contract of the particular conditions of the
Star Passbook, Pension Club Now Account and related contracts and judgment
of the First Instance Court N.1 ***LOCATION.1.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

In the Judgment of the First Instance Court No.1 ***LOCATION.1 Procedure
Ordinary 0000262/2018 plaintiff the complainant and defendant CaixaBank
Payments & Consumer EFC, EP, S.A.U. dated May 13, 2019. In its
Basis of Law Fifth provides for the radical nullity of the contract card "Visa
Classic Club Now" and the consequence is that the actor will only be obliged to
return to the defendant the capital actually disposed of, discounting all
amount that exceeds said capital.

THIRD: On March 10, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On June 22, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against CaixaBank, S.A., for
the alleged violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: Notification of the start agreement on June 23, 2022 to the claimed party.
On July 5, 2022, he requested an extension of the term and on the 13th of the same month and
year, a document from the representation of CaixaBank, S.A. was entered in this Agency,
in which he alleged that CaixaBank is totally unrelated to the card contract whose
nullity is the object of the sentence and therefore in no case can a
responsible for the infringement that is imputed, since the entity sued in the
procedure by which the radical annulment of the “Visa Classic” card contract is declared
Club Ahora” is the entity CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A., with NIF
A08980153. Since CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A., a commercial entity with
own legal personality and absolutely different from the entity CaixaBank, S.A.
with NIF A08663619
On the other hand, they provide as document number two, the sentence, in which the
entity sued in the procedure for which the radical nullity of the
card contract "Visa Classic Club Ahora" is the entity CaixaBank Payments,
E.F.C. E.P., S.A., with NIF A08980153.

SIXTH: It is confirmed in the Judgment of the First Instance Court No.1 ***LOCATION.1
Ordinary Procedure 0000262/2018 that the entity sued in the procedure
because the radical nullity of the "Visa Classic Club Now" card contract is declared
is the entity CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A., with NIF A08980153.

SEVENTH: On September 26, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against CaixaBank
Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A., with NIF A08980153, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged
infringement of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

EIGHTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established regulations
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P.,
S.A., presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary, it stated: "defenselessness
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

produced to CaixaBank Payments & Consumer as a result of setting the
penalty amount in the initiation agreement. In this procedure, the Organ itself
Sanctioner makes an assessment in the Commencement Agreement (advance and without
any motivation), of the responsibility of the Entity, even indicating, even if
solely by its mere mention, the concurrent aggravating factors in the case, even
when it formally intends to leave what is finally appropriate based on
The instruction. Well then, from the foregoing we can only draw the conclusion that, said
be with the greatest of respect, the legality of the
administrative action, every time that the degree of
guilt of the Entity in the alleged commission of the infringing conduct, without
for that reason, it was possible, at any time, to carry out any allegation that
allows the Sanctioning Body to assess, even minimally, the circumstances
concurrent in the case in light of said allegations. The fact that the Organ
Sanctioner establishes in the Commencement Agreement the amount of the sanction that, at his
judgment, should be imposed on the Entity, substantially affects the impartiality of the
action of the Instructing Body, which is knowledgeable, before starting the processing of the
procedure, of what is the criterion of the Body to which it will finally raise the
file for the imposition of the sanction that "could correspond", in what
Regarding the amount of the same and the modifying circumstances of the
liability to be taken into account in their determination. It looks like this
substantially affected the scope of action of the competent body for the
instruction.

This party understands that there is a radical defect in the processing of this procedure
disciplinary action that affects its nullity, while the investigation phase has been
contaminated by the action of the Sanctioning Body that, when assessing the amount of the
sanction that should be imposed, has compromised the impartiality of the Body
Instructor, of which he is a hierarchical superior, having evaluated the causes of aggravation
of the responsibility in their opinion concurrent in the case and has quantified which must be
be, in his opinion, the penalizing reproach that should be imposed on this party. is deprived
thus to the Examining Body of an objective knowledge of the facts and of the possibility
to make an assessment of those circumstances derived from the instruction, from the
evidence that the parties could provide and the assessments and allegations that the parties
they could do. It is true that hierarchical independence will not be required
of the sanctioning body and the Investigating Body, but it is also true that the actions of the
Instructing Body may not, in any case, be directed by the Sanctioning Body.
The consequence of all the above is that there is a radical vice in the processing of
this disciplinary procedure, derived from an interpretation contrary to the
Articles 64 and 85 of the LPACAP, which affects the nullity of the same, having
violated the fundamental rights of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer.

CaixaBank Payments & Consumer has not entrusted Lexer with the debt claim
any for which my client has not carried out the data processing that was
imputed in this Commencement Agreement. Consequently, it is not possible to impute
this part the commission of an offense for violation of article 6 of the GDPR
"Legality of treatment".

CaixaBank Payments & Consumer is not responsible in the procedure
disciplinary system at hand, the conduct susceptible to infringement is not attributable to
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, without anyone being convicted or penalized
but for facts that can be imputed to him.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

Since there is no conduct attributable to CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, there is no
It is possible to assess any aggravating or mitigating circumstance. under everything
which, requests that a resolution be issued declaring the nullity of full right or
secondarily, agreeing to file the procedure”.

NINTH: On October 20, 2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed
perform the following tests:

"1. The claim filed by D.
B.B.B. and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the phase of
admission to process the claim. 2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for the purposes
evidence, the allegations to the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure
referenced, presented by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U., and the documentation that accompanies them”.

TENTH: On November 18 and December 7, 2022, the
Proposed Resolution formulated on November 17 and December 5, 2022,
granting a period of ten business days for the submission of a written
allegations. Said term was subject to extension in the terms legally
planned.

Notified the Proposed Resolution, dated December 12, 2022, the party
The defendant submits a brief of allegations in which, in summary, it states:

A.-) Neither the debt "was annulled" (as the claimant erroneously says), nor "has
continued claiming a debt already paid" (as also wrongly indicates
that Agency).

The Judgment of the Court of First Instance No. 1 of ***LOCALIDAD.1, dated 13
of May 2019, provided by the claimant, declares the nullity, as usurious, of the
credit card contract dated March 6, 2015. The consequence of
Said annulment is provided for in Article 3 of the Law of July 23, 1908, on Usury that
establishes: "Declared in accordance with this law the nullity of a contract, the borrower
will be obliged to deliver only the sum received; and if I had satisfied part of
and the interest due, the lender will return to the borrower what,
taking into account the total amount received, exceeds the loaned capital."

Thus, based on said Judgment, the claimant was obliged to deliver to
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer the total borrowed capital that would have been available
(the only thing that will not pay are interest, penalties, commissions, etc.), then, as
As the Supreme Court has established, the consequence of the usurious nature of
a loan, due to the interest rate, is that the borrower will be obliged to deliver as
only the sum received, but not the interest and expenses.

Therefore, the claimant had to pay, after the issuance of the aforementioned Judgment (and
in compliance with the same), logically, to CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, all
the borrowed capital arranged. Specifically, almost a year after the issuance of the
aforementioned Judgment, dated September 30, 2020, the claimant entered in favor of
of CaixaBank 5 Payments & Consumer, in the deposit and consignment account
Court of First Instance No. 1 of *** LOCATION.1, the total amount
of XXX.XX € (XXX.XX € as payment of the borrowed capital drawn down and
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

€XX.XX for legal interest from the date of the Judgment). In accreditation of
exposed, is attached, as document No. 1, the brief presented (together with the
proof of the transfer made), in the aforementioned judicial body, by the
procedural representation of the claimant, in which the following is stated: Subsequently,
the aforementioned Court, on November 6, 2020, handed over to the representation
proceedings of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer the corresponding writ of
payment for said amount (XXX.XX €). It is also attached as document No. 2,
the judicial notification together with the aforementioned order.

B.-) The personal data referring to the card contract subscribed, on the date
March 6, 2015, by the interested party, they were canceled/deleted and
kept blocked at the disposal only of that Agency or other Bodies
administrative or judicial, in compliance with the provisions of the applicable regulations
regarding the protection of personal data.

C.-) In a procedure similar to the present one, specifically in No. EXP202208940
(Along with the claim, a court ruling is provided declaring the nullity of the
card contract with the claimed party, per user, and reports of inclusion in the
Asnef and Experian systems), instructed by that 6 Agency also to CaixaBank
Payments & Consumer, was issued by its Director, dated October 28
of 2022, RESOLUTION OF ARCHIVE OF ACTIONS.

The doctrine of own acts or "venire contra factum proprium non valet" results from
full application in the scope of action of the Administration. The doctrine
jurisprudential of the Constitutional Court and of our Supreme Court is clear to the
regard. The Administration cannot rise up against its previous criteria or
decisions, expressed in previous acts, as it is bound by such acts.
This principle, it is obvious to point out, is related to those of legitimate trust and good faith.
Thus, the principle of protection of legitimate expectations (well known in the law
European administrative procedure) has been accepted by the jurisprudence of Chamber
Third, of contentious-administrative matters, of the Supreme Court (among others, in the
Judgments of February 1, 1990, February 13, 1992, February 17, June 5,
July 28, 1997, January 22, 2007, January 22 and November 4, 2013).
Like any subject of law, the Administration is obliged to observe towards the
future the conduct that has been followed in previous, unequivocal and definitive acts. He
principle of good faith, together with the protection of legitimate expectations, constitute
patterns of behavior to which, at the service of legal certainty, the
Public administrations, all without exception, must adjust their actions. would go against
the principle of good faith, the protection of legitimate trust and security
that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer should now be penalized (with the fine
proposal of €70,000 -nothing more and nothing less-), when in a procedure
analogous to the present, for substantially identical facts, specifically in the
aforementioned No. EXP202208940, instructed by that Agency also to
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, was issued by its Director, dated 28
October 2022 (just one month ago), FILE RESOLUTION OF
PERFORMANCES.

Since some actions have been archived for not noticing a breach of the
data protection regulations, must be issued in this procedure
Resolution declaring the non-existence of liability. Indeed, giving one

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

total identity between the two actions mentioned there cannot be two
contradictory resolutions, therefore, having been filed previously for not
having breached the data protection regulations, cannot subsequently, a
a month later, a violation of said regulations was found in a second resolution,
unless the previous resolution has been annulled by one of the
review mechanisms established in the regulations, which has not occurred in the
present case.

CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, given the circumstances of this case, has
acted correctly and diligently without breaching the duties imposed by the Law, since
has not violated article 6.1 of the GDPR (“Lawfulness of the treatment”) and, therefore, does not
has committed the infringement defined in articles 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation and
72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, the procedure must be resolved in this sense, proceeding to file
of these proceedings; since CaixaBank Payments & Consumer has not infringed
Article 6 of the GDPR.

Secondarily, imposing a warning sanction, established in the
Article 58.2 b) of the GDPR or, failing that, agreeing to significantly reduce the
amount of the administrative fine expressed in the Resolution Proposal.

PROVEN FACTS

1. The claimant states that Caixabank Payments & Consumer EFC, EP,
S.A.U., through collection companies, is demanding the payment of a debt
which was annulled by Judgment 66/2019 of First Instance Court No. 1 of
*** LOCATION.1, ordinary trial 262/20218, dated May 13, 2019.

2. It is stated in the letter from the CaixaBank Group, dated December 24, 2020, that
verified the nullity of the contract, for which reason they have issued orders for the cessation of the
non-payment claims that it received.

 3. The complaining party provides a screenshot of the SMS received from the
collection company on behalf of the defendant, dated July 23, 2021,
demanding payment of the debt.

4. It is on record that the entity sued in the proceedings for which the nullity is declared
radical of the "Visa Classic Club Ahora" card contract is the entity CaixaBank
Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A., with NIF A08980153

5. It appears in the Fifth Legal Foundation (merits of the matter) of the Judgment
66/2019 of First Instance Court No. 1 of ***LOCATION.1, ordinary trial
262/20218, dated May 13, 2019 that <<therefore, what is appropriate is
declare the nullity of the card contract signed on March 6, 2015 between
the parties (Visa Classic Club Now contract with no. ***CONTRACT.1) due to the
usurious nature of remunerative interest, with the effect that the plaintiff comes
obligated only to repay the lender the amount received for capital that
remains to be amortized. The consequence of said declaration of nullity is that the plaintiff
will only be obliged to return to the defendant the capital effectively
disposed, discounting any amount that exceeds said capital>>.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

6. It is verified that the claimant paid in compliance with the aforementioned Judgment,
on September 30, 2020, the total amount of XXX.XX€, and that the aforementioned Court,
on November 6, 2020, delivered to the procedural representation of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer the corresponding payment order for said
amount (XXX.XX €).

7. The personal data referring to the card contract signed, dated 6
March 2015, by the interested party, were canceled/deleted by
of the claimed party.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

breached obligation

CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A. the commission of an offense
violation of article 6 of the GDPR, "Lawfulness of the treatment", which indicates in its
section 1 the cases in which the processing of third-party data is
considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

II

Classification and classification of the offense

The infraction to which the claimed party is held responsible is typified in the
Article 83 of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the taxation
of administrative fines”, he points out:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGDD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years,
<<b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679>>

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:
 
In the opinion of the defendant, the opening agreement is invalidated by the
defenselessness generated by the fact that the AEPD has set the amount for him
of the sanction, instead of expressing only the limits of the possible sanction; because I don't know
have motivated the aggravating circumstances and because through the initiation agreement a
assessment of the guilt of the defendant without having had the opportunity to
pronounce on it. It also adds that the initiation agreement exceeds the content
provided for in article 68 of the LOPDGDD and that, having set the decision-making body the
amount of the sanction in the agreement to open the procedure, it has been
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

compromised the impartiality of the instructing body, which knows thus, before initiating the
procedure, the criteria of the body to which the file must be submitted, which
determines in his opinion a "clear breach of the principle of separation of the phase
instructor and sanction”.

The defendant understands that the rules of article 85 of the LPACAP are not applicable
to the present case but to the cases in which the sanctioning norm imposes a
fine of a fixed and objective nature and that the application that has been made of this precept
in the initiation agreement does not respect its literal wording, according to which the amount of the
pecuniary sanction may be determined "once the disciplinary procedure has started", so
that, the entity maintains, "would be assimilating" "the very act of initiation with the
fact that the procedure is started.
 
The arguments used by the claimed party cannot be admitted.

The opening agreement conforms to the provisions of article 68 of the LOPDGDD,
according to which it will suffice to specify the facts that motivate the opening,
identify the person or entity against which the procedure is directed, the infringement
that he could have committed and his possible sanction. In the same sense, it is expressed
Article 64.2 of the LPACAP that refers to the minimum content of the agreement of
initiation. According to this precept, among other details, it must contain "the facts that
motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible legal qualification and the sanctions
that may correspond, without prejudice to what results from the instruction”. Thus,
In this case, not only the requirements mentioned in the precepts are met
quoted, but goes further, offering reasoning that justifies the possible
legal classification of the facts and mentions the circumstances that may influence
in determining the penalty.

It cannot be ignored that article 85 of the LPACAP - which contemplates the possibility of
apply reductions on the amount of the sanction in the event that the offender
recognizes its responsibility and in case of voluntary payment of the sanction- obliges
determine those reductions in the notification of the initiation agreement of the
procedure, which necessarily implies that said agreement must establish the
amount of the sanction corresponding to the alleged acts. extreme that justifies
amply that it refers to the modifying circumstances of the
responsibility, since these directly affect the determination of the amount of
The sanction.

Contrary to the thesis defended by the defendant, article 85 of the LPACAP does not provide
nor that the amount of the penalty is determined once the procedure has begun.
On the contrary, it is the recognition of responsibility and the voluntary payment of the
sanction what has to take place after that moment, but not the setting
of its amount.

Regarding the opinion of the defendant according to which article 85 LPACAP
could only be applied to cases in which the sanctioning rule
imposes a fine of a fixed and objective nature and that the application that has been made of
this precept in the initiation agreement does not respect its literal wording, it must be indicated that the
AEPD has been applying article 85 LPACAP in the same way since its entry into force
of the aforementioned law without the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Hearing

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

National, before which there is a contentious-administrative appeal against its
resolutions, has never ruled in line with the criteria that that entity
defend.

Nor can it be accepted that having indicated in the initiation agreement the sanction that
could correspond to the one claimed for the imputed infraction is determinative of
defenselessness or supposes a breach of the principle of separation of the phases of
instruction and resolution, since this Agency is limited to complying with it with a
of the requirements set forth in the standards reviewed. In greater abundance, also
Articles 68 of the LOPDGDD and 64.2 of the LPACAP require as content of the
opening agreement that sets the sanction that may correspond.

Thus, the alleged rupture "of the principle of separation of the instructor phase and of
sanction" that the defendant alleges -a point that this Agency denies- would be, if it existed, the
consequence of the correct application that this Agency has been making of a
legal precept, article 85 of the LPACAP.

Regarding what was stated by the defendant that, having established the opening agreement
the amount of the sanction and the modifying circumstances of the responsibility that
could be appreciated, she has not had the opportunity to comment, we limit ourselves to pointing out
that the administrative procedure begins precisely with the opening agreement
and it is from then -not before- when article 53 of the LPACAP recognizes the
interested party a series of rights, including the one provided for in article 53.1.e).

Lastly, with regard to the defect of nullity which, in the opinion of the defendant,
the procedure suffers as a consequence of the defenselessness that he claims to have suffered
The following should be noted: First, the defendant does not specify in what
section of article 47.1 of the LPACAP grounds the nullity that it invokes.

Secondly, the invoked nullity of the proceeding could in no case
based on section a) of article 47.1. of the LPACAP, in connection with the
alleged rupture of the separation between the investigative phase and the decisive one according to the
Article 24.2 of the E.C. This, because according to the SSTC 74/2004 and 175/2005, the
principle enshrined in article 24.2 of the E.C. according to which whoever instructs does not
resolves, it is not applicable to the administrative procedure, so that in this area
We are not before a right with constitutional rank.

And finally, thirdly, in the event that the nullity of the
procedure on the grounds contained in section e) of article 47.1 of the LPACAP
It seems appropriate to bring up STC 78/1999, of April 26, which in its
Legal Basis 2, says:

"Thus, according to reiterated constitutional doctrine that is synthesized in the foundation
3º of the STC 62/1998, "the estimation of an appeal for amparo by the
existence of breaches of procedural rules 'does not result simply from the
assessment of the possible violation of the right due to the existence of a defect
procedural more or less serious, but it is necessary to prove the effective concurrence
of a state of material or real defenselessness' (STC 126/1991, 5th legal basis;
STC 290/1993, legal basis 4th). So that a helplessness can be estimated
with constitutional relevance, which places the interested party outside of any possibility of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

claim and defend their rights in the process, a violation is not enough
merely formal, it being necessary that an effect be derived from that formal infraction
material defenselessness, an effective and real impairment of the right of defense (STC
149/1998, legal basis 3rd), with the consequent real and effective damage to the
interested parties affected (SSTC 155/1988, legal basis 4, and 112/1989,
legal basis 2)".

In view of the foregoing, the petition of the defendant to declare the nullity of the
disciplinary administrative procedure at hand must be rejected.
The defendant party cites in its defense the resolution issued by the AEPD,
stating that the present case is analogous to that included in the
procedure EXP2022208490 also for nullity of the card contract, which was
file object by the AEPD.

Well, in EXP2022208490, there is no record that collection companies were
claiming the outstanding debt after its payment.

In this proceeding, despite the fact that Caixabank Payments & Consumer
made the corresponding adjustments to reflect the amount of outstanding debt and
Said amount must be paid by the claimant, continued through collection companies
claiming the amount of the debt.

Well then, in the Fifth Law Foundation of the judgment handed down by the
First Instance Court N.1 ***LOCATION.1 Ordinary Procedure 0000262/2018
provides for the radical nullity of the "Visa Classic Club Now" card contract and the
The consequence is that the actor will only be obliged to return to the party
demanded the capital effectively disposed of discounting any amount that exceeds
of said capital. For these purposes, the reproduced SMS announces the filing of
actions to recover "the outstanding debt plus agreed interest and costs", which
certifies that payment was required beyond the interest recognized by the sentence.

Despite the favorable resolution of the aforementioned Court of May 13, 2019, and the
response from the CaixaBank Group dated December 24, 2020 in response to
the claim of the claiming party dated December 10, 2020, in which
states that <<we have verified the nullity of the ruled contract, for which reason
They have given orders to cease the non-payment claims that it receives>>.

However, the claimant received an SMS from Lexer, a collection company, in which
which stated: <<Lexer informs you reliably through this SMS,
that we will recommend to our client CaixaBank the implementation of the
judicial actions necessary for the recovery of the outstanding debt plus
agreed interest and costs>>, dated July 23, 2021.

It has been verified in the documentation provided by the claimed party that with
dated September 30, 2020, on the one hand, the claimant entered in his favor in the
account of deposits and judicial consignments of the Court of First Instance No. 1
of ***LOCATION.1, the total amount of XXX.XX € (XXX.XX € as payment
of the borrowed capital drawn down and XX.XX € for legal interest from the date of the
Judgment), and on the other hand, the aforementioned Court, dated November 6, 2020,
delivered to the procedural representation of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer the
corresponding payment order for said amount (XXX.XX €).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

On the other hand, the claimed party states that the personal data
referring to the card contract signed, on March 6, 2015, by the
interested party, were subject to cancellation/deletion and are kept blocked to
available only to that Agency or other administrative or judicial bodies,
in compliance with the provisions of the applicable regulations on the protection of
Personal data.

It must be taken into account that the claimed party violated article 6.1 of the GDPR,
since it processed the personal data of the claimant without legitimacy. Since the
aforementioned Court delivered the procedural representation of CaixaBank Payments &
Consuming the corresponding payment order for said amount (XXX.XX €), the
November 6, 2020. However, the claimed party continued to claim such
debt through a collection company on July 23, 2021.

The lack of diligence displayed by the entity in the fulfillment of the obligations
imposed by the personal data protection regulations is, therefore,
evident. Diligent compliance with the principle of legality in data processing
of third parties requires that the controller be in a position to
prove it (principle of proactive responsibility).

Based on the available evidence, it is estimated that the conduct
of the claimed party could violate article 6.1 of the GDPR and may be
constituting the offense classified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation
2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

IV.

Sanction

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

1. the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

1. the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

1. the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42, and

K) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
and corrective measures”:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.

personal information.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose on the entity claimed as responsible for an infringement classified in the
article 83.5.a) of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating factors:

  

1. That the facts that are the subject of the claim derive from a serious lack of
CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A. (article 83.2.b, GDPR),
When he learned of the Judgment, he did not act and continued to treat the
claimant data. The Judgment was delivered on May 13, 2019, the
response from the CaixaBank Group dated December 24, 2020, indicated the
nullity of the contract and that they had given orders for the cessation of the
non-payment claims. However, on July 23, 2021, he received an SMS
claiming the non-existent debt.
The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in the
that, with respect to entities whose activity involves a continuous
treatment of customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court comes
understanding that imprudence exists whenever a duty is neglected
legal care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence
callable. And in assessing the degree of diligence, consideration must be
especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in
the case now examined, when the activity of the appellant is
constant and abundant handling of personal data must be insisted
in the rigor and the exquisite care to adjust to the legal preventions to the
regard."

-

The obvious link between the business activity of CaixaBank
Payments, E.F.C. E.P., S.A. and the processing of customer personal data
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

15/16

or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of
the LOPDGDD)

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of €70,000
for violation of article 83.5 a) GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.,
with NIF A08980153, for a violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

