 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 
 
 
 
 
 

711.438.1

 

 

March 1, 2021
 

Notification of benefits instead of a berlin pass: No data protection for low earners

 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information criticizes that people with
low income, if they want to use the bus and train at a reduced price, in the event of a
must show the original of their notice of receipt of social benefits.
 
The reason for this is that the citizen registration offices have not been open for months due to the corona pandemic
issue more berlin passes. With the berlinpass, Berliners can travel with little
Income etc. Use educational, cultural and leisure time offers at a reduced price or free of charge.
In addition, the berlinpass entitles you to purchase a discounted "Berlin-Ticket S" for the
Public transport services.
 
Expired berlin passes remain valid and from March 1, 2021, the
Citizens’ registration offices are gradually issuing berlin passes again. However, the problem persists because
also those citizens who were granted benefits before March 1, 2021
and who do not have a berlin pass, continue to present the original of their notification of benefits
have to.
 
Due to numerous complaints, the Berlin supervisory authority has examined the incident and
to the responsible Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs
expressed significant data protection concerns. The Senate Administration
acknowledged that the obligation to submit original notifications is not a "clean solution"
represent. However, she sees no way of remedying this.
 
The argument of the senate administration, that this is the case, causes astonishment
berlinpass for a voluntary offer and those affected would have the opportunity to use the regular
To take advantage of the tariffs offered by the transport companies, given that these
because of their low income, they are dependent on these benefits.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
 
“I believe that the obligation to disclose extremely sensitive social data is still in place
very questionable in terms of data protection. These notices do not contain for this purpose
required information about addresses, date of birth and reason and amount of the
approved benefits. In contrast to the discreet berlinpass, the eye-catching one reveals
Also inform all bystanders that the person concerned receives state benefits.
 
I find it particularly dubious that the Senate administration points out that
Those affected would have the choice between purchasing the regular offers or disclosing them
their personal data. Data protection must not depend on the income of those concerned

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

be dependent. I appeal to the Senate administration to make improvements here in order to
To continue to enable those affected to participate in social life.”

