 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 

 
 
 Adrian Lobsiger  
Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner 
 
 Copied to: John Edwards 
UK Information Commissioner 
 
Brussels, 16 July 2024 
 

by e-mail only 
 
Subject: Response to Letter on “Meeting on International Cooperation Launched by the ICO 
in Washington DC” 
 
Dear Commissioner Lobsiger, 
 
Thank you very much for your letter dated 8 May 2024, as well as for your letter of 7 June 
replying to Commissioner Edwards’ letter of 5 June to which I was copied.  
 
First and foremost, I appreciate the input you shared with regard to the European Commission 
and ICO’s initiatives on international cooperation and your suggestions on the way forward, 
with  the  contribution  of  the  EDPB.  I  would  like  to  thank  you  as  well  for  your  expressed 
willingness to continue exploring routes of collaboration with the EDPB on matters of mutual 
interest.  
 
Contributing to the global dialogue on data protection, including on data transfers, is a strategic 
priority for the EDPB. In particular, the EDPB and its members will continue to engage with 
the  international  community,  promoting  high  data  protection  standards  and  reinforcing  the 
EDPB’s  involvement  in  international  discussions.  The  EDPB  equally  intends  to  further 
facilitate and strengthen cooperation between the members of the EDPB and non-EU countries’ 
data protection and privacy authorities. In this context, we will increase our efforts relating to 
our contributions on international cooperation and supporting enforcement, and further develop 
our current approaches.  
 
In that perspective, the EDPB welcomes the initiative launched by the European Commission 
and the goal of strengthening cooperation with all countries that benefit from an EU adequacy 
decision and ensuring safe data flows. While cooperation and exchanges take place in various 
existing international fora, the network of adequate countries brings together jurisdictions that 
took significant steps towards convergence and that share common values and objectives of 
ensuring a high level of protection of personal data. In this regard, I would also like to reassure 
you that the EDPB shares your views on the importance of avoiding duplication of efforts with 
regard to existing cooperation initiatives.  
 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

Therefore,  we  will  continue  to  exchange  with  the  European  Commission  during  the 
implementation of this initiative, to  facilitate and support the cooperation of data protection 
authorities. The EDPB also takes note of the first ideas for concrete cooperation projects you 
mentioned as well as of the specific follow-up actions identified during the technical follow-
up meeting organised by the European Commission on 30 May 2024.  
 
Finally, I would like to inform you that the EDPB is planning to contact DPAs from countries 
with adequacy decisions to set up a meeting in the autumn. This meeting would run alongside 
an EDPB plenary meeting and provide the opportunity to further discuss the expected benefits, 
focus and form of our cooperation.  
 
I am looking forward to continuing to collaborate and exchange our views.  
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Anu Talus 
 

 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

