 

Registration number: NAIH-4822-8/2021.
 

 

Subject: request
 

decision

place

tax

 

To the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority)
XXXXXXX [place and time of birth: XXXXXX, mother's name: XXXXXXX (hereinafter:
Applicant),] legal representatives:
XXXXX [place and time of birth: XXXXX, mother's name: XXXX, address: XXXX], and
XXXXX [birth name: XXXX, place and time of birth: XXXX, mother's name: XXX, address:
XXXX], on behalf of XXXXXX lawyer (XXXXXXXXXXXX) providing representation
with the XXXXX Foundation Kindergarten, Elementary School and Primary Art School (XXXXXX,
hereinafter referred to as: Respondent) unlawful handling and publication of personal data
was initiated as a result of your request submitted on May 11, 2021 (hereinafter: Request)
brought the following in a data protection official procedure
 
 

H A T R O Z A T O T .

 

 
The Authority grants the Applicant's request in part and
 
1. Finds that the Applicant

- The offending video recording on the institutional YouTube channel as an "unlisted" video
breached the general
points a), b), c) of Article 5 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation, related to a
Article 25, Article 5(2), Article 6(1)(a), and Article 17.
Article (1) point b).

- The offending video recording

institutional YouTube channel path
during the data processing related to its publication on the institutional website
violated points a), b), c) of Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
in connection with this, Article 25, Article 5 (2) and Article 6 (1)
point a) of paragraph

- The offending video recording

institutional YouTube channel path
not during data processing related to its publication on the institutional website
violated Article 17, Paragraph 1, Point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

- On the video recording before the offending video recording is made public
did not comply with the general requirements regarding the personal data of the children involved
data protection
information
requirement.

indicated in the article

preliminary

decree

13.

 
2. Finds that the Respondent is related to the recording of the infringing video recording
in terms of data management

- did not carry out illegal data processing,
- did not violate the principle of purpose-boundness and data saving,
- did not violate the Applicant's right to exercise rights as a stakeholder, as well as a

principle of fair procedure and transparency.
 

3. Ex officio obliges the Applicant to

- the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and the provisions of this Decision
adapt your data protection policy and data management accordingly
practice;

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………….………………
1055 Budapest
ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
Falk Miksa utca 9-11
www.naih.hu
 

Phone: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

- the amended data protection policy on the institutional website (www.XXXXXX.hu)

make it public;
- on data management

regarding which are not for the performance of public duties
are based on the legal obligation of the consenting parent
you are necessary
declarations in all cases
school event is accurate
name, if the data is also published, the declaration is separate
the place of publication of the data should be indicated in the consenting section,
duration (from now to when), as well as the date of the declaration.
 

contain the

4. The Authority orders HUF 10,000, i.e. ten thousand forints, to be paid to the Applicant
payment due to exceeding the administrative deadline - at your choice - to a bank account
by money order or postal order.

The Respondent fulfills the obligations indicated in point 3 from taking the measure
in writing within 15 days - together with the presentation of supporting evidence -
must certify to the Authority.
 
In the event of non-fulfillment of the obligations under point 3, the Authority shall issue a decision
implementation.
 
There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but from the announcement
within 30 days from the date of issue, with a letter of claim addressed to the Capital Tribunal
can be challenged in a lawsuit. The claim must be submitted electronically to the Authority, which
forwards it to the court together with the case documents. The request for the holding of the trial is submitted by the
must be indicated in the application. For those who do not receive full personal tax exemption
the fee for the judicial review procedure is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. THE
Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

 
 

I. Facts, history
 
The Applicant is dated May 8, 2021 and received by the Authority on e-Paper on May 11, 2021
in its submission, a request for a data protection official procedure was submitted, according to which
"on the protection of personal data in terms of processing and such data is free
of April 27, 2016 on the flow and repeal of Directive 95/46/EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (hereinafter: general data protection
decree) Article 57 (1) point f) and on the right to informational self-determination and
CXII of 2011 on freedom of information. Act (hereinafter: Infotv.) Section 60 (1)
on the basis of paragraph
 

(i) establish that the Respondent has implemented unlawful data processing by
without an adequate legal basis, legality, purposefulness and data saving
was prepared and published to the general public in violation of the principle of
Affected, as the image and sound recording depicting the Petitioner's minor child;

(ii) establish that the Respondent is for the deletion of the Applicant's video and audio recording
by ignoring his request to exercise his right, he violated the
Applicants affect their right to exercise their rights, as well as the fair procedure and the
principle of transparency;

 
 

2

(iii) condemn the Applicant for the violations under points (i) and (ii), at the same time
- for general preventive purposes - instruct the Applicant to comply with its data management practices
review and to continue lawful data management activities in the future."

 
XXXX Foundation Kindergarten, Primary School and
Elementary School of Art, as a preparatory school suitable for the Applicant's kindergarten care
was admitted to the group. On December 7, 2020, the Applicant informed by e-mail a
the parents of children attending the group - including Applicants - about the fact that the group attends
children will appear in a Christmas performance, which is based on the epidemiological situation
considering that the relatives will not be able to view it personally, live, but will be "recorded
on video and sent to everyone", and "the headmistress would like all of the school
family with this approx. To greet Christmas with a 15-minute program".
 
On December 17, 2020, the applicant, in the electronic mail received from the Application, a YouTube
the video recording was available embedded in the link. According to the Application, “Applicants by clicking on the link
they were shocked to find that the video recording on Youtube is the public, so
it has been shared in a way that is freely accessible to anyone and can be forwarded without restriction,
since the Respondent did not inform the Applicants of this in any way and to that end the
he didn't even ask for their consent."
 
The screenshot attached by the Applicant shows the unlisted video from Youtube (with path
marked, which is not visible in its entirety, but at the same time there is a closed one in front of the YouTube caption
padlock symbol is visible) XXXXXXXX. with an address where the Applicant can be clearly identified,
can be identified beyond doubt. You can also clearly see the video recording on Youtube
setting - "unlisted" - which, according to the Applicants' point of view, means that "the video recording
can be viewed by anyone who has the link, and also that by forwarding the link a
video recording is unlimited, can be shared with anyone and thus accessible by anyone and without limits
can be divided further”.
 
On January 29, 2021, the Applicant's parents informed the Applicant by e-mail that the
The applicant was expelled from the institution, and the reason for this was, among other things,
that "the child's appearance on YouTube was done without permission, the parents
they were not informed in time, and at the same time they requested that the video recording be removed from YouTube immediately
be deleted.”
 
According to the respondent's response letter sent on February 12, 2021, "the child's participation in the
institution did not upload it to the YouTube channel that can be viewed by everyone. The school YouTube
only the parents of the children attending us who have permission from the institution can see it
they got". However, according to the Applicant's parents, this statement of the Applicant is the above
based on his opinion regarding the referenced screenshot, he did not comply
reality, therefore, in his letter sent on February 17, 2021, he called the Applicant again
to delete the video recording immediately.
 
In his reply sent on February 19, 2021, the Respondent stated that "the
we deleted the school YouTube video on the website". According to the Applicant's parents, that's all
reported that the Respondent only deleted the video recording from the website www.XXXXX.hu,
however, the Respondent despite the request of the Applicant's parents from www.yoututbe.com
has still not deleted the availability of the recording, based on the available link a
it was still accessible and shareable. Therefore, the Applicant's father is 2021.
on March 11th, he contacted YouTube staff to announce the permission
a video recording that was published without permission, accessible and shareable, and requested its deletion. THE
After investigating the report, Youtube staff determined the data protection
violation and the video recording was deleted on March 15, 2021.
 

 
 

3

On March 26, 2021, the applicant's parents sent a letter through a legal representative to
To the applicant, according to which, although the child's appearance in the Christmas program
was allowed and they were not opposed to recording it on video either, that's obvious
it did not, could not, mean that the video recording was for the general public
they would have also agreed to make it freely accessible, therefore the opinion of the Applicant's parents
according to the Respondent violated its obligation to provide information, processing data without a legal basis
performed and did not delete the offending video recording even when requested by the Applicant, therefore the Applicant
violated the Applicant's right to image and sound recording.
 
Through its legal representative, the respondent submitted in its response letter dated April 22, 2021 that
in his opinion, the Respondent did not violate the Applicant's personal rights. He denied
that the Christmas program would have been accessible to the general public, according to his claim
it was only available to "the school community". He also referred to that
At the time of enrolment, applicants made a written statement to the effect that
your child's "name, photos, etc. they can be posted on the internet forums operated by the institution".
According to the applicants' statement in this regard, this statement does not correspond to reality either,
since the Respondent neither requested nor received written consent from the Applicants
statement regarding data management, neither with the quoted content nor with any other content.
 
The Authority NAIH-4822-2/2021. in the order issued on May 25, 2021
invited the Applicant to make a statement regarding the case. In this context, the following
asked for answers to questions:

1. For what purpose and on which legal basis was it managed and made public by the Applicant
personal data (audio and image recording) with the participation and participation of the child
on a Christmas video recording? The purpose of processing personal data and the
the existence of a suitable legal basis for data management with precise legal reference, given
in this case, prove it with a suitable document!

2. On which interface/interfaces, when and how did you publish the complained video recording
did you make it available around? Mark exactly these surfaces, publicly
delivery date. The Authority also requests information regarding whether these
public interfaces available to anyone, or their availability to the stakeholders
limited in terms of?

3. If the video recording was available to a limited number of people, how did you ensure that a
the person entitled to access may not access the video recording (for example, by forwarding the link).
a person not belonging to the circle?

4.

To your knowledge, is the complained video recording currently available?

5. Did the Applicant receive a general form from the Applicant's parents or legal representative
the rights of data subjects contained in the data protection decree (for example, to delete personal data
right, right to protest, etc.) request?
the. If so, when and how many times? Are they answered correctly and completely?
extensively these requests? For your answer, send the Authority to these
copies of letters.

b. If not, inform the Authority of the reasons for this.

6. How did Articles 12 and 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation provide for the Applicants

your rights under

7. Inform the Authority of your data management practices, attach a copy of

regulations and internal standards for handling personal data.

8. Send the offending video recording to the Authority.
 

 
 

4

Requested K-II-15/2021 dated June 4, 2021 for the order clarifying the facts of the Authority.
gave the following answers:
"[…] 1. The Christmas video - in which XXX's child, XXX, also appeared - is Christmas
as a greeting, I forwarded it to the family community of our institution. The Christmas one
before the pandemic, programs were broadcast by invitation of parents, grandparents, and relatives
for presentation, and at another time the student community of the school could also see it. THE
the recording of the Christmas program, the kindergarten teachers constantly talk about it during the preparation
and communicated to parents in writing. To prove this, they were attached
letters written by kindergarten teachers.

According to the statement made in relation to the question under point 1, the Applicant is from a family
requested a special permission to record the program, who rejected the statement of consent at the beginning of the year
was filled out, but at the same time the declaration of consent was signed by XXX.

2. - 3. With regard to question No. 2, the Respondent attached the offending video recording
on June 3, 2021. Based on this, the
the offending video recording was uploaded to the school's own YouTube channel December 2020
On the 17th as a non-public video and shared on the same day. The video recording
access path (link) only through the school's own e-mail communication channel a
was shared with parents (in a narrow circle), and only with the link was it possible to a
to view a video recording.

4. According to the respondent's statement, the video recording was no longer available at the time of the statement
available.

5. The offending video recording was removed at the request of the Respondent XXX submitted by e-mail by the
interface (according to the attached electronic mail, the
video recording), about which the Applicant's maintainer informed XXXX by e-mail.

6. For the transparent information of the data subjects specified in the general data protection regulation
guarantees its right as follows: "Every family who has a legal relationship with our institution
establishes, it receives information during enrollment and the first parent-management meeting
data protection regulation no. 4 according to its annex. On this occasion, it will be presented and
the declaration of consent signed by XXX personally. (Appendix No. 7)".

7. - 8. The applicant attached his data protection policy to his statement, respectively
the offending Christmas video recording. [...]"
 
According to the e-mail copy attached by the Respondent during the procedure, the present procedure
2020 in the requested electronic mail.
It was sent to 170 e-mail addresses on December 17 at 12:42 p.m.
 
In the Respondent's statement, in relation to the present case, he also informed a
Authority that "[…] XXX, on January 25, he suddenly terminated his child's legal relationship
with our institution, because XXX was not admitted to the institution's 1st year starting in 2021/2022.
for his grade.

On several occasions and on several points, he denounced the teachers who work with children and that
management of the institution at the Sustainer, - or by a lawyer - to each other multiple times
with contradictory statements. This video recording was part of that.

After the video recording was made available (December 17, 2020), XXX's parents and grandparents
on occasion, they verbally thanked him for this opportunity, with which he is a kindergarten teacher
my female colleagues wanted to show XXX's talent in this direction, emphasize her self-confidence
strengthen. [...]"
 
 

 
 

5

In the same letter, the Applicant's parents informed the Applicant that their child
is expelled from the institution, and among several other reasons, the reason given is that a
for the publication of the Christmas video, the Applicant did not ask for it, and they did not give the
their contribution.
 
In his reply on February 12, 2021, the Applicant informed the Applicant's parents that
that "the institution does not publish the performance of the Child on the YouTube channel that can be viewed by everyone
uploaded it. Only the parents of the children who attend our school can see it on the school YouTube
they received permission for this from the institution."
 
The Applicant has attached a screenshot to the Authority of why, in his opinion, no
the Respondent's answer corresponds to reality.
 
 
In his reply to the Applicant on February 17, 2021, the Applicant's father
still firmly requested the deletion of the video recording, to which the Requested February 19, 2021-
I stated that "the school YouTube video on the website has been deleted", which is a
Reported deletion from www.XXX.hu. Therefore, the Applicant's father March 11, 2021.
on the day of, he contacted YouTube directly and requested the deletion of the offending video recording. THE
YouTube staff deleted the recording on March 15, 2021.
 
 
II. Applicable legal provisions
 
1. On the protection of natural persons with regard to the management of personal data
and on the free flow of such data, as well as outside the scope of Directive 95/46/EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter: General Data Protection Regulation)
Based on Article 2 (1), the General Data Protection Regulation shall apply to personal
for the processing of data in a partially or fully automated manner, as well as those
for the processing of personal data in a non-automated manner, which
are part of a registration system or which become part of a registration system
they want to do.

Based on recital (38) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "Children
their personal data deserve special protection, as they may be less aware of the
with the risks and consequences related to the management of personal data and the
with related guarantees and rights."

According to recital (42) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "If the data management is
is based on the consent of the data subject, the data controller must be able to prove it
knows that the data subject has consented to the data management operation. Especially what he did in the other case
in connection with a written statement, it is necessary to provide guarantees that the person concerned
be aware of the fact that you have given your consent and of what kind
did to an extent. Council Directive 93/13/EEC in contracts with consumers
the unfair conditions applied have been formulated in advance by the data controller
provides a declaration of consent, which is in an understandable and easily accessible form
make it available and its language should be clear and simple and not
may contain
information
to be considered based, the data subject must at least be aware of the identity of the data controller and
with the purpose of processing personal data. Consent cannot be considered
as a volunteer, if the person concerned does not have a real or free choice, and
it is not possible to refuse or withdraw the consent without it being to its detriment
would become."
 

conditions. To make a contribution

unfair

 
 

6

Pursuant to Recital (60) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "The fair and
the principle of transparent data management requires that the data subject receives information about the data management
about its facts and goals. The data controller also provides additional information to the data subject
which are necessary to ensure fair and transparent data management,
taking into account the specific circumstances and context of the processing of personal data. The
the person concerned must also be informed of the fact of profiling and its consequences. If the
personal data is collected from the data subject, the data subject must also be informed that he is obliged to a
to disclose personal data, as well as what the lack of data provision is like
has consequences. This information can also be displayed with standardized icons
to be supplemented so that the data subject is clearly and easily aware of the planned data management
receive general information in an understandable and easy-to-read form. When the icons
are displayed in electronic format, they must be machine-readable."

Based on recital (61) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "For the data subject
related to the management of relevant personal data
information on data collection
must be provided to the data subject at the time, or if the data is not from the data subject, but
collected from another source, taking into account the circumstances of the case, it must be within a reasonable deadline
to make available. If the personal data can be legally disclosed to another recipient, a
at the first communication with the addressee, the person concerned must be informed about it. If the data controller a
wishes to process personal data for a purpose other than the original purpose of their collection, the additional
prior to data processing, inform the data subject about this different purpose and everything else necessary
must inform you of information. If the data controller cannot provide information to the data subject
about the origin of personal data, as they come from different sources,
general information must be provided."

According to recital (65) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "The data subject is entitled
to be able to request the correction of his personal data and he has the right to do so
"right to be forgotten" if the retention of the data in question violates this regulation or that
EU or member state law, the scope of which extends to the data controller. The affected
is particularly entitled to have his personal data deleted and no longer processed if a
collecting or otherwise managing personal data with the original purposes of data management
context is no longer necessary, or if the data subjects have withdrawn the data for processing
their given consent, or if the handling of their personal data is not satisfactory in other respects
and this regulation. This right is particularly important if the person concerned gave it as a child
your consent when you were not yet fully aware of the risks of data management,
and later you want to remove the personal data in question, especially from the Internet.
The person concerned can exercise this right even if he is no longer a child. At the same time, the personal
the further retention of data can be considered legal if the expression of opinion and
exercising the right to freedom of information is a legal obligation
compliance, or the execution of a task carried out in the public interest or entrusted to the data controller
due to the exercise of a public authority, or in the public interest affecting the field of public health,
for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, for scientific and historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
purpose, or necessary for the presentation, enforcement or defense of legal claims."

Pursuant to recital (69) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "Any person concerned
the right to have the data relating to their unique situation must also be ensured
object to its processing if the personal data can be processed legally, because it is
for data management in the public interest, or the exercise of a public authority granted to the data controller
to perform a task within the framework of, or the data controller or a third party is entitled
it is necessary based on your interests. The data controller proves that you are with the interests of the data subject
against his fundamental rights and freedoms, his compelling legitimate interest
can have priority."

Based on Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the general data protection
regulation must be applied to personal data in part or in whole in an automated manner
processing, as well as those personal data in a non-automated manner

 
 

7

which are part of a registration system or which
they want to make it part of a registration system.

According to Article 4, point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "personal data": you are identified
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); can be identified
the natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular
identifier such as name, number, location data, online identifier or natural
to a person's physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity
can be identified based on one or more relevant factors.

Based on Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data management": personal
any performed on data or data files in an automated or non-automated manner
operation or a set of operations, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation, storage,
transformation or change, query, insight, use, transmission of communication,
by means of distribution or other means of making available, coordination or
connection, restriction, deletion or destruction.

Based on Article 4, point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation: "data controller": the natural one
or legal person, public authority, agency or any other body that a
the purposes and means of processing personal data independently or together with others
define; if the purposes and means of data management are determined by EU or member state law
and, the data manager or the special aspects regarding the designation of the data manager
can also be determined by EU or member state law.
Pursuant to Article 4, point 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation: "data protection incident": a
breach of security that is transmitted, stored or otherwise handled personal data
accidental or illegal destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized
results in disclosure or unauthorized access to them.

According to Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation

(1) Personal data:

a) handling legally and fairly, as well as in a transparent manner for the data subject

must be carried out ("legality, due process and transparency");

b) it should be collected only for specific, clear and legal purposes, and not those
be treated in a manner inconsistent with these purposes; of Article 89 (1).
accordingly, the public interest is not considered incompatible with the original purpose
for archiving purposes, for scientific and historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
further data processing ("target binding");

c) they must be appropriate and relevant in terms of the purposes of data management, and

they must be limited to what is necessary ("data sparing");

d) they must be accurate and, if necessary, up-to-date; all reasonable measures
must be done in order to ensure that it is inaccurate in terms of the purposes of data management
have personal data promptly deleted or corrected ("accuracy");

e) must be stored in a form that allows the identification of the data subjects only a
enables the processing of personal data for the time necessary to achieve its goals; the
Personal data may only be stored for a longer period of time if
insofar as the processing of personal data is in accordance with Article 89 (1).
for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, for scientific and historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
will take place for the purpose of the rights and freedoms of those concerned in this regulation
appropriate prescribed for its protection
provisions
subject to its implementation ("limited storage");
f) must be handled in such a way that it is appropriate

technical or organizational
ensured by applying measures
the personal data must be correct
security, unauthorized or illegal handling of data, accidental loss,
including protection against its destruction or damage ("integrity and
confidential nature")

technical and organizational

 

 
 

8

According to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is responsible for (1)
for compliance with paragraph and must also be able to demonstrate this compliance
("accountability").

Based on Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data only
can be handled legally if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:

a) the data subject has given his consent to the processing of his personal data for one or more specific purposes

for its treatment;

b) data management is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party
party, or the steps taken at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
necessary to do;

c) data management is necessary to fulfill the legal obligation of the data controller;
d) data management is vital for the data subject or another natural person

necessary to protect your interests;

e) data processing is in the public interest or the data controller is authorized by a public authority

necessary for the execution of a task performed in the context of its exercise;

f) data management to enforce the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the person concerned take precedence over these interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms that make personal data protection
necessary, especially if a child is involved.

Pursuant to Article 7 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the data management
is based on consent, the controller must be able to prove that it is
consented to the processing of the personal data concerned.

According to Article 7 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the consent of the data subject
given in the context of a written statement that also applies to other matters, a
request for consent in a way that is clearly distinguishable from these other cases
must be presented in an understandable and easily accessible form, with clear and simple language. The
any part of such statement containing the consent of the affected person which violates e
decree does not have binding force.

Based on Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
upon request, the data controller shall delete the personal data concerning him without undue delay
data, and the data controller is obliged to provide the personal data concerning the data subject
delete it without undue delay if any of the following reasons apply:

a) the personal data are no longer needed for the purpose for which they were collected or

treated differently;

b) the data subject revokes Article 6 (1) point a) or Article 9 (2)
in accordance with point a) of paragraph
there is no other legal basis for data processing;

c) the data subject objects to the processing of his data on the basis of paragraph (1) of Article 21, and there is no
overriding legitimate reason for data processing, or the data subject is subject to Article 21 (2)
objects to data processing based on paragraph;

d) personal data were handled unlawfully;
e) the personal data is prescribed by EU or Member State law applicable to the data controller

must be deleted to fulfill a legal obligation;

f) for the collection of personal data referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 8, informational

it took place in connection with the offering of services related to society.

Based on Article 25 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data manager is science
and the state of technology and the costs of implementation, as well as the nature and scope of data management,
its circumstances and purposes, as well as the rights and freedoms of natural persons,
taking into account risk of variable probability and severity, all data management
when determining the method, as well as during data management such appropriate technical and
implements organizational measures, such as aliasing, which are aimed, on the one hand, at
effective implementation of data protection principles, such as data saving, on the other hand, e

9

 
 

to fulfill the requirements contained in the decree and to protect the rights of the data subjects
the inclusion of necessary guarantees in the data management process.

Pursuant to Article 25 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is appropriate
implements technical and organizational measures to ensure that default
according to that, only personal data that is specific to the given case shall be processed
necessary from the point of view of data management purposes. This obligation applies to the collected
the amount of personal data, the extent of their processing,
for the duration and
their accessibility. In particular, these measures must ensure that a
personal data by default without the intervention of the natural person
become accessible to an unspecified number of people.

their storage

According to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, all interested parties are entitled to file a complaint
with a supervisory authority - in particular your usual place of residence, place of work or
in the Member State where the alleged infringement took place - if, according to the judgment of the data subject, the
the processing of relevant personal data violates this regulation.
 
2. CXC of 2011 on national public education. law

Pursuant to § 43, paragraph (1), in the document management regulations of the public education institution, if any
preparation is not mandatory, it is issued as an appendix to the SZMSZ of the public education institution
the institutional data management and transmission must be defined in the data management regulations
order. Education and training in the preparation and modification of the data management regulations
in the institution, the parent organization and the
school and dormitory student government
has the right to comment. For data transmission, the head of the public education institution and - a
within the framework of authorization - the manager or other employee authorized by him
is eligible.

(2) Parental permission for voluntary data provision shall be registered until the end of the limitation period
must be kept.
 
3. In the absence of a different provision of the General Data Protection Regulation, the request was initiated
for official data protection procedure, Art. provisions shall be applied in Infotv
with certain deviations.

The Akr. On the basis of § 103, paragraph (1), an application was made to the Ákr. for ex officio procedures
the provisions relating to procedures in Art. 103 and 104. shall be subject to deviations
apply.

Infotv. According to § 61, paragraph (1), point a), it was made in the official data protection procedure
in its decision, the Authority issued Infotv. Data management defined in paragraph (2) of § 2
in connection with operations according to Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may apply legal consequences.
 
Based on points b), c) and d) of Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
authority, acting in its corrective powers, condemns the data controller or it
data processor, if his data management activities violated the provisions of this regulation; instructs
the data manager or the data processor to fulfill the data subject according to this regulation
your request to exercise your rights; instructs the data controller or data processor to
data management operations - where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period of time -
bring it into line with the provisions of this regulation.

Infotv. 75/A. pursuant to § 83 (2)-(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority
exercises its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
especially with the fact that you are in the legislation regarding the handling of personal data
The regulations defined in the mandatory legal act of the European Union are being implemented for the first time

 
 

10

in case of violation, to remedy the violation with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in accordance with - takes action primarily with the warning of the data manager or data processor.

Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
and the right to access data of public interest and public interest
control and promotion of the validity of personal data in the European Union
facilitating its free flow within. According to paragraph (2a) of the same §, the general
tasks and powers established for the supervisory authority in the data protection decree
general data protection for legal entities under the jurisdiction of Hungary
is exercised by the Authority as defined in the decree and this law.

Infotv. According to Section 60 (1), enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
in order to do so, the Authority will initiate a data protection official procedure at the request of the data subject.

In the absence of a different provision of the General Data Protection Regulation, the application was initiated
for official data protection procedure CL. of 2016 on general public administrative order.
Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) shall be applied as specified in the Infotv
with differences.

The Akr. On the basis of § 17, the authority's powers and jurisdiction are all the proceedings
examines ex officio in the If you notice a lack of one, and without a doubt
the authority with jurisdiction over the case can be determined, the case will be transferred to it
in its absence, the application is rejected or the procedure is terminated.

The Akr. According to § 36, the request is submitted by the customer in writing or in person
declaration, with which he requests the conduct of official proceedings and the authority's decision for his rights
or in order to enforce your legitimate interest. Infotv. According to § 60 (2), it is
77 of the General Data Protection Regulation is a request to initiate a data protection official procedure.
may be submitted in the case specified in paragraph (1) of Article

The Akr. Section 46, subsection (1), point a) states that the Authority will reject the application if
the legally defined condition for initiating the procedure is missing, and the Ákr. to that
it does not have any other legal consequences.

Infotv. Pursuant to § 60, subsection (5), in the case specified in subsection (2) a
application contains more than what is specified in the Acr

a) indication of the alleged infringement,
b) a description of the specific behavior or state of action that led to the alleged violation,
c) to identify the data manager or data processor who committed the alleged violation

necessary data available to the applicant,

d) the facts supporting the allegations related to the presumed violation of law and those

evidence, furthermore

e) a definite request for a decision to remedy the indicated infringement.

 
 

III. Decision of the Authority
 
III.1. Examining the data management practices and the Data Protection Policy of the Requested Party
 
The Regulations were adopted by the Board of Education on August 30, 2018.
according to the decision, it is valid from the date of acceptance. The Regulations on September 3, 2018
commented by the school's parent organization and the student community.
 
According to the introduction of the Regulations, the XXX Foundation Kindergarten, Primary School and Elementary School
The educational body of the public education institution School of Arts is Infotv. based on, in accordance with
with the relevant provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation - on national public education
2011 CXC. Act § 70. It was accepted by acting in accordance with the authority provided in point k) of paragraph (2).
the Regulation in order to "be involved in information and data management

11

 
 

inform persons of the personal information managed in the institution and forwarded from there
on the legal purity of the protection of data and other legally protected information, the data
on the legality of its management, protection and data transfer process."
 
2.3.1 of the Regulations. subsection, it was recorded that the processing of personal data is complete
process, the data protection principles1, which can also be listed, must apply at the same time
were costed. The subsequent 2.3.2. according to the wording of the subsection, from the point of view of the Regulations, it is
purpose of data management: communication.
 
IV of the Regulations. contains the provisions on data protection incidents.
4.2 of this according to subparagraph d), it can be assessed as a particularly high risk level
the nature of a data protection incident if "on the institutional website or social Internet sharing
personal data (e.g. images, audio, audiovisual files) is disclosed on the
from which the data subject becomes identifiable; [...]"
 
Point V of the Regulations sets out the specific actions taken by the Applicant as a public education institution
the obligation of prior information related to data management, its fulfillment
way.
 
VI of the Regulations. point contains the Data Protection Officer of the Requested
rules. In the case of the applicant, data protection
director-
his deputy was appointed. 6.6 of the Regulations. subsection lists it in detail - from a) to m).
the data protection officer's strengthening of data security, the enforcement of the rights of the affected parties
its activities aimed at promoting According to the list, it is the responsibility of the data protection officer
among other things, practical and administrative tasks related to data protection incidents
provision, the preparation and continuous updating of the text of the preliminary information, that is
participation in the exercise of data subject rights, keeping the data protection register, a
cooperation with the supervisory authority, as well as in matters related to data management
maintains contact and consults with the supervisory authority.
 
Annex No. 4 of the Regulations is informative on the scope of the data registered in the institution
is entitled "parent/student", which contains photographs taken at school events
findings regarding its treatment: "On the school events organized in the institution
in order to provide information about the events on the institution's website and publications
post photographs that may include students or groups of students.
If the student of the institution or his guardian declares that he does not wish
to appear in photographs taken by the school, signed by the guardian and the student
must be indicated in a statement to the head of the institution."
 
Regulation No. 8 annex contains the "statement appearing on the institution's website

as an official Applicant

 

 

1 Regulation 2.3.1 In the entire process of handling personal data, the following data protection must apply at the same time
principles:

a) processing of data only in accordance with legal regulations, within the framework of a fair procedure for the data subject
can be carried out transparently, during which the data subject can gain insight into the management of their data at any time,
by exercising his rights, and he also has the opportunity to exercise the
your right to a legal remedy;

b) the processing of personal data is limited to the purpose, to the extent and for the time absolutely necessary to achieve the purpose

c)

can be handled or stored;
during the use of the data, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the data management, its accuracy and completeness
data controller must pay special attention;

d) data management must be carried out in such a way that appropriate technical-IT or organizational measures
adequate security of personal data should be ensured with its application, the data is unauthorized or illegal
including protection against handling, accidental loss, destruction or damage;

e) the data user must always be able to verify the criteria of legal data management during data processing.

 

 
 

12

for the consent-based management of personal data" document, which
according to the data subject's signature, the person concerned agrees that the XXX Foundation Kindergarten, Primary School and
The name of the child may appear on the website of the Elementary School of Arts (www.xxx.hu).
in the class list, in the competition results, or the child's photo may appear
in an identifiable manner.
 
After reviewing the Regulations, the Authority found that the Respondent a
Declaration according to Annex No. 8 of the Regulations by the legal representative of the Applicant
the recording and sharing of the infringing video recording, as well as on the website, was considered his signature
the legal basis for disclosure.
 
However, according to the Authority's point of view, the consent given by the Applicants at the beginning of the academic year
only creates the legal basis for the following data management:
the child's name may appear on the school website

- in the class list and
- at the competition results, respectively
- the child's photo may appear in an unidentifiable manner.

 
According to the Authority's point of view, the recording of the children's festive performance and its narrowness
distribution, and the publication of the YouTube link on the website
are considered separate data management actions (recording the recording, uploading the recording a
to a YouTube channel, publishing the YouTube link on the institution's website, a
Sharing a YouTube link by e-mail), which are legal if
with regard to all data management, the data controller has clear,
with appropriate informed consent.
 
The Authority states that "unlisted" on the YouTube video sharing interface is not
public - despite the data protection setting, data security may be compromised if
the video URL is shared in an uncontrollable way. On the YouTube help interface
according to the information found, the non-public videos and playlists with the link
anyone can see and share. To watch the video, it is not necessary that those with whom
the video will be shared, have a Google account. Anyone with the link again
you can share the video. Non-public videos will not appear on your own channel
on the "Videos" tab of your home page. They don't even appear in YouTube search results,
unless someone adds the non-public video to a public playlist.
 
The Authority further states that the Respondent's Regulation is the exercise of the rights of the data subject
contains inadequate provisions regarding insurance.
 
3.1 of the Regulations. according to the paragraph of point "[...] Enforcement of these rights - stakeholder rights -
in order to enforce the data protection officer of the institution concerned
find the one you want to validate in person or in writing (electronically).
by submitting a request for entitlement, but the institution responsible can contact you with your request
manager, or the employee performing data management/processing, who according to the regulations
the person concerned is informed. If this is not possible, your request will be forwarded to data protection
to an official. [...]"
 
6.6 of the Regulations. point i) designates the data protection officer in the exercise of the data subject's rights
as a contributor. At the same time, based on the Regulations, the data protection officer only
he is informed of the request to exercise the data subject's rights if it was submitted directly to him
in, or if informing the head of the institution or the employee performing data management
"impassable road".
 
According to Legitimation Clause X of the Regulations, the Regulations are open to all interested parties

 
 

13

a copy can be viewed by the school director or the institution
on his website. At the same time, the Authority reviewed the website of the Applicant (www.xxxxx.hu) and
makes the following findings in this regard:

- The website contains data management information related to the website
(http://www.xxxxxxx.pdf), the Regulations sent by the Applicant to the Authority
not available.

- The publication list available on the Applicant's website does not include the Regulations
(http://www.xxxxxxx.pdf), only the data protection officer
(who
in person is the same as the data protection officer specified in the Regulations).
are found.

officer

in addition to its activities in their educational program,

 
 
III.2.1. The position of the Authority in this case
 
The Authority considers the protection of personal data to be extremely important in this official procedure
as well as the consideration and emphasis of basic children's rights.
 
According to the Authority's point of view, for the healthy physical, mental and spiritual development of children, a
education is essential for their socialization into the community
institutions everyday
respectively
participation in institutional events specified in the curriculum. For these holidays,
in events related to celebrations, the child has his own right and interest
to participate actively as a member of their micro-community, their ability to express themselves, intellectually,
promote his emotional and moral development.
 
There is no doubt that public education and public education institutions (hereafter collectively:
institution) the results of the work carried out by the children are unique and communal
through his performances, he can present which events are often made into pictures and
video recordings. Especially during the pandemic, it is difficult to maintain direct contact
strengthened the use of alternative communication tools and opportunities. Present
in this case, the video recording was made of the Christmas performance, and it is for sharing the recording
the aim was that, in line with the previous (pre-pandemic) practice, the institution
let the children's production, the Christmas greeting, also reach his family community.
 
With regard to institutional data management that captures the participation of children, the Authority
emphasizes: it is extremely important that the public education institution that manages the data consciously
think about the plan he has planned for the given educational year - which includes data management -
the range of activities and events, so not only the individual, but also the community, together with this
can keep the interests of all children in mind.
 
About the program that specifically requires the participation of one or more or all children
in the case of a video recording to be made, with a preliminary assessment of the parents' intentions right from the beginning
the upcoming performance can be shaped in such a way that a
for recording and its possible
the participation of the children of parents who consent to its sharing can be legally immortalized
be. The careful one
to make a recording
the children of parents who do not give their consent can also be properly included in the
in the program, since it does not serve the interests of children at all if it is for data protection reasons
because of this, they miss out on social appearances.
 
In the case of unlimited public sharing of recordings of children on the Internet
is no longer sufficient for parents and legal representatives anyway
the right to protest, in which case parents must be guaranteed an active decision-making position
for them, the data of their minor child is unrestricted, due to the fact that it can be read by anyone, therefore
it is necessary to obtain informed, written, prior consent for such data management.

it can also be ensured that the

it is by design

 
 

14

[See NAIH/2018/6083/V.2]
 
In the present case, the Authority made public the performance of children by the Applicant
the legality of data processing related to the recording of the recording video, as well as the data subject
examined the provision of legal practice.
 
Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation contains the main principles that a
when handling personal data, data controllers must take into account and which
must be continuously enforced during data management. Such a principle includes, among others, a
legality, fair procedure and transparency, purposefulness, data saving,
the principle of accuracy and limited storage. [General Data Protection Regulation Article 5 (1)
paragraph point a)-e)] From the principle of accountability [General Data Protection Regulation Article 5 (2)
paragraph], the data controller is therefore responsible for compliance with the basic principles of data protection,
in addition, it must be able to verify this compliance, and the controller must also be able to
there must also be proof of this compliance. Based on this, the data controller is obliged to document and
record data processing so that its legality can be proven afterwards. Such
basic principles include data saving3, limited storage capacity4 and purpose-bound
principle of data management5.
 
Among the basic principles, the General Data Protection Regulation also states that personal
data management "must be carried out in such a way that appropriate technical or organizational
adequate security of personal data should be ensured by applying measures, that is
unauthorized or illegal processing, accidental loss or destruction of data
or protection against its damage ("integrity and confidentiality")."6
 
An essential condition for the legality of data management is that it has an appropriate legal basis
be.
 
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the management of personal data
about its possible legal grounds, i.e. the cases where data processing may be legal,
as far as the other provisions of the general data protection regulation, in particular that
also complies with the basic principles of data protection.
 
The legal basis for processing the personal data of a natural person can be based, for example

- on the consent of the person concerned,
-
-

in connection with the creation or performance of a contract,
you are fulfilling a legal obligation

 

 

2 The Authority classified recordings made by parents of their children at events as exceptions for household purposes, even if
if they include other children (NAIH/2018/6083/V.). It should be emphasized that the Authority only these recordings
assessed its creation as data processing for household purposes, if the creator had uploaded these images to the Internet, the
data management would fall under the scope of the GDPR.
3 Article 5 (1) point c of the General Data Protection Regulation: "personal data from the point of view of the purposes of data management
they must be appropriate and relevant and limited to what is necessary ("data sparing").
4 Article 5 (1) point e) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "personal data must be stored in a form that
which enables the identification of data subjects only for the time necessary to achieve the goals of personal data management; the
personal data may only be stored for a longer period of time if the personal data is to be processed
in accordance with Article 89 (1) for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, or for the purpose of scientific and historical research
will be carried out for statistical purposes, as prescribed in this regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects
taking into account the implementation of technical and organizational measures ("limited storage capacity");"
5 Article 5 (1) point b of the General Data Protection Regulation: "collected only for specific, clear and legitimate purposes
take place and not be treated in a manner inconsistent with these purposes; in accordance with Article 89 (1).
is not considered incompatible with the original purpose of archiving in the public interest, scientific and historical research
further data processing for a purpose or for statistical purposes ("target binding")"
6 Article 5 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation

15

 
 

- also in the legitimate interests of the data controller7, in which case, however, the start of data management

before the data controller must prepare a so-called interest assessment test.

 
In the case of the institution, a suitable legal basis may be if the institution has so-called "consenting
declaration" from students, the children's legal representatives (parents), teachers,
that is, if the data subjects give their clear consent to one or more of their personal data
for its treatment for a specific purpose.
 
Pursuant to the General Data Protection Regulation, the consent of the data subject is required by the data subject
voluntary, specific and appropriate to his will
informed and clear
declaration, with which the relevant declaration or confirmation is unmistakable
indicates through an expressive act that he gives his consent to the personal data concerning him
for its management.8
 
The concept of consent is based on four conjunctive conditions. On the one hand, the contribution
it must be voluntary, which means that the person concerned has a real or free choice
have the opportunity to give consent. On the other hand, the contribution
it must be specific, which basically requires the exact identification of the goals
from the data controller, and that if the data subject gives his consent for different purposes
plans to handle personal data, the consent of the data subject is required for each purpose
to get Thirdly, the consent must be based on adequate information, which
not only as defined by the general data protection regulation, the content of the information is mandatory
means the existence of its elements, but also that the information is concise, transparent and understandable
should be formulated and easily accessible to the person concerned. Finally it is
to the data controller
must also ensure that the person concerned makes his will clear
be able to declare, that is, the person concerned must be able to agree with an active act or statement
to data management.
 
Adequate information plays a central role in the application of the legal basis for consent
loads. The other conceptual elements included in the definition of contribution (voluntariness, a
concreteness and clarity of consent) can be fully enforced if a
the request for consent was preceded by adequate information. If the data controller does not provide
accessible information for those concerned, then the disposition over the data
will be apparent and consent will become an invalid legal basis for data processing.
 
Based on the above, in this case the consent of the Applicant is then valid and appropriate
legal basis if it is voluntary, i.e. if the Applicant is any disadvantage or damage related to it
you can decide not to be included in the photo and/or video recording. The validity
an additional condition is that it is based on specific and appropriate information, which condition then
applies if the Applicant is aware of the details of data management. This is in this particular case
means that the Respondent informs the Applicant about the fate of the image and/or video recording,
so about where it is published and on what forum it is made available to others.
 
The Authority notices that public education and public education institutions (hereafter collectively:
institutions) during its operation, institutional events indicated in the order of the educational and academic year
- which necessarily goes hand in hand with the handling of personal data - is increasingly recorded
is transferred to the arena of the Internet public.

 

 

7 General Data Protection Regulation Article 4 7. "data controller": the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or
any other body that determines the purposes and means of personal data management independently or together with others;
if the purposes and means of data management are determined by EU or member state law, the data controller or to appoint the data controller
relevant special aspects may also be determined by EU or member state law;
8 Article 4, point 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation

16

 
 


In the case of data management on non-Internet platforms, the Authority acknowledges that a
data management related to each institutional event organized during the academic year
in its case, it places an almost impossible administrative burden on institutions and teachers
and for parents, the appropriate, detailed information based on written data management
obtaining contributions.
 
At the same time, the Authority emphasizes the existence of general data management consent
institution from the obligation that each planned
does not exempt it
about data management before the event separately,
verifiably detailed
provide data management information to the parent/legal representative as follows
with content:

- indication of the event at which the data processing takes place,
- in relation to which personal data of the child is processed

(image, sound, image and sound, other personal data);

- place of data management,
- duration of data management;
- informing the parent and drawing their attention to the general data protection regulation

to his right to protest.

 
In addition to the above, the Authority also expects the institutions to ensure that a
parent/legal representative for the objection provided in the general data protection regulation
know your right easily, without obstacles and in time, before the start of the planned data processing
practice.
 
With regard to internet data management, information alone is not enough
in these cases, obtaining the written consent of the parent/legal representative is mandatory,
which must be acquired by the institution prior to data processing,
bearing in mind that the parent/legal representative can object to data processing at any time
in connection with and may revoke your previously given consent to data management.
 
Despite the fact that it imposes an additional administrative burden on the Applicant, the position of the Authority
according to him, it is inevitable that it was made about children who have a legal relationship with the institution
video recordings on the Applicant's website or on the sharing portals he uses
to disclose or share it separately for each recording
have parental consent.

In addition, the Authority considers it necessary to have parental declarations with different content at the moment
unification, as well as the declaration, in addition to the information contained above
addition with date.
 
 
III.2.2. The enforcement of data protection principles in relation to the data management of the Respondent
 
Lawfulness of data management
 
Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation contains the main principles that a
must be taken into account when handling personal data, and which are constantly
must apply during data management. Such a principle includes legality,
fair procedure and transparency, purposefulness, data economy, accuracy and
the principle of limited storability [5. Article (1) point a)-e)].
 
Paragraphs a)-f) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation contain those a
legal bases, at least one of which can be considered legitimate if the personal one is valid
data management.

17

 
 


The Authority with regard to the legality of data management - in the general data protection regulation
in accordance with the provisions - represents the position according to which the data controllers have
they must implement the personal
data protection. Accordingly, the processing of personal data is defined in advance,
for a clear and legitimate purpose, for the time necessary to achieve the stated purpose, is appropriate
by applying technical and organizational measures, it must be done in such a way that the data management
during the act, the adequate security of the handled personal data must be guaranteed.
 
Above all, the Authority emphasizes that the recording of the infringing video recording or
its (in a limited range)
disclosure is different from each other, separately
is considered data management, in respect of which the Requested, as a data controller, separately
with a legal basis, and if the legal basis for data management is the data subject or his legal representative
your consent, then you must have a separate consent.
 
 
In the present case, it investigates whether the Respondent recorded the offending video recording and
did you act legally in terms of making it accessible: i.e. on the consent referred to
with regard to data management based on whether the Applicant had separate consent,
as well as whether he provided complete information to the Applicant prior to the contributions
about the relevant data management.
 
Based on the information obtained by the Authority during the clarification of the facts, the Applicant
sufficiently substantiated that the recording of the video recorded by the Applicant
the parents of all children affected by the admission (thus the Applicant) accordingly
informed about the data management related to the preparation of the recording - by the way, this is done by the Applicant
his parents didn't dispute it either - and after that, on December 17, 2020, the institution became a family institution
community, the Requester sent the access to the offending video recording by e-mail
path to "XXXXXXX." with title.
 
 
In view of the above, the Authority accepts the offending video recording in the investigated case
made by the parents at the beginning of the educational year as the legal basis for the data management related to the recording
general consent, as well as discussions with the parents before the children's performance
informative correspondence.
 
At the same time, the Authority states that the video recording on the institutional website and
to the Applicant regarding its publication on the institutional YouTube channel
it should have had a separate consent from the Applicant, as it is general
consent did not (and could not) apply to the video recording on institutional YouTube
channel, or to publish the access path on the institution's website.
 
According to the Authority's point of view, the examined video recording was made in the ways detailed above
with regard to the legal basis for its publication, the Respondent could not acceptably prove that
that the parents were adequately and comprehensively informed by the person portraying their child
about the place and duration of the publication of the video recording.
 
Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation contains the main principles that a
must be taken into account when handling personal data, and which are constantly
must apply during data management. Such a principle includes legality,
fair procedure and transparency [5. Article (1) point a)], as well as
accountability [5. Article (2)] principle.
 
By the fact that the Applicant's father signed the data management consent at the beginning of the year, as well as

 
 

18

with the fact that the Applicant's parents to the kindergarten teachers' informational e-mails - in which it was marked as
purpose of data management, and information was provided about the participation of children and the making of the video
- they did not express their objection, they accepted the purpose of the data management and that the Applicant (a
their child) will be part of the performance that is videotaped and which
it will be sent as a Christmas greeting to the institution's family community.
 
At the same time, however, the Respondent did not inform a
The applicant's parents, and thus the applicant, did not provide for the applicant
exercise the right to exercise their right to delete the video recording
uploading it to the institutional YouTube channel or on the institutional website
regarding its publication.
 
During the procedure, the Authority has all the information at its disposal
establishes that the Respondent has violated the aggrieved data processing
legality and transparency according to Article 5 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle.

In addition, a violation of Article 6 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
implemented by the fact that the applicant is clear about the video recording that is infringed by the applicant
and was made public by him in the absence of his consent based on adequate information
on the institutional YouTube channel, as well as the YouTube link on the institutional website
by publication.
 
 
The principle of accountability
 
The Authority also consistently emphasizes in the investigated case that the data management
ensuring the legality of the data management in all stages of the data management, i.e
in this case, the obligation of the Respondent.
 
Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation establishes the principle of accountability,
according to which the data controller is responsible for the legal management of personal data, and
must be able to demonstrate this compliance. Based on these, data management is for the Requested
from its planning to the start of data management, all the way to personal data
until it is deleted, you must implement all data management operations in such a way that at any time
can prove how the data management process complied with data protection
regulations,
data controller
obligations.
 
By being uploaded as an "unlisted", i.e. non-public video, the institution's Youtube
channel of the aggrieved video recording for the legality of data processing to the Requested Party
must have the legal representative of the children affected by the admission, including the Applicant
also with his consent.
 
Based on the applicant's statements made during the procedure and the attached documents a
The Authority established that the Respondent had, in its view, violated the data management legislation
it was not in relation to its data management practices based on erroneous conclusions
is able to adequately verify the data protection of the data management complained about by the Applicant
compliance with basic principles. This is how the video recording complained about by the Applicant was requested
in relation to making it available in a narrow circle, the legal basis for consent is legal
was unable to prove that the information prior to data processing was adequate,
its occurrence with content covering all relevant information, as well as the Applicant
the existence of his consent.
 
Taking all of this into account, the Authority found that the Respondent was not present in this case

data protection

general

decree

according to

respectively

the

 
 

19

is able to demonstrate compliance with the data protection regulations of the affected data management,
thereby violating the provisions of Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle of accountability.
 
 
Purposefulness, data saving, and built-in and default data protection
enforcement of the principle
 
The main principle of the data protection regulation is the principle of purpose-boundness, which is its essential content
according to this principle, all data processing must have a legitimate purpose, the purpose in advance
must be determined. Article 5(1)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
includes the requirement of being tied to a goal. Accordingly, the collection of personal data only
it can be done for a specific, clear and legitimate purpose, and the data only for these purposes
be treated in a compatible manner.
 
Regarding the essential content of purpose-boundness, the purpose of data management is of fundamental importance
determination, which is the responsibility of the data controller.
 
The purpose of data management must be clearly and unambiguously defined so that the data subjects understand it
they can interpret. That is, the goal must be expressed and clearly communicated
those concerned.
 
THE
data saving
(data minimization) principle [5. Article (1) point c)], as it is only the purpose of data management
personal data necessary to achieve this goal can be processed: always
the given data must be compared to the given goal, and a decision must be made based on this, actually
whether it is necessary to achieve the goal and whether it is really suitable for it. If the purpose of data management
changes, then the question of the legal basis, the necessity, must be judged in accordance with this goal
principle and the validity of other guarantees. If the data management purpose ceases, it is deleted
there is an obligation.

requirement

is related

close

constraint

for purpose

the

Personal data can be processed to the extent and for the time necessary to achieve the goal.
In addition, the data must be adequate and relevant. Only so and so
personal data can be processed, which is necessary and at the same time sufficient for the purpose of data management
to reach. This is the so-called necessity criterion, also known as the principle of data saving
means that before data processing begins, it must be checked whether it is necessary, if so,
to what extent, personal data to be processed to achieve the goal to be achieved.
 
In the framework of the present procedure, the Authority examined several interrelated data management
their purposefulness, data saving, and built-in and default
enforcement of data protection.
 
Defining the scope of necessary, appropriate and relevant data for data management on a case-by-case basis
to be considered in case, for the decision of which the purpose of data management is precise and specific
its name is essential, because it can be withdrawn in relation to the data management
limit of personal data concerned.
 
A "built-in and
default data protection" [Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation]. In that sense, it is
the data controller must ensure that it is only as personal through the measures it takes
data should be processed that are relevant to the specific data management purpose
are necessary. This aspect of necessity must prevail in the data
also in terms of quantity, degree of treatment, storage period and accessibility.
 
 

20

 
 

Record the video recording
 
The video recording complained about by the Applicant was presented by a group of preschool children
included a nativity performance, in which the Applicant also appeared. This recording has been uploaded
the Applicant to the institutional YouTube channel and forwarded its access path
as a Christmas greeting to the institution's family community by e-mail, as well as
by publishing the access path, he made it public on the institutional website.

According to the Authority's point of view, the institutions should operate either state or otherwise
maintenance, their basic purpose is to show parents and grandparents that a
what kind of development the children in their care go through, either in groups or
what new goals are achieved individually, how the child's personality and individuality develop,
how your knowledge expands.

The joint production of the kindergarten group forms the unit. If the institution
leave out even one child
also, negative discrimination is disadvantageous to the child
may result in discrimination. This is especially true in the present case, since the Applicant
according to his father's deletion request to the YouTube team, his child can be seen in full
in the video, he also sings a solo song and participates in the group songs, so it is for the Applicant
had a prominent role in the performance. After watching the video recording, that is the conclusion
it can be deduced that the Applicant only pays for the performance itself, for the children's productions
focused during its recording.

It can therefore be concluded that for the recording of personal data in a video recording
During related data processing, the Respondent did not violate the general data protection rules
purpose limitation according to Article 5 (1) point b) of the Regulation, nor Article 5 (1)
c) the principle of data saving.
 
 
Publish the recorded video
 
The Authority is the complained video recording on the institutional YouTube channel, as well as the institution
in the case of disclosure made on its website, it also examined the purpose-bound
data management and the principle of data saving, related to the built-in and
enforcement of default data protection.
 
In this regard, he established that the Applicant was also on the two institutional platforms
with the data management related to the published publication as determined by him in advance
in relation to the purpose of data management, it became known to a circle exceeding the target group
damaged video recording, and thus the personal data processed in it. Purposefulness
at the same time as its damage, the principle of data saving is also damaged, since it is the original data management purpose
exceeding the extent and data management time necessary for its implementation was unlimited
a video recording containing the Applicant's personal data can be viewed.

The Authority is the principle of built-in and default data protection, the complained public
highlights in relation to its examination of insurance data management, despite the fact that
that the Respondent took technical measures on the affected video recording on the YouTube channel
to limit its visibility resulting from its publication ("unlisted" video), by
that the availability of the YouTube channel of the video recording is made public on the institutional website
brought, provided anyone with unlimited access to the personal information handled in the video recording
for data.

 
Based on the above, the Authority established that the Complainant is the video recording complained of
on the institutional YouTube channel, as well as its access path on the institutional website
5 of the General Data Protection Regulation during its data management related to its publication.
necessity and data saving according to Article (1) and according to Article 25

21

 
 

built-in and default data protection principle.
 
 
Ensuring the exercise of stakeholder rights
 
In order to ensure transparent data management, the data controller is, as a general rule, obliged to -
in a proactive manner - to provide appropriate information to those concerned about data management
before starting. This right is primarily intended to make data subjects aware that it is
data controller wishes to process personal data in relation to them. Accordingly, the
the content of information is differentiated according to the personal data to be handled directly
whether they are collected from the data subject (Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation), or whether they are collected by others
obtained from a source by the data controller (Article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation).
 
The general limitation of the right to information is the case when the data subject already
has the relevant
with information. In this case, the data controller is
with regard to the principle of accountability - he is obliged to prove this fact.
 
In the present investigation, in relation to the creation of the offending video recording, the Respondent a
He duly proved to the authorities that the people involved, including the Applicant's parents
they had the necessary information.
 
However, with regard to the disclosure of the completed video recording, the Respondent did not
was able to substantiate with documents that the persons concerned are suitable
with knowledge
provided for all details of data management.
 
Because the Respondent in relation to the disclosure of the completed video recording
did not provide prior information to the data subjects regarding its data management, so a
Neither for the applicant, as a result, the Authority concludes that in this respect a
The respondent violated Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
 
Ensuring the data subject's right to delete personal data
 
Pursuant to Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
that, upon request, the data controller deletes the personal data relating to him without undue delay
data, and the data controller is obliged to provide the personal data concerning the data subject
delete it without undue delay if specified in the general data protection regulation
one of the reasons exists.
 
After the general data protection regulation, the data controller is responsible for data management
for its legality, therefore the data controller has the burden of proof, so he is obliged to prove that he knows
that the data management complies with the legal conditions.
 
In response to the Requester's cancellation request made on January 29, 2021, the Requested on February 12, 2021
informed the Applicant about the manner and form in terms of visibility
limited disclosure is made. Repeated cancellation of the Applicant on February 17, 2021
at his request, the Respondent removed the offending video recording from the institutional website
pointing Youtube link.
 
On the basis of the above, the applicant graduated on the institutional website, with unlimited publicity
in relation to data management, asserted within the scope of the Applicant's exercise of data subject rights
following his request for deletion, the Respondent deleted the video from the page in compliance with it. With this
the Respondent prevented anyone who, after the data deletion, the institution
website, you can freely watch the offending video recording.

 
 

22


Consequently, in terms of this data management, the Respondent did not violate the
The applicant's right to erasure according to Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation, neither
15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
 
According to the data available to the Authority, the Applicant is the aggrieved admission
he deleted his contact information only from his institutional website, from the institutional YouTube channel
no. Therefore, on March 11, 2021, the Applicant's father contacted the
Youtube and announced that it can be published, accessed and shared without permission
video recording and requested its deletion. The investigation of the case and the Applicant on Youtube
after correspondence with his team Youtube staff on March 15, 2021
the recording was deleted.
 
The Applicant indicated the following as reasons for deleting the video recording:

"[…] our son performs a solo part (1:11-1:37; 3:20-3:45)

-
- our son is not part of the school/user (XXXX) as one of the reasons why

sets him apart from the others in the video.

- we do not have a contract with the user (XXXX)
- we did not give permission to the user (XXXX) to use our son in his digital content

or use it in your ads. [...]"

 
 
In the case of the recording published as an "unlisted" video on the institutional YouTube channel, the
Consent has been requested (Article 6 (1) point a. of the General Data Protection Regulation)
identified as the legal basis for data management. In this case, if the data subject withdraws the
the consent that forms the basis of data management, and there is no other legal basis for data management, that is
the data controller is obliged to delete the relevant data at the request of the data subject without undue delay
personal data. Since the Applicant has no legal basis other than parental consent
identified with regard to the aggrieved data management, therefore the Applicant is directed to delete it
after your request based on Article 17 (1) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
should have immediately deleted the offending video recording from the institutional YouTube
channel too.
 
The Respondent, by ignoring the Applicant's institutional YouTube
video recording available on the channel
deletion, and thus the consent of the Applicant
request to withdraw, the Applicant violated the general data protection regulation
For cancellation enforceable under Article 17 (1) point b), as well as the general
his right to exercise his rights as a data subject according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
In addition, the Authority considers it worrisome from a data security point of view for the future
"unlisted" (non-public) YouTube channel application. Instead, recommend it to the Applicant
the sharing of institutional videos in a "private" manner, only with the stakeholders.
 
The Authority is experiencing the mainstreaming of public education in Hungary
practice, according to which the data management institutions are minor children (hereinafter:
children) from their legal representatives at the beginning of each year (usually at the first parents' meeting)
general data management consent is requested. However, this does not exempt the data controller
institutions from their obligation to ensure that the children who take turns during the school year
in connection with the events necessarily associated with the processing of personal data, in advance a
legal representatives (parents) should be informed in detail, with a special mention of consent
for the possibility of withdrawal, which they are obliged to exercise in an easy, unhindered way
to assure.
 

 
 

23

The Authority draws the attention of data controllers to the fact that if children's data is unlimited
in the context of data management aimed at online publicity, they may receive extensive publicity, that is
based on the general data protection decree, the Authority expects public education and public education
preliminary, detailed and written data management information from data controllers and the information based on it
existence of parental consent.
 
 
ARC. Legal consequences
 
Based on Article 58 (1) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority a
He convicted the applicant of the violation of data protection law.
 
In the procedure conducted on the basis of the application, the Authority examined whether the
Imposition of a data protection fine against a request.
 
The Authority took into account the following factors in not imposing a fine:

1. No personal data was previously established against the Application

violation related to the handling by the Authority.

2. The video recording complained of by the Applicant is from the Internet as indicated by the Applicant

has been deleted from surfaces.

3. In the opinion of the Authority, the recording that is the subject of this procedure is made public
with regard to its production, sharing, and the data management practices of the Respondent
intentional, bad faith motivation cannot be established, it is rather the Respondent
can be traced back to the lack of data management awareness.

4. The Authority - not accepting as legal the video recording on the institutional website and
its publication on the YouTube channel - is aware of the fact that it is also followed by the Applicant,
about the data management practice common among public education and public education institutions,
deep
not with guidelines
has

with regard to the field of appropriate data management

 
The Authority was also aware that the Respondent during the procedure
cooperated with the Authority.
 
In this regard, the Authority is in accordance with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Infotv.
75/A. based on §, he considered all the circumstances of the case and, in his opinion, it is general
the Authority considers it sufficient and proportionate to fulfill the objectives of the data protection regulation
the condemnation contained in the general data protection decree, and the Data Management of the Requested
regulations and future data management practices in the general data protection regulation
transformation according to the contents.

Without disputing the violation committed by the Respondent, as well as its gravity, the Authority
evaluates as a positive the effort of the Applicant that during the pandemic - even if
not in the usual form either - present it to parents through their children's production
the development of their abilities and skills, from which the good faith and good intentions of the Applicant
can be clearly established.

In addition to all of this, with regard to the data management practices of the Respondent, the Authority calls on the
attention to increased consideration of the rules of the general data protection regulation, a
to involve a commissioned data protection officer in matters concerning personal data.
The requested obligation is also the General Data Protection Regulations currently in force
transformation in accordance with the decree and its publication on the institutional website, as well as a
detailed information necessary for the legality of future data processing and for objection
to prepare a parental consent providing the right.

The purpose of the Authority's procedure in this case is to effectively contribute to
Created with regard to the management of personal data of requested public education institution(s).

24

 
 

approach, as well as its practice in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
in working out.

Based on the above, the Authority decided in accordance with the provisions of the statutory part.
 
 
V. Rules of procedure
 
The competence of the Authority is set by Infotv. Paragraphs (2) and (2a) of § 38 define it, and its competence is
covers the entire territory of the country.
 
The Authority issues this decision in addition to the Applicant to the Respondent as the complained data controller
also sends it to
 

* * *

This decision is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. The decision is
Acr. Based on § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final upon its publication.

The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. Section 13, paragraph (3).
Based on point a) subpoint aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27 (1)
legal representation in a lawsuit within the jurisdiction of the court based on paragraph b).
obligatory. The Kp. According to paragraph (6) of § 39, the submission of the claim is administrative
does not have the effect of postponing the entry into force of the act.

The Kp. According to § 124, paragraph (6), if in the case of a collection of claims permitted by law a
some of the claim requests are processed according to the simplified procedure, and the other part according to the general rules
should be judged, the court acts according to the general rules.

The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in view of this, Pp. According to § 604, the electronic one is applicable
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. law
(hereinafter: E-administration tax) According to § 9, paragraph (1), point b), the client's legal representative
obliged to maintain electronic contact.

The time and place for filing a claim against the Authority's decision is set by Kp. Section 39 (1)
paragraph Information on the possibility of a request to hold a hearing
the Kp. It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77. The amount of the levy of the administrative lawsuit on the levies
solo XCIII of 1990 Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. The
from the advance payment of the fee to the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) h)
exempts the party initiating the procedure.

During the procedure, the Authority exceeded Infotv. 60/A. One hundred and fifty days according to paragraph (1) of §
administrative deadline, therefore the Ákr. Based on point b) of § 51, he pays ten thousand forints a
For applicants - according to the applicants' choice to be indicated in writing - to a bank account
by money order or postal order.
 
Budapest, November 17, 2021.
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

25

