Europäische Akademie für
Informationsfreiheit und Datenschutz
z.Hd.
Dr. Alexander Dix
Bismarckallee 46/48
D - 14193 Berlin

by e-mail only

Dear Dr. Dix,

20 October 2020

Ref: OUT2020-0111

Thank you very much for your letter regarding the guidance by the European Commission (EC) on Art
17 Directive (EU) 2019/790 on copyright and related rights (Copyright Directive).

Article 17 of the Copyright Directive provides for a new copyright liability regime for major online
content-sharing  service  providers.  In  practice  this  means  that  there  is an  important shift from
removing infringing content ex post through “notice and take-down”, i.e. to assess content after it has
published, to an assessment of specific content before it is put online, without requiring any specific
technical solution.

As you highlighted, the issue of upload filters and the possible impact on digital rights and fundamental
rights is very important. The EDPB considers that any processing of personal data for the purpose of
upload filters must be proportionate and necessary. Therefore, as far it is possible, no personal data
should be processed when Art 17 Copyright Directive is implemented.

While this  article provides  that the  platforms shall prevent  future  uploads of  copyright-protected
works, it does not as such stipulate that attempts to upload these material should be attributed to a
specific data subject.

In the situation when the technical solution to comply with the obligations imposed by Article 17 of
the  copyright  directive  should  nevertheless  require  processing  of  personal  data  or  of  electronic
communication data, the GDPR and/or the ePrivcay Directive need to be considered, as required by
Article 17 itself.

Where the processing of personal data is necessary, such as for the redress mechanism, such data
should only concern data necessary for this specific purpose, while applying all the other principles of
the GDPR. Regarding your second point, that neither the EDPB nor the EDPS nor any national SA has
been involved in the drafting of the EC guidelines on Art 17, we can confirm that so far we have not
received an official request by the EC for an opinion on this topic.

However, we continuously are in contact with the EC, who has presented this matter to one of our
expert subgroups. Following this presentation, we have raised questions and provided comments on

1

the current work and issues that could require specific attention and we have signalled our availability
for further collaboration on this matter.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

2

