

On the free webinar 15.3.2021. in the duration of 11:00 - 12:40 hours, all interested consumers can participate, as well as managers and executors of processing.
Link to participate in the webinar
On the occasion of World Consumer Rights Day, March 15, 2021, the Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, organizes a webinar "Consumer Personal Data Protection in the Digital Market" to raise consumer awareness of their rights to personal data protection.
The date that will go down in history as the date that marked a turning point in the field of personal data protection is May 25, 2018. On that date, in the Republic of Croatia and throughout the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation (better known as the GDPR) came into full force.
The aim of the General Data Protection Regulation is to protect the personal data of natural persons, to provide citizens with control over their personal data and to create a high and uniform level of data protection in the European Union. During the webinar, consumers will have the opportunity to find out what rights are guaranteed by the GDPR, how to protect personal data when shopping online, how applications and websites monitor and "spy" on us, which are the most common types of online fraud, and finally have the opportunity ask questions.
PROGRAM
"PROTECTION OF CONSUMER PERSONAL DATA IN THE DIGITAL MARKET"

Moderator: Sanja Smiljanić Grubišić, journalist and editor of the show "Consumer Code"
11.00 - 11.20 “CONSUMERS HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROTECT YOUR PERSONAL DATA! FIND OUT WHAT YOUR RIGHTS ARE! ”, Zdravko Vukić, AZOP, Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency
In today’s digital age, the protection of personal data is more important than ever before. When you use your mobile phone, like on social networks, surf the internet, shop online - you share your personal information with every click.
Personal information is all around us. Name, date of birth, home address, email address, IP address, location information, ID number, your diopter information, fingerprint, car license plate, your photo and many other details - ALL THIS IS YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION . Every citizen's personal data is his or her most valuable asset and can very easily be misused. CONSUMERS, YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO KNOW WHO AND FOR WHAT PURPOSE USES YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION.
11.20 - 11.40 “HOW THE PROCESSING OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA CAN AFFECT A CHANGE IN ATTITUDE”, Natalija Parlov Una, TÜV NORD, Information Security and Privacy Auditor
New business conditions in the digital economy and increasingly advanced technological capabilities have contributed to the development of amazing tools with which almost every click of yours can be tracked and capitalized. This means that it is possible to analyze and influence your choices and attitudes in great detail in real time.
Which of the personal data are of interest to large platforms, how do they make a significant profit on them, and in what ways do other companies use the same data or different services to influence a change in your attitude without you even being aware of it?
Whether you are eavesdropping on various applications and websites or just following your every step and how you can influence it and exercise your rights prescribed by the Regulation, see the lecture of behavioral marketing expert and information security and privacy auditor of the largest German certification company TÜV NORD, Natalija Parlov Une.
11:40 - 12:00 „WEB SALES AND ONLINE MARKETING“, Dijana Kladar, lawyer specializing in GDPR
Webshop sales are becoming our daily routine, and a large number of consumers have decided to buy products online. Entrepreneurs find it difficult to write legal texts such as privacy rules, do not know what a personal data protection impact assessment test is, whether they must appoint a data protection officer and what actions they must take to comply with regulations. Through the presentation we will introduce you to practical examples from previous practice.
During the lecture, we will also touch on the protection of personal data in employment relationships and where entrepreneurs often make mistakes.
12:00 - 12:20 "CRIME THROUGH THE INTERNET", Nikola Protrka, Police High School
Looking past 2020, it was noticed that the pandemic did not slow down the growth of crime via the Internet because cybercriminals are known to be accustomed to working from home. When cybercriminals steal your information, you are usually not even aware of it until they start blackmailing or using you for their own purposes. They have tried, and are succeeding, to use the pandemic, earthquake, and fear of the people as bait in their phishing or bogus donation campaigns. A large amount of stolen personal data, along with credit card numbers, can be found in illegal markets. Listen to the lecture of the Professor of the Police High School, Ph.D. Nikola Protrke.
12:20 - 12:40 CONSUMER QUESTIONS
Link to participate in the webinar
