1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00451/2019

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Mr. A.A.A., on behalf of Mr. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the
claimant) dated October 10, 2019 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against Equifax Iberica, S.L.
with NIF B80855398 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states that, on January 3, 2019, he submitted mail
requesting the cancellation of the inclusion of your data in the Asnef file
from December 10, 2018.

Subsequently, they answer that you are exercising the right of cancellation in
excess and therefore its processing is not appropriate since it was exercised on December 9,
2018.

Thus, the claimant alleges that the previous request for cancellation was
for a tax debt and the entry of your data in the Incident file
Judicial and not for those that now exercise the right of cancellation again.
In addition, the data has not been blocked for 30 days as stated in the Law
Organic 3/2018 on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

The claimant provides the following documentation:

 Notifications of inclusion of your data in the Asnef file of four debts
corresponding to three credit entities sent by the entity Equifax
Iberica, S.L. (hereinafter Equifax).
Equifax report of the data informed of the claimant to the Asnef file and
query history.

 Copy of the response of the Equifax entity to the exercise of deletion of



 Copy of the response of the Equifax entity to the exercise of deletion of

date January 3, 2019.

date January 9, 2019.

 Statement of claim
 Copy of representation authorization by D. A.A.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

On February 10, 2019 it is received in this Agency, with number of
registration 06919/2019, new document sent by the claimant clarifying that the
The claim presented to this Agency was for breach of article 20
of the Organic Law 3/2018 of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

With the notification date of February 18, 2019, the claimant is informed
that his claim was not admitted for processing because there were no reasonable indications of
the existence of an infringement within the competence of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

On February 27, 2019, this Agency received, with the number of
registration 010185/2019, written appeal from the claimant
stating, among other aspects, that the Equifax entity has failed to comply with the provisions
in art. 20.1.c of the LOPDGDD and emphasizing that it has not respected the
30-day lock-in period from your discharge date.

The claimant provides, in addition to the documentation presented in the claim,

the next documentation:



Equifax report dated December 10, 2018. In which it appears that a
On this date there was no data on the claimant in the Asnef or Asnef files.
Companies

 Communication sent by Equifax to the claimant stating that, after receiving
your request to cancel your data from the file of Judicial Incidents and
Claims from Public Organizations, your data had been canceled, and
reporting that the canceled data was obtained from public sources.
 Cancellation request email addressed to the claimant dated January 3

of 2019.

On April 1, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data, upheld the appeal filed by the claimant.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

With the notification date of April 4, 2019, the transfer of the

claim to the EQUIFAX entity.

On April 24, 2019 it is received in this Agency, with registration number
021042/2019, letter of allegations from this entity stating
Regarding the causes that have motivated the claim, that on December 9, 2018
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

a data cancellation request was received by email, with
supporting documentation, corresponding to tax debts that had
caused the inclusion of the data of the claimant in the file of Incidents
Judicial and claims from Public Organizations. Dated December 18,
2018 is canceled and a communication is sent to the claimant on the same date. With
On January 3, 2019, the new right of withdrawal was received at the Equifax offices.
cancellation without providing any supporting documentation. In the response issued to
affected was denied his request for cancellation, basing it on the legal regulations
in this regard, according to which the claimants cannot exercise the rights
recognized by data protection legislation indiscriminately,
abusive and immoderate, since another request for
cancellation for the same reference holder. The response is prepared with a date
01/03/2019 and sent on 01/08/2019 by email.

On the occasion of the transfer of the claim, they inform this Agency that
verify that as of April 5, 2019 there were 4 annotations in the file
Asnef with data from Caixabank S.A, Nuevo Micro Bank and two of
Caixabank Payments, and that after consulting the creditor entities, only one of
the debts corresponding to Caixabank Payments were deregistered,
ratifying the other three. On April 22, 2019, they send a communication to
claimant about these extremes and they inform him that he can go to
the creditor entities that have confirmed the debts to obtain more
information about these.

And attached, among others, the following documentation:



Report of records informed to the Asnef file and history of queries to
date of April 5, 2019.

 Request for information from creditor entities about debts

informed.

 Response of creditor entities.


Report of the claimant's records in the Asnef file dated April 22
of 2019.

 Communication dated April 22, 2019 sent to the claimant regarding the
situation in the Asnef file after its cancellation exercise and consultation with the
creditor entities.

THIRD: On December 18, 2019, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 6.1 f) of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent requested
extension of the term and subsequently presented a brief of allegations in which, in
synthesis, stated that: "As a consequence of not blocking the data, the
AEPD considers that my client has proceeded to carry out a treatment of
data without a legitimate basis, and therefore considers the existence of a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

breach of article 6.1 f) of the RGPD in relation to the data of the
complainant.

In the case at hand, the interpretation and direct application of article 20.1 c)
by the AEPD implies, the exclusion of the weighting required by the legitimating basis
of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD and, on the other, add an additional requirement for the
legitimacy of data processing established in article 6.1 f) of the RGPD.
Both facts, which as we have been pointing out, are contrary to the very spirit of
the rule applied by the AEPD, the RGPD itself and the jurisprudence of the CJEU.

The data of the complainant were registered in ASNEF and accessible by the
entities participating in the credit system on December 10, 2018,
although they were sent electronically by the creditor entities on 7
December of the same year. My client proceeded to send the complainant the
information indicated in article 14 of the RGPD on December 11, 2018.

Through this action, we understand that the AEPD what is actually
doing is imposing an additional requirement, such as data locking, on a
data processing based on legitimate interest and in a specific case
regulated in the RGPD such as the obtaining of personal data through
a source that is not the interested party, and additionally, interpret and apply a
presumption as if it were a regulation and not a presumption according to the
Statement of Reasons of the LOPDGDD.

Formulate in your day Proposal for a Resolution in which the
claims requested, declaring the nullity of the proceedings and their filing and the
absence of responsibilities on the part of my principal”.
 
FIFTH: On January 22, 2020, the practice period for
evidence, remembering: 1. To consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated that are part of the file and 2. Consider reproduced for purposes
evidence, the allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00451/2019, presented
by the accused entity.

SIXTH: On February 18, 2020, it was issued and notified on the 19th of the same month and
year to the claimed party the Resolution Proposal for the presumed infraction of the
Article 6.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of
€75,000.

The respondent presented arguments to the Proposed Resolutions, with
date of entry into this Agency on March 11, 2020, in which, in summary,
states the same facts and arguments set forth in the allegations to the
initiation agreement, that is to say that the obligation to block the data for a
period of 30 days when the data has not been collected directly from the
interested, it is not established in the conducts typified by the RGPD in its article
83 and therefore would be responsible for an infraction that is not
corresponds to the typification that is made of it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

  Consequently, the respondent requests that the claims be upheld
requested, declaring the nullity of the proceedings and their filing and the absence of
responsibilities.

  

PROVEN FACTS

1.- The claimant's data was registered in the ASNEF file and
accessible by the entities participating in the credit system on the 10th of
December 2018, were not blocked, being visible from the day after the
registration of the data in the file.

2.- The denial of cancellation of the data of the claimant with
dated January 3, 2019 and again on January 9, 2019, alleging that
according to article 12.5 b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 General Protection of
Data, the claimants cannot exercise the rights recognized by the
data protection legislation in an indiscriminate, abusive and
immoderate There is no evidence that the respondent has consulted in any of the
occasions with the creditor entities, prior to the denial of the
cancellation, on reported debts.

3.- Regarding the maintenance of non-visible data for a period of
thirty days marked by the LOPDGDD in its article 20.1.c, is received in this
Agency at the request of the inspection dated October 10, 2019 and
registration number 047972/2019, document sent by the respondent alleging that:

“Although it is true that said LOPDGDD was applicable from the day
following its publication in the BOE, that is, dated December 7, 2018,
for technical and internal development reasons at Equifax, it was not feasible
implement such changes in our systems until last January 22
2019, the date from which the 30-day blockade was effectively
implemented.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2
of the RGPD and in art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infringement by
violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", which indicates in its

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

section 1 the cases in which the processing of third party data is
considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the
following conditions:

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that
over said interests do not prevail the interests or the rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child. The provisions of letter f) of paragraph
first will not apply to processing carried out by public authorities
in the performance of their duties.”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as

such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned,
in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and infringements will expire after three years.
that suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and,
in particular, the following:

            (…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 f) of the RGPD, since it did not have incorporated
in its treatments the obligation established in article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD
to block the information for thirty days.

Article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD establishes:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

“That the creditor has informed the affected party in the contract or at the time of
require payment about the possibility of inclusion in said systems, with
indication of those in which it participates.

The entity that maintains the credit information system with relative data
non-compliance with monetary, financial or credit obligations must
notify the affected party of the inclusion of such data and will inform him about the possibility of
exercise the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 within thirty days of notification of the debt to the
system, the data remaining blocked during that period.”

Therefore, the data was visible from the first day of registration in the file.

ASNEF contravening the visibility requirements contained in the LOPDGDD.

It is verified, as claimed, that the data reported on the 10th of
December 2018, the period required in the LOPDGDD was not blocked
being visible from the day following the registration of the data in the file.

Well, as the defendant acknowledges in his pleadings brief
which states the following: "Although it is true that said LOPDGDD was of
application from the day following its publication in the BOE, that is, with the date
December 7, 2018, for technical and internal development reasons at Equifax, no
it was feasible to implement such changes in our systems until last 22
January 2019, the date from which the 30-day blockade was
actually implemented.”

It is clear, and this is the essential, the above makes the treatment of the data
of the claimant is not legitimate, given that the budgets were not given
established in article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD.

IV

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.1 and 83.2, when deciding the
imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case
will take into account the aggravating and mitigating factors that are listed in the
indicated article, as well as any other that may be applicable to the
circumstances of the case.

        “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

      “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a
administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be duly
consider:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

8/10

nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”
Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article
76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD for which the claimed party is responsible, they are estimated
concurrent the following factors:
As aggravating criteria:

-

In the present case we are facing an unintentional negligent action,

but significant identified (article 83.2 b).

The duration of the illegitimate treatment of the data of the affected person carried out

-
by the claimed party (article 83.2 d).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the
RGPD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating what is established in its
Article 6 allows a penalty of 75,000 euros (seventy-five thousand euros) to be set,
typified as "very serious", for the purpose of prescription of the same, in the
Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and valued the
Graduation criteria for sanctions whose existence has been
accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

           

FIRST: IMPOSE EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L., with NIF B80855398, for a
infringement of Article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a fine of €75,000.00 (seventy-five thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L..

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction
imposed once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with
The provisions of the art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005,
of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
by entering, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned person and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the
restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK,
S.A.. Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the deadline for
make the voluntary payment will be until the 20th of the following month or immediately
later business day, and if it is between the 16th and last day of each month, both
inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of the second following month or
immediate subsequent business.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the
interested.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with
art. 48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of
the LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for
replacement before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions
in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended
if the interested party expresses his intention to file an appeal
contentious-administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must
formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned
Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the
contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would terminate the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

