1/12

 File No.: EXP202206258

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated June 1,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against D. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in CALLE
***ADDRESS.1, PINTO, MADRID, there being indications of possible non-compliance
of the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(hereinafter, GDPR).

The reasons for the claim are the following:

The claimant states that he is a neighbor of a dwelling adjoining a dwelling of
the claimed part and that he has installed, on the façade of the first floor of his
home, on a terrace, a video surveillance camera that, due to its location and
orientation, is likely to capture both the public thoroughfare that runs next to both
homes, as well as the home of the claimant, the camera being linked to
a movement detection alarm system that is activated both when passing through
the public road next to the home of the claimed party, such as when accessing the property itself
residence of the claimant.
Provide images of camera location and videos showing activation
of the alarm system from the detection of presence both when accessing the
home of the complaining party, such as when traveling on public roads next to the home
of the claimed party.

The documents provided are:
- Photo report
- Videos

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 06/14/2022, as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

With dates 07/11/2022 and 09/06/2022, response writings are received at this Agency
and correction, respectively. The respondent party provides a statement
signed responsible in which it is indicated that the camera is fictitious, does not work or has been
retired; without specifying in which of the three situations (fictitious, does not work or has been
removed) is found. In addition, together with the claim, two videos are provided in which
that it is heard how the alarm is activated when there is movement, little circumstance
compatible with a dummy camera. After requesting rectification from the claimed party,
to explain the reason for the alarm activation (linked to a dummy camera),
does not offer any explanation of this fact in his answer, such only provides a
advertisement for a dummy camera claiming that it is similar to his camera. Notwithstanding
above, when comparing the image of both devices, no similarity can be seen.

THIRD: On September 1, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On October 25, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which it stated:

"AS COMMUNICATED THROUGH THE RESPONSIBLE STATEMENT WITH
DATE 06/06/2022 THE CAMERA THAT IS INSTALLED ON THE WALL
FROM THE SOUTH FACING TERRACE OF THE HOUSE LOCATED ON THE STREET
***ADDRESS.1 DE PINTO IS FICTITIOUS”

SIXTH: On January 11, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
to D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of €300 (three hundred euros).

SEVENTH: On February 7, 2023, the claimed party presents allegations to
the proposed resolution, stating:

IN RELATION TO THE RESOLUTION PROPOSAL RECEIVED ON JANUARY 30
OF 2023 ON FILE N° EXPXXXXXXXXX I COMMUNICATE AND
I CLARIFY THAT: DATED JULY 2022 AND THROUGH DECLARATION
RESPONSIBLE THROUGH THE WEB PAGE OF THE AEPD THERE WAS A RESPONSE
OF CORRECTION THAT THE CAMERA HAD BEEN REMOVED (OPTION OF THE
THREE THAT APPEAR INDICATED IN SAID WRITING) AND IN SUBSEQUENT
NOTIFICATIONS RECEIVED, IT WAS COMMUNICATED AGAIN THAT THE CAMERA THAT
IT IS CURRENTLY INSTALLED, IS FICTITIOUS AND DETERRENT AND
IT DOES NOT ALLOW TO VIEW OR RECORD IMAGES. SERVE THIS MEANS OF
COMMUNICATION AS AN APPEAL FOR DISMISSAL OF THE SANCTION TO D.
B.B.B.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant states that he is a neighbor of a house adjoining a
home of the claimed party and that he has installed, on the façade of the first
floor of his house, on a terrace, a video surveillance camera that, due to its
location and orientation, is likely to capture both the public road that passes
next to both houses, as well as to the house of the claimant, being linked
the camera to a motion detection alarm system that activates both when
travel on public roads next to the home of the claimed party, such as when accessing
the claimant's own home.
Provide images of camera location and videos showing activation
of the alarm system from the detection of presence both when accessing the
home of the complaining party, such as when traveling on public roads next to the home
of the claimed party.

SECOND: The claimed party provides a signed responsible declaration in which
indicates that the camera is dummy, not working or has been retired.
He contributes an ad for a dummy camera stating that it is similar to his camera.
He presented a brief of allegations in which he stated that:
"AS COMMUNICATED THROUGH THE RESPONSIBLE STATEMENT WITH
DATE 06/06/2022 THE CAMERA THAT IS INSTALLED ON THE WALL
FROM THE SOUTH FACING TERRACE OF THE HOUSE LOCATED ON THE STREET
***ADDRESS.1 DE PINTO IS FICTITIOUS”
In the allegations to the resolution proposal, it indicates:
I INFORM YOU AND CLARIFY THAT: WITH THE DATE OF JULY 2022 AND THROUGH
RESPONSIBLE STATEMENT THROUGH THE WEB PAGE OF THE AEPD SE
HE GAVE AN ANSWER THAT THE CAMERA HAD BEEN REMOVED
(OPTION OF THE THREE INDICATED IN SAID WRITING) AND IN
SUBSEQUENT NOTIFICATIONS RECEIVED, IT WAS COMMUNICATED AGAIN THAT
THE CAMERA THAT IS CURRENTLY INSTALLED IS FICTITIOUS
AND DETERRENT AND DOES NOT ALLOW VIEWING OR RECORDING IMAGES.

 

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Response Allegations

In response to the allegations presented by the claimed party, it should be noted that
following:

Having examined the allegations of the claimed party, said allegations are not accepted,
by not specifying in the responsible declaration to which it alludes that the camera be
dummy. The date on which it says that said statement was filed does not match either.
with that of the Registry in this Agency.

Along with the claim, two videos are provided in which you can hear how it is activated
the alarm when there is movement, a circumstance incompatible with a dummy camera.

After requesting rectification from the claimed party, to explain the reason for the
activation of the alarm (tied to a dummy camera), does not offer any explanation of
this fact in his answer, he only provides an advertisement for a dummy camera
stating that it is similar to his camera. By comparing the image of both devices
no similarity is seen.

Finally, there is a contradiction, which can be verified in the literalness of its
allegations, when he first says that in June 2022 he had said that the camera was
fictitious, and in the allegations to the proposal states that in July 2022 the chamber
he had withdrawn. Both references to the only responsible statement (signed on 6
July 2022 and registered with this Agency on July 11, 2022) in which no
Specify whether the camera is dummy, not working, or has been retired.

It should be remembered that "the data that is processed through the
video surveillance will be processed for the purpose that motivated the installation of the
itself and which is linked to guaranteeing the safety of people, goods and
facilities".

II

The image is a personal data

The physical image of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is data
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

The images generated by a system of cameras or camcorders are data of
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the denounced video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

IV.

Infringement

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data.

Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR which provides that
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. Treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and at the time of
subsequent treatment carried out on them.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their deletion.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
means that images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
government, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties
without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
such as changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.
 

V

Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a “layered information” system.

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the
processing of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be provided in advance.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

4.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and the principle of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.
6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

SAW

administrative infraction

In accordance with the proven facts verified during the procedure
disciplinary action, it is considered that the facts exposed violate what is established in the article
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, therefore they suppose the commission of an infraction typified in
Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

VII

Sanction

Article 58.2 of the GDPR establishes:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(...)
d) order the person in charge or person in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(...)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

Regarding the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, based on the facts
proven, it is considered that the sanction to be imposed is a fine
administrative.

The fine imposed must be, in each case, individual, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which indicates:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement”.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity
f) Affectation of the rights of minors
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infringement of article
5.1 c) of the GDPR, allows setting a fine of €300 (three hundred euros).

VIII

Measures

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows its organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

IX

Conclusion

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and valued the graduation criteria of
the sanction whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of 300 euros
(THREE HUNDRED euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

SECOND: ORDER D. B.B.B. that, by virtue of article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, in the
within ten business days, take the following steps:

Evidence of having removed the camera in question, providing

documentary evidence with date and time that proves such end, or, failing that,
certifies the regularization of the chamber, in accordance with current regulations,
so that it does not record or capture images of the home of the complaining party or
of the public road that runs next to the houses.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to D. B.B.B..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
XXXXXXXXXXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

938-181022

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

