

Bonn/Berlin, November 14, 2019


Press release 26/2019


  Personal web tracking only with consent
If providers of third-party services integrated into websites also use the data collected there for their own purposes, the website operator must obtain the explicit consent of the users.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Ulrich Kelber, is therefore calling on website operators to immediately check their websites for corresponding third-party content and tracking mechanisms: Anyone who integrates offers that legally require consent, such as Google Analytics, must ensure that it obtains data protection-compliant consent from its website users. It should hopefully be clear to everyone by now that this does not work with simple information via so-called cookie banners or pre-activated boxes in declarations of consent. Every website operator should therefore carefully consider which services are integrated with him and, if necessary, deactivate them until he has ensured that data protection-compliant use can be guaranteed.
The "Orientation Guide for Providers of Telemedia" published by the data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments in the spring can provide support here. This details the conditions under which tracking of website visitors is permitted. Older publications by the supervisory authorities, for example on the subject of Google Analytics, no longer apply because the legal situation and the processing methods have sometimes changed significantly.







contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











