GZ: 2020-0.349.984 from June 26, 2020 (case number: DSB-D205.023)

 

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.

The Respondent's company was not pseudonymised here, since it was loud
Reasons for the decision of the universal service operators in accordance with Section 12 (1) PMG in this role
was involved in the proceedings and the Respondent as such in the cited law
is listed. A meaningful pseudonymization was also due to multiple
References to the business activities of the Respondent as
Universal service provider not possible in the circumstances (e.g. registered letter, "yellow note").
The secrecy interest of the respondent who prevailed in the proceedings, whose
action has been found to be lawful does not outweigh the public here
Interest in the publication of the legally required by § 23 paragraph 2 DSG
Decision.]

 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on Gustav A***'s data protection complaint

(Appellant) of April 17, 2019 against Österreichische Post AG

(Respondent) for violation of the right to secrecy as follows:

- The complaint is dismissed as unsubstantiated.

Legal basis: Art. 4 Z 2, Art. 5 Para. 1 lit. f, Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c and lit. f, Art. 13, Art. 51

Paragraph 1, Article 57 Paragraph 1 lit. f and Article 77 Paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (data protection

Basic Regulation, hereinafter: GDPR), OJ No. L 119 of 4.5.2016 p. 1; §§ 1 para. 1 and

Paragraph 2, 18 Paragraph 1 and 24 Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 5 of the Data Protection Act (DSG), BGBl. I

No. 165/1999 as amended; § 3 Z 4 and Z 12, § 12, § 17, § 20 of the Postal Market Act (PMG), Federal Law Gazette I

No. 123/2009 as amended;

 

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

REASON

1. With the procedural submission dated April 17, 2019, repeated on June 23, 2019 and

on July 26, 2019, the applicant alleged a violation of the right to

confidentiality

such as

an injury

the

information requirements

through

the

Respondent.

The alleged breach of the information obligation will be dealt with in a separate procedure

Business number DSB-D205.246.

2. Regarding the alleged violation of the right to secrecy brought the

Complainants summarized as follows:

The complainant received a letter addressed to him by means of a so-called

"Yellow slips" fixed on March 29, 2019 in a branch of the respondent. In the course of

an employee of the Respondent had to present an ID card from the

complainant, which was also submitted by the complainant. have in a row

however, the employee makes a copy against his will and without his permission

prepared. The ID was placed on a scanner and the data was recorded electronically

been. The complainant further states that even in the General

Terms and Conditions of the Respondent (“GTC Letter National”) under point 3.5.2 only

of a submission in case of doubt of the identity, and not of a data collection.

3. With completion of July 22, 2019 (GZ: DSB-D205.023/0001-DSB-2019), the

Data Protection Authority invites the Respondent to comment.

4. In a submission dated August 20, 2019, the Respondent commented as follows:

It is correct that the complainant has a recommanded (= with receipt)

Registered mail in a branch of the Respondent fixed, since he

time of the attempted delivery had not been reached. He was therefore by means of "yellow

Note” about the attempted delivery and the deposit of the consignment and about the

Need to present an official photo ID when removing the shipment

been informed. The notice of deposit also contains a reference to the

The Respondent's data protection information, which in particular also contains information about the processing

would inform of identification data.

When the complainant corrected the shipment, an employee of

Respondent asked the complainant to submit a photo ID

prompted and then the specific ID data, as usual when a person dem

employee is not personally known is automatically recorded by the system. To capture the

ID card data is used by a scanning device, which only contains specific data from the respective

Identity card, namely type of identity card, identity card number, issuing authority and date of birth

as well as the corresponding name, select - a copy will not be made. the

Complainant also acknowledged receipt of the registered mail on the .

The alleged processing of the ID card data is to fulfill a legal obligation

required, to which the Respondent is subject as the person responsible (Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c

GDPR): According to § 3 Z 12 PMG, the acceptance of registered mail to the

to acknowledge the correct recipient. The handover to the right person is - if this is the

Respondent not personally known

is  -

only

as part of a

identification/authentication procedure to be carried out, i.e. by submitting a

Official photo ID, possible. The Respondent, in accordance with

§ 20 PMG General Terms and Conditions (esp. "AGB Letter") enacted, which also from

have been approved by the regulatory authority. That also results from this

Necessity of a confirmation of acceptance and identity verification (item 3.3 and 3.5.2

of the GTC letter national and point 4.1 of the product and price list ("PVV") for

return receipt letters, including registered mail). From these documents (GTC and PVV)

it follows that the handing over of a registered item only after previous

Identification or authentication is allowed. They have the ID data

Respondent collected for the purpose of identification or authentication and thus

along with the possible handling of potential investigations (point 3.10 of the

GTC national letters) as well as any warranty cases (point 4 of the GTC national letters),

i.e. to assert, exercise or defend legal claims and also to

Implementation of the contractual relationship with the sender retained for 6 months and thereafter

turned off. Also from the fact that the Respondent has possible warranty

and/or be subject to claims for damages if a shipment fails

will be handed over properly, in particular to the correct recipient

a processing and storage authority. It must therefore be possible to at least

to be able to defend within the statutory warranty period. Also in the frame

the respondent must object to any proceedings before the data protection authority

can freely prove, for example, that they have complied with their duty of care and their identity

of the transferee have demonstrably checked. The Respondent referred to the time limit

of Section 24 (4) DSG and a more detailed decision by the data protection authority

regarding the admissibility of a copy of an ID card for identity verification.

Furthermore, the processing of the ID card data is to protect legitimate interests

the Respondent and the respective sender iSd. Article 6 paragraph 1 lit. f GDPR

required for the correct attribution to the

actually addressed recipient

and to be able to provide proof to the sender. Just be

prevent any misuse. The interests of the Respondent and the

of their contractual partner would violate the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the

complainant prevail. There is no noticeable impairment of the

complainant, since only the necessary data would be stored, which

moreover, according to § 5 PMG as well as through extensive technical and organizational

measures are protected.

The Respondent

also stated that she

your

information requirements

complied and referred to the "Privacy Policy" which is on their

website can be accessed.

5. With the completion of September 19, 2019 (GZ: DSB-D205.023/0003-DSB/2019) the

Data Protection Authority to hear the complainant from the parties and the opportunity to

opinion.

6. No further submissions were made by the complainant.

B. Subject of Complaint

The subject of the complaint is the question of whether the Respondent

thereby violated his right to secrecy by an employee of

Respondent in the course of picking up a postal item (registered mail)

electronically recorded and stored the complainant's identity card data.

The alleged breach of information obligations becomes a business number in the proceedings

DSB-D205.246 treated separately and was therefore not the subject of the complaint

present procedure.

C. Findings of Facts

1. On March 29, 2019, the complainant picked up a letter in the (post) branch ****,

**** XY, *** Street *. The Respondent did not have the Appellant to one

closer

determined point in time about an unsuccessful delivery attempt and the

Subsequent deposit in the named post office by means of notification of a

stored consignment (“yellow note”). This was a non-

official, recommanded (with acceptance slip) registered mail.

2. The Appellant dismissed after being challenged by an employee of the Respondent

was requested to present his official photo ID in the course of removing the consignment

before.

Subsequently, the identity card data: identity card type, identity card number,

Issuing authority, date of birth and the corresponding name electronically using

Scan device captured and stored for 6 months. After the retention period has expired

the relevant data is deleted. A copy of the identity document itself was made

however not created.

Evidence Assessment: The Findings

result

himself

out

matching

Submissions of the parties, in particular the complainant's submission of April 17, 2019

and the Respondent's submission of August 20, 2019.

3. The following general terms and conditions of the respondent were in effect on March 29, 2019:

 



Evidence assessment: The finding results from the submission of the Respondent

dated August 20, 2019 and remained unchallenged by the complainant.

D. In legal terms it follows that:

the

complainant

meant

the

Respondent

have

against

Violate confidentiality obligations by providing a copy of an ID card (recording using a scanning device

as well as saving the ID card data).

As a result, the statements are not justified:

D.1. On Article 6 Paragraph 1 Letter c GDPR:

According to § 1 Para. 1 DSG everyone has, in particular with regard to the respect of his

Private and family life, right to secrecy of

concerning him

personal data, insofar as there is a legitimate interest in it.

According to § 1 paragraph 2 DSG restrictions of the secrecy claim, as far as the

Use of personal data not in the vital interest of the

Affected or with his consent, only to protect overriding legitimate

interests of another permissible.

The data processing in question was not carried out in the vital interest of the

Complainant, there was still consent, which is why the legality due to the

The protection of overriding legitimate interests was to be checked: A violation of

confidentiality obligations

is based on the case law of the data protection authority

in particular not if the implementing provisions according to § 4

Para. 1 DSG and the principles enshrined therein do not

were violated (cf. the notification of October 31, 2018, GZ DSB-D123.076/0003-

DSB/2018).

According to Art. 5 Para. 1 lit. b GDPR, personal data must be processed for specified,

are collected for clear and legitimate purposes and must not be in any way related to those purposes

be further processed in a way that cannot be agreed upon ("purpose limitation"). The processing

of personal data is justified, among other things, if it is used to fulfill

a legal obligation to which the person responsible is subject (Article 6 (1) (c) GDPR),

is necessary or to protect the legitimate interests of the person responsible or one

Third parties, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of those concerned

person who require the protection of personal data prevail (Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f

GDPR).

In this context, Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c GDPR in conjunction with the PMG and Art. 6 Para

lit. f GDPR relevant:

However, the Respondent also correctly referred to the statutory provisions

Obligations of the PMG:

§ 3 Z 4 and Z 12 PMG, including the title, reads as follows (emphasis added by the

Data Protection Authority):

definitions

§ 3.
For the purpose of this federal law means:
[...]
4. "Universal Service Provider" one or more designated Universal Service Providers pursuant to

Section 12 (1) or one or more designated postal service providers pursuant to Section 12 (2);

[...]
12. "Registered Item" means a postal item sent by the postal service provider as a flat rate
is insured against loss, theft or damage and in which the
the sender, if necessary at his or her request, a
confirmation of receipt of the shipment and/or its delivery
the recipient is granted;
 

Section 12 PMG reads as follows, including the heading (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

§ 12.

universal service operator

(1) With

When this federal law comes into force, Austrian Post will be

named universal service operator.

[...]

 

§ 20 PMG reads as follows including the heading (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

General Terms and Conditions of the Universal Service Provider

§ 20.

(1) The universal service provider has, in accordance with the provisions of this Act and
in the

the ordinances issued on the basis of this law
Universal service area to enact general terms and conditions.

for services

[...]

In any case, a legal obligation pursuant to Article 6 (1) (c) GDPR is one

Obligation by virtue of objective law (Frenzel in Paal/Pauly, General Data Protection Regulation

Art. 6 para. 16) to be understood, resulting in particular from a Member State or

Union legal basis can arise and also directly to the

Data processing relates (Kastelitz/Hötzendorfer/Tschohl in Knyrim, DatKomm Art 6 GDPR

margin no. 39).

As a universal service operator, the Respondent is subject to § 3 Z 4 in conjunction with § 12 (1).

PMG the provisions of the PMG and is insofar as the addressee of this law

resulting legal obligations.

According to the established case law of the Constitutional Court on the quality of a

Intervention norm in the sense of § 1 para. 2 DSG (2000) this must be “sufficiently precise, i.e. for everyone

foreseeable, describe the conditions under which the determination or the

Use of the data for the performance of specific administrative tasks is permitted.

The respective legislature must therefore iSd. § 1 para. 2 DSG 2000 a matter-specific

Provide regulation in the sense that the cases of permissible interference with the fundamental right

Data protection to be specified and limited (VfSlg. 18.146/2007).

The data protection authority does not overlook the fact that this case law relates to a

refers to an overriding norm that is intended to legitimize official action, which is not the case here

is.

Nevertheless, this case law can also be applied mutatis mutandis if

Those responsible for the private sector (§ 26 Para. 4 DSG) on an enabling standard iSd

Article 6 paragraph 1 lit. c GDPR. This also results from Art. 5 Para. 1 lit. a GDPR,

that personal data is processed lawfully, fairly and in

processed in a manner that is comprehensible to the data subject.

It is therefore necessary to examine whether the provisions of the PMG create a legal obligation to

processing of personal data according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c GDPR.

§ 3 Z 12 PMG standardizes the need for confirmation of receipt or

delivery of the consignment. About the mere investigation, speak beyond that

Collection or storage of personal (identification) data meets § 3 Z 12 PMG

however, no statement. This applies equally to Section 20 (1) PMG, which only

Constitution of general terms and conditions, but no legal obligation to

Processing of personal data standardized.

Furthermore, it should be noted that the general terms and conditions of the

Respondent itself no legal obligation due to lack of substantive legal quality

can represent.

As a result, the provisions of the

PMG in conjunction with Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c GDPR no legal basis for scanning and

storing the complainant's identity card.

D.2. To protect legitimate interests (Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR):

As a result

It must be checked whether the processing of the personal data of the

complainant to protect the legitimate interests of the respondent or one

Third parties within the meaning of Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR was required.

According to the case law of the ECJ, the processing is based on the legal basis of the "legitimate

interest” under three cumulative conditions: i) perception of a

legitimate interest by the person responsible or the third party or third parties to whom the

data are transmitted, ii) Necessity of processing the personal data

to realize the legitimate interest and iii) no predominance of fundamental rights and

Fundamental freedoms of the data subject about the perceived

legitimate interest (cf. with regard to Directive 95/46/EC the judgment of the ECJ of

December 11, 2019, C-708/18 [TK] margin no. 40 with further references).

i) Legitimate interests of those responsible or a third party

It must first be checked whether a legitimate interest of the respondent or one

third parties in the processing of the complainant's identification data

has passed:

In this regard, the Respondent argued, among other things, that she might

be subject to warranty and/or damage claims by the sender

could and the processing thus to protect or defend their legal claims

was necessary.

It should be noted that the Respondent's interest in the event of a

litigation sufficient, at least within the statutory warranty period,

defend and provide evidence of lawful delivery to the correct person

to be able to, was to be regarded as justified (cf. Kastelitz/Hötzendorfer/Tschohl in

Knyrim, DatKomm Art 6 GDPR para. 54).

Against this background, the existence of a legitimate

interest of

Respondent to affirm the processing of the relevant ID data.

ii) Necessity of data processing

In addition, it must also be recognized that the processing of the ID card data of the

Complainant could serve in the event of a legal dispute, the handover to the

to be able to prove the correct recipient.

iii) No overriding of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject

Most recently, the Respondent's stated interest in data processing

against the complainant's claim for secrecy and any

check predominance.

Among other things, this also depends on the reasonable expectations of the complainant

to be turned off, i.e. in particular whether he was at the time the ID card data was collected and

could reasonably have foreseen, given the circumstances in which it takes place

processing for this purpose may take place (cf. recital 47 of the GDPR).

The collection and storage of ID card data for the purpose of defending

Legal claims regarding postal items are in any case within the general

life experience and was therefore also easily foreseeable for the complainant.

For the specific balancing of interests, it should also be noted that there are no

special categories of personal data according to Art. 9 Para. 1 DSGVO, none

criminally relevant data according to Art. 10 GDPR and also no other

personal data were processed with a particularly intensive intervention in

would be linked to the fundamental right to secrecy.

The categories of data processed by the Respondent are by no means

excessive and the storage period of six months is by no means as long

to be considered disproportionate. Also with regard to the case law of the ECJ

no excessive data processing can be seen: the processing was also

both in terms of the scope of the data processed and in terms of

Storage duration to the absolutely necessary (cf. e.g. ECJ 11.12.2014, C-212/13, Ryneš)

limited, since the Respondent only had the ID data for six months and

thus only stored for a clearly defined, non-excessive period of time.

D.3 Result:

Against this background, the data protection authority comes to the conclusion that the

entitled

Respondent's interests in relation to fundamental rights and

fundamental freedoms of the complainant prevail and the processing is lawful

Based on "legitimate interests" according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR.

The appeal was accordingly dismissed.

