 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dear Commissioner Reynders,  

 

Mr Didier Reynders 
European Commissioner for Justice 
Sent by email only 
    Brussels, 10 October 2022 
Ref.: OUT2022 -0069 

 

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a cornerstone of the digital single market and is a 
vital piece of legislation ensuring a human-centric approach to technology.  

While  its enforcement is  picking up  speed  and the efficiency  of cross-border  cooperation  among 
Supervisory Authorities is increasing steadily, the full potential of the GDPR remains to be unlocked.  

With the statement adopted in April 2022, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) signalled its 
enduring commitment to close cross-border cooperation. It also identified and started implementing 
targeted actions to enhance cooperation further, such as the identification of strategic cases for which 
cooperation is prioritised.  

The EDPB has already developed guidelines to promote a common application of cooperation and 
consistency. Data Protection Authorities remain strongly committed to ensure a consistent application 
of  the GDPR by all means  at their disposal.  Yet, it is a priority  for GDPR cooperation to develop 
harmonised provisions at EU level. While recalling that it is premature to revise the GDPR at this point 
in time, this is necessary to iron out the differences in administrative procedures and practices which 
may have a detrimental impact on cross-border cooperation. 

To this  end, the EDPB has drawn up  a  list of  procedural aspects that could  benefit from further 
harmonisation at EU level, enclosed in the annex for European Commission’s consideration.  

This list addresses  inter alia: the status and rights of the parties to the administrative procedures; 
procedural deadlines; requirements for admissibility or dismissal of complaints; investigative powers 
of Supervisory Authorities; and the practical implementation of the cooperation procedure. 

We trust that the European Commission  will support all endeavours to strengthen GDPR compliance 
through  enforcement  by  addressing  these  procedural  issues  in  order  to  maximise  cross-border 
cooperation, and further harmonise the treatment of complainants and regulated entities across the 
EU. 

The EDPB remains at the Commission’s disposal for further information and clarifications. 

Yours sincerely,  

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 
 

 
Annex  
As  mentioned  in  the  EDPB Statement  on  enforcement  cooperation  of  28  April  2022,  Data 
Protection  Authorities  have noted that several procedural  aspects could  be further harmonized 
in EU law, in  order to maximize  the efficiency of the cooperation  mechanism.   

 

This  annex contains  a list  of procedural  aspects that could  benefit  from further harmonisation 
at EU level,  for the consideration  of the European  Commission1,  with  a view of  making  sure 
that  national  procedures  do  not  hinder  the full  effectiveness  of the  GDPR’s cooperation  and 
consistency  mechanism. 

1.  Regarding the parties to the administrative procedure  
1.1. Identification  of the parties to the procedure; status and rights of the complainant 

Proposal 1: 

•  Defining who are the parties to the procedure;  
•  Clarifying the status of the complainant as party or not; 
•  Clarifying the status and rights of representatives of complainants 

 
A first that could  benefit  from enhanced harmonisation  is the extent to which  the complainant 
is  entitled  to  take part in  the proceedings  in  front  of the Supervisory  Authority.  In particular, 
harmonization  on whether the complainant  should  have have an active role with clearly defined 
rights,  or whether it can only  complain  to the Supervisory  Authority  about a violation  of GDPR 
while  not  being further involved  in the procedure (e.g. with respect to measures and sanctions 
that may need to be imposed  on the controller  or processor)  

This  would  entail  clarifying  whether  the complainant  is  to  be considered  as a “party”  to  the 
procedure. In some Member States, the complainants  are regarded as parties to the procedure 
and/or  specific  rights  are conferred on them,  while  it  is not  the case in  other  Member States2. 
                                                             
1 In addition to the Contribution of the EDPB to the evaluation of the GDPR under Article 97 adopted on 18 
February 2020. 
2 The Contribution of the EDPB to the evaluation of the GDPR under Article 97 confirms, on page 11, that the 
complainant is “not being always perceived as a party to the proceeding before the SA”. This is also shown by the 
“Overview on resources made available by Member States to the Data Protection Authorities and on enforcement 
actions by the Data Protection Authorities” issued by the EDPB on 5 August 2021. By way of example, according 
to this report, complainants have a right to be heard under Austrian, Belgian, Bulgarian, Irish, Maltese, Norwegian, 
Polish law; on the other hand, this is not the case under Czech, French, and Swedish law. Under Spanish law, 
complainants are not considered as parties except where the envisaged decision may adversely affect them which 
is assessed on a case-by-case basis but is by default deemed to be the case in all proceedings related to the exercise 
of data protection rights. 

 

1 

 
 
Harmonisation  of this aspect, regardless of the national  procedural law which is used to handle 
the case, would  avoid  any different  treatment of complainants  depending  on the Member State 
where the LSA is in  charge or where the complaint  was filed. 

It would  also  be  useful  to specify  that  the representative  mentioned  in  Article  80(1)  GDPR, 
when acting on behalf of the data subject, is entitled  to the same status and procedural rights  as 
the  complainant  who  is  represented.  Additionally,  when  this  provision  is  implemented  by 
Member State law, entities lodging  complaints  under Article 80(2) should  also be treated in the 
same way as individual  complainants.   

1.2.Rights  of the parties to the procedure 

Proposal 2: 

•  Specifying and harmonising procedural rights that parties are entitled to 

Procedural  rights  afforded  to  the  parties3  are currently  different  across  Member  States. To 
strengthen the uniform  application  of the GDPR and avoid  different treatment of the parties,  it 
would  be  desirable  to  specify  a  list  of  procedural  rights  that  the  parties  are  entitled  to, 
irrespective  of the Member State concerned. Increased harmonisation  of the procedural  rights 
of the parties at national  level  would  also be beneficial  in situations  where the case also needs 
to be dealt with  at EU level,  in particular  for cases that require dispute  resolution  in  accordance 
with Article  65(1)(a) GDPR. 

1.3.Access of the parties to the file  and confidentiality 

Proposal 3: 

•  Specifying the right of the parties to access the documentation of the proceedings; 
•  Clarifying the minimum scope of the file; 
•  Clarifying the scope of access that should be granted to parties and further use 

 
In particular,  the right  of the parties  to access the documentation  of the proceedings  could  be 
further  specified.  In  this  regard,  it  could  be useful  to  determine  exactly  what constitutes  the 
minimum  scope of the file,  and the scope of the access that should  be granted to the parties.  

Indeed, in cooperation  cases under Article 60 GDPR, there are currently no clear rules on what 
documents  are considered  part  of  the  file,  with  which  the  parties  (respondent  /  complainant 

                                                             
3 As mentioned above, a clear identification of the parties to each procedure, with specific regard to the role of the 
complainant, would also be beneficial.  

 

2 

 
 
where relevant) have the right  to acquaint themselves  with,  and in  particular  if any documents 
should  be  considered  as  internal  and  confidential  documents  between  authorities.  Without 
prejudice  to  the  rights  to  good  administration  of  the parties  concerned,  it  could  be  clarified 
which  documents  (e.g. documents  that  contain  formalized  opinions,  comments,  positions  and 
relevant and reasoned objections  of Supervisory  Authorities)  are part of the file to which access 
of the parties should  be granted.  

Likewise,  it  could  be beneficial  to  specify  rules  on  the criteria  under  which  documents  and 
elements  can  be  flagged  as  confidential  (e.g.  business  secrets)  by  the  respondent  in  the 
proceedings,  and on the limitations  applicable  to the handling  of such documents (e.g. whether 
they can be shared with the other parties in the proceedings).   

Additionally,  the specification  of the rules applicable  to the recipients  on how they can use the 
information  received as part of the access to the file (in terms of divulgation,  for instance) would 
bring  further clarity.   

Furthermore,  it  should  be clarified  when  such an access request can be addressed and which 
authority  should  process it and,  if applicable,  how authorities  should  cooperate in  this  process 
in order to have a consistent approach.  

Harmonisation  could  also be provided  on the modalities  of the access to the file4.  

1.4.Right  to be heard 

Proposal 4: 

•  Further harmonisation on scope, modalities and timing of the right to be heard of parties 

A further issue is related to the implementation  of the right  to be heard of the parties involved 
in  the proceedings,  before the national  Supervisory  Authority  as it has direct consequences for 
the provision  of this right  at a later stage before the EDPB. The right  to be heard is a generally 
recognized  principle  of EU law that is enshrined in Article 41 of the EU Charter of Fundamental 
rights.  This  right  is currently  applied  in  Article  60  GDPR proceedings  under  a patchwork  of 
diverse Member State laws and/or practice of national  supervisory  authorities5.   

While  the need to specify  which  parties or subjects are entitled  to this  right  has been outlined 
above, it  would  in addition  be helpful  for EU law to provide  further indications  as to its scope, 

                                                             
4 In Poland, the parties can only get access to the documents upon an in-person appointement.  
5 especially relevant where national legislation is silent on this point 

 

3 

 
 
modalities  and timing.  Harmonized  rules  would  be welcomed. For instance,  when it  comes to 
the extent and scope of this right,  depending  on the Member State, it may or may not be possible 
for  a  complainant  to  examine  and  react  to  a  draft  decision  (and,  where  this  possibility  is 
provided  for, this  may  or may not include  the envisaged sanctions  and corrective  measures)6. 
Depending  on  the Member  States, the submissions  can cover only  the facts and not  the legal 
arguments.  Additionally,  it  would  be useful  to harmonise  the timing  of the implementation  of 
this right  as the current practices currently  differ7.  To offer a meaningful  opportunity  to amend 
the  draft  decision  in  light  of  the  response  of  the  parties,  the  right  to  be  heard  should  be 
implemented  before the draft decision is shared with the CSAs (since the draft decision  becomes 
final  and  all  CSAs  are  bound  to  it  unless  a  relevant  and  reasoned  objection  is  filed). 
Standardizing  the procedure  by specifying  the  scope of  this  right,  minimum  standards  as to 
modalities  to be used by  SAs when discharging  this  obligation,  and the timing  for documents 
to be shared and submissions  to be taken into  account, would  be very useful. While  the EDPB 
has addressed the right to be heard as part of its Rules of Procedure and in the context of specific 
guidelines  on  Article  65(1)(a),  the EDPB considers  that it  may  also  be useful  to codify  these 
elements,  which relate in  particular  to the national  SAs duties  and responsibilities. 

2.  Regarding procedural deadlines  
2.1.Procedural steps not subject  to a deadline   

Proposal 5: 

•  Further introduction of, and harmonisation of, deadlines for a number of procedural steps 
•  Further clarification of existing deadlines in the cross-border case handling procedure 
• 

Introduction of rules to address the exceeding of specified or unspecified deadlines 

While  GDPR specifies  a number  of  deadlines  (e.g. an SA should  reply  within  1 month  after 
receiving  a request in  the context  of article 61(2);  4 weeks to express a relevant  and reasoned 
objection  once a draft decision  was submitted;  2 weeks to react on a revised draft decision,  etc.), 
there are a number  of procedural  steps in  the handling  of a case (both  at national  level  and in 

                                                             
6 Please see above, footnote 2.  
7 The practice of the Austrian, Cypriot, Greek, Irish, Lithuanian, Luxembourgish, and Spanish SAs, as well as 
legislation in Latvia, Slovenia and Poland provides for hearing the parties before CSAs are consulted on the draft 
decision. On the other hand, the practice of the Bulgarian SA provides for CSAs to be consulted before the hearing 
or at least in parallel with the hearing. According to the practice of the Finnish and Portuguese SAs, the hearing 
should happen after sharing the draft decision. The practice of the Maltese and Dutch SAs provides for the parties 
to be heard at the investigation stage but not before the decision is issued.  

 

4 

 
 
the context of cross-border cooperation),  which are not subject to any deadline.  This may cause 
some  undue  delay  and/or  disparities  in  the  finalization  of  cases8. Therefore,  to  foster  legal 
certainty and avoid  undermining  effectiveness and credibility  of enforcement,  the introduction 
of deadlines  to take a number  of procedural  steps could  be useful  (while  at the same time,  the 
time  needed to process a case also depends  on its complexity).  This  expectation  is also  in  line 
with  Article  41  (right  to  good  administration)  of  the  EU Charter of  Fundamental  rights  and 
recital  129  GDPR,  which  highlights  that  the  powers  of  supervisory  authorities  should  be 
exercised within  a reasonable time.  

Taking  into  account the specificity  and complexity  of each case, deadlines  could  therefore be 
specified,  in  particular,  for  establishing  the  admissibility  of  the  complaint,  the  transfer  of 
complaints  to  the  LSA,  the  establishment  of  the  competence  of  the  SA or  LSA,  to  start an 
investigation 9, 
to  communicate  the  information  on  the  case  to  CSAs10,  to  issue  a  draft 
decision11,  to prepare a revised draft decision  after relevant and reasoned objections  were sent12, 
to adopt a final  decision  after consensus was reached, or to trigger an article 65 procedure if no 
consensus can be reached.  

Additionally,  specific  provisions  could  be established  to address situations  where cross-border 
cases are not handled  by LSA within  a certain timeframe. This  could  be complemented  by the 

                                                             
8 On this, it may at the same time be relevant to bear in mind that national law or internal regulations of the SAs 
(SE, DK) may impose time limits for handling cases, sometimes suspended or not applicable in the case of an OSS 
procedure. See “Overview on resources made available by Member States to the Data Protection Authorities and 
on enforcement actions by the Data Protection Authorities” issued by the EDPB on 5 August 2021 page 22.  
9 Including following Art. 61(2) GDPR.   
10 The Contribution of the EDPB to the evaluation of the GDPR under Article 97 flags, on page 10, that “the LSAs 
have different approaches regarding the start of the cooperation procedure, the timing of involvement of CSAs, 
and the communication of relevant information to them”. See the work of the EDPB on this matter within EDPB 
Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.   
11 For instance, pursuant to Article 60.3, communicating information on the matter or submitting a draft decision 
must be done “without delay”. As to the timing of submission of the draft decision, the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 
on the application of Article 60 GDPR  (adopted on 14 March 2022) highlight that a “timely submission of the 
draft decision [...] alleviates the risks for the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, 
since corrective measures taken in due time by SAs prevent continuing infringements” (para 120), acknowledging 
at the same time that “bearing in mind the complexity and the variety of cases, the timeline in which the LSA 
needs to submit swiftly the draft decision can be quite different” (para 121). This suggests that the deadline that 
could be established should be a maximum deadline, without prejudice to the possibility and possibly the duty for 
SAs to proceed more swiftly in more straightforward cases.  
12 The EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR (adopted on 14 March 2022) specify that 
the submission of a revised draft decision should also be carried out “without undue delay” (para 167) and that the 
LSA should “make sure that the lapse of time between receipt of the relevant and reasoned objections under Article 
60(3) and submission of the revised draft decision is as short as possible and appropriate to the context of the OSS 
procedure”, “without prejudice to the efforts made to reach consensus and to the eventual obligation of the LSA 
to provide the right to be heard again, pursuant to national law, in view of envisaged changes in the revised draft 
decision that will newly affect the rights of the controller or processor” (para 168).  

 

5 

 
 
possibility  for LSAs to provide  justifications  for the impossibility  of meeting  the deadline. This 
may  help  alleviate  public  criticism  from  complainants  or the  general  public  on  some  cross-
border  cases, which  are deemed  as being  handled  too  slowly13,  with  no  final  decision  being 
published  even after a number of years.   

In addition,  Article  60  Section  3 of the  GDPR establishes  that the lead  supervisory  authority 
shall,  “without  delay”,  communicate  the  relevant  information  on  the  matter  to  the  other 
supervisory  authorities  concerned.  The  vagueness  of  the  wording  “without  delay”  poses 
challenges  in  the cooperation  procedure. For legal  certainty,  a more precise deadline  would  be 
desirable  to help  enhance cooperation  and the progression  of cross-border cases14. 

It  is  equally  important  to  foresee  the  consequences  for  not  complying  with  these  newly 
established  procedural  deadlines  (bearing  in  mind  that the  GDPR already  provides  for  an ad 
hoc procedure which  can be triggered  where certain deadlines  are not met15).   

In  addition,  it  would  also  be  desirable  to  clarify  when  the  administrative  procedures  of  a 
supervisory  authority  is  considered  to  start. In  the  context  of  cross border  cases this  would 
clarify whether the preliminary  vetting  by the CSA shall be counted into the administrative  time 
limit  or not, and with regard to local cases this could  clarify the starting  point  for calculation  of 
the deadline  to take action (as some Member States have precise rules for the timeframe within 
which the investigation  has to end). 

 

                                                             
13 The average time for each SA to formally issue a decision on a case is analysed on page 21 of the Overview on 
resources made available by Member States to the Data Protection Authorities and on enforcement actions by the 
Data Protection Authorities” issued by the EDPB on 5 August 2021.  
14  The EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR  (adopted on 14 March 2022) recall that 
although no specific timeline is provided by Article 60, “effective enforcement of the GDPR throughout the EU 
requires that all CSAs receive all relevant information in a timely manner, i.e. as soon as reasonably possible” 
(para 54). This means that “the mutual obligation to exchange all relevant information” applies “already prior to 
the submission of a draft decision by the LSA” (para 54) and should be discharged “at a moment where it is still 
possible for the LSA to take on board the viewpoints of the other CSAs” (para 55). The EDPB then recommended 
“as a minimum standard” that “all efforts” should be made by the LSA to share “the scope and main conclusions 
of its draft decision prior to the formal submission of the latter” (para 57) with the objective of achieving consensus 
(see para 56). 
15 For instance, pursuant to Article 61.8, where a supervisory authority does not provide the information referred 
to in article 61.5  within one month of receiving the request of another supervisory authority, the requesting 
supervisory authority may adopt a provisional measure on the territory of its Member State in accordance with 
Article 55(1). In that case, the urgent need to act under Article 66(1) shall be presumed to be met and require an 
urgent binding decision from the Board pursuant to Article 66(2). 

 

6 

 
 
As noted  above,  it  is important  that any identified  deadlines  take account  of the specifity  and 
complexity  of  each  individual  case.  This  case  by  case  assessment  will  also  ensure  that 
extensions  of any specified  deadline  are the exception,  thereby ensuring  legal  certainty.  

3.  Regarding complaints 
3.1.Formal  requirements  for admissibility 

Proposal 6: 

•  Harmonisation of formal admissibility requirements and conditions 
•  Conformation that LSAs shall not re-examine the admissibility of the complaint in cross-

border cases 

The experience of the SAs shows that there is insufficient  harmonization  across Member States 
on  requirements  for  complaints  under  Article  77  GDPR16. For  example,  in  some  Member 
States, an electronic  mail  suffices for the submission  of a complaint,  while  in  others, the lack 
of signature  leads  to  inadmissibility  of the complaint.  Another  example  is that  the name and 
address of the complainant  may be required  in some Member States, and not in others. In some 
countries,  the complaint  is inadmissible  due to the lack of residency of the complainant  in  the 
State of the SA,  to the fact that a prior  request has not been sent to the controller,  the lack  of 
identification  of legal  grounds  in  the  complaint  or  because the e-Gov  access was not  used to 
file  the  complaint.  Finally,  there  are  discrepancies  as  to  whether  the  complainant  has  to 
demonstrate its interest when filing  a complaint.    

The  “Internal  EDPB  Document  6/2020  on  preliminary  steps  to  handle  a  complaint: 
admissibility  and vetting  of complaints”  states that the complaint  has to fulfill  formal conditions 
of  the  Member  State  where  it  was  lodged,  and  that  the  LSA  shall  not  re-examine  the 
admissibility  of the complaint17.  However, this  internal  guidance  has no binding  effect on  the 
Member State authorities.   

                                                             
16 This was highlighted in the Contribution of the EDPB to the evaluation of the GDPR under Article 97, on page 
10.  For example,  national legislation in  AT,  BE,  BG,  IT,  LV,  NL,  PL,  SI, ES  foresees formal admissibility 
requirements. On  the other hand, no admissibility requirements  are foreseen  in CZ,  DK,  DE,  whereas a 
discretionary power regarding the assessment of admissibility is exercised in LU.  
17  This issue was flagged by some of  the individual replies to the Questionnaire shared by the European 
Commission in the context of the evaluation of the GDPR: for instance, the FR SA specified that “It appeared for 
instance that some DPAs consider they have always to assess the admissibility of a complaint regarding their own 
criteria, including when they act as LSA on the basis of complaints launched with another DPA. This could lead a 
LSA to refuse to handle a complaint, although deemed admissible by the complaint receiving DPA”. 

 

7 

 
 
In  addition,  when  investigating  cross-border  cases  it  is  essential  that  the  lead  supervisory 
authority  is  provided  with  all  the  relevant  information  on  the  complaint, 
the 
controller’s  action  or lack  thereof pursuant  to Article  12  section  3 and 4 GDPR. Harmonized 
rules on the admissibility  of the complaint  would  be desirable. 

including 

A further aspect to be considered  is the harmonisation  of the rules  relating  to the deadlines  to 
lodge  a complaint,  after the data subject unsuccessfully  exercised his rights18    

For the consistent  application  of the GDPR and the equal treatment of the complainants  across 
the EU, (i) the implementation  of harmonized  rules on the formal  requirements  of complaints, 
and (ii) the legal confirmation  that LSAs shall not re-examine the admissibility  of the complaint 
in cross-border cases19, could  be considered. 

3.2.Dismissal  or rejection  of the complaint  and termination  of the procedure initiated  by a 

complaint 

Proposal 7: 

•  Defining the situations that lead to rejection and dismissal of the complaint 
•  Clarifying procedural requirements for dismissal and rejection 

o  Confirm  explicitly  that dismissal and rejection can be  done via  formal  letter 

indicating possibility of appeal 

o  Clarify the steps the LSA and the complaint receiving SA need to take in cases of 

granted appeals by either the court in country of LSA or CSA or both 

Uniform  and consistent  rules on the dismissal  and rejection  of a complaint  and the termination 
of  the  procedure  initiated  by  a  complaint  should  be  considered,  as currently  national  rules 
diverge.  For  example,  in  some  Member  States,  the  lack  of  minimal  evidence  of  the  alleged 
infringement  would  lead  to  dismissal  or  rejection,  in  others  the  failure  of  response  of  the 
complainant  within  a reasonable timeframe results in the dismissal  or rejection  of the complaint 
or the termination  of the procedure, whilst  in  certain Member States complaints  are not filtered 
on  their  credibility  or  merits,  nor  on  the  necessary  evidence  on  the  alleged  infringement. 
Defining  what situations  must lead to rejection or dismissal  of a complaint,  and what situations 

                                                             
18 The proposal for the introduction of a time limitation is attributed to the recognition that the states claim is not 
unlimited. A time limit for introducing the complaint is envisaged in AT, SK law.  
19  confirming 
https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2022-
07/internal_edpb_document_062020_on_admissibility_and_preliminary_vetting_of_complaints_en.pdf 

Internal  EDPB  Document  6/2020 

the  approach  agreed 

available  at 

the 

in 

 

8 

 
 
may  lead  to  the  termination  of  the  procedure  is  a  much  needed  addition  for  the  sake  of 
consistency  across the Union20.   

Moreover,  clarifying  the  procedural  requirements  for  dismissal  would  be  also  a welcomed 
addendum.  In particular,  it would  be useful  to confirm  explicitly  that dismissal  can be in  form 
of  a  formal  letter  indicating  the  possibility  to  appeal.  Finally,  clarification  on  the  need  to 
exchange information  between SAs in case of dismissal  decisions  regarding  cross border cases 
would  also be welcome. 

Finally,  it  would  be  useful  to  clarify  the  procedure  in  case the  complainant’s  appeal  to  the 
decision  to dismiss  or reject the complaint  has been granted by  the court,  as in  this  situation, 
the CSA is not solely  competent and the court of the CSA's Member State has no competence 
to force the LSA to change its decision. 

3.3.Handling  complaints  with  amicable settlements 

Proposal 8: 

•  Clear and harmonised rules on resolving complaints through amicable settlement or other 

non-contentious ways  

•  Clarification of the applicability of Article 60 in case of amicable settlements 

Complaints  can  sometimes  be  resolved  in  a  non-contentious  way,  for  example  after  the 
intervention  of the SA has facilitated  the exercise of the rights of a data subject21. However, the 
current  lack  of  harmonisation  regarding  amicable  settlement22  creates  challenges.  In  the 
majority  of Member  States,  there is  no  legal  framework,  and therefore  no  possibility  for  the 

                                                             
20  The EDPB  provided, as interpretation of “dismissal or rejection”, the following: “a decision dismissing or 
rejecting a complaint (or parts of it) should be construed as a situation where the LSA has found, in handling the 
complaint, that there is no cause of action regarding the complainant's claim, and no action is taken in relation to 
the controller” (EDPB Guidelines 02/2022, para 225). It was also clarified by the EDPB  that “a dismissal or 
rejection at [the cooperation stage] is different from a possible finding of dismissal or rejection at the vetting stage 
of the complaint procedure” since “this vetting precedes any submission of the complaint to the LSA and is 
performed by the complaint receiving SA” and in “such a case, the complaint would be dismissed or rejected 
before reaching the cooperation stage” (para 229).  
21 See EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR, para 230-231; EDPB Guidelines 06/2022 
on the practical implementation of amicable settlements 
22 This lack of harmonisation was highlighted by the Contribution of the EDPB to the evaluation of the GDPR 
under Article 97  on page 10-11  and 33 (“Some SAs resolve possible infringements with so-called “amicable 
settlements” or “amical resolution” pursuant to provisions in their national law or explicit procedures. Other SAs 
aim  at resolving cases in a conciliating way, even though this is not foreseen as a formal  outcome of the 
proceedings, the case is closed when an agreement is reached between the parties or the data subject request has 
been satisfied. This is especially common when data subjects’ rights are at stake or when minor infringements are 
concerned. Nine SAs did not make use of “amicable settlements”).  

 

9 

 
 
amicable  settlements23.  In  addition,  clear  and  harmonized  rules  on  amicable  settlements, 
including  their legal  status, or dedicated simplified  procedures for handling  such complaints  are 
desirable.   

A further issue is the  need to clarify  that the amicable  settlement  achieved in  the OSS context 
on  a specific  case also requires  cooperation  on the legal  questions  behind  the individual  case 
(either  by  demonstrating  it  is  an  isolated  case or  by  explaining  what  follow  up  actions  are 
intended  to be taken regarding  the breach of GDPR provisions  by the controller).   

4.  Regarding investigative powers  
4.1.Preliminary  vetting  and  clarification  of  investigatory  powers  of  the  Supervisory 

authorities  before competence is established 

Proposal 9: 

•  Clarify investigatory powers of the SAs before competence pursuant to Article 55 and 56 

is established (preliminary vetting) 

Experience shows that supervisory  authorities  have different views on the extent to which they 
are  able  to  investigate  processing  activities  and  controllers  to  establish  competence.  The 
assessment of whether a controller  or processor has a “main  establishment”  under Article 4(16) 
GDPR and  thus the identification  of the “lead  supervisory  authority”  under Article  56 GDPR 
depends  on  specific  requirements24.  In  some  cases, for instance,  the determination  of where 
“decisions  on  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing  of  personal  data”  may  require  the 
collection  of evidence. At the same time, requesting  information  and carrying out investigations 
are investigative  powers  as per  Article  58(1)  GDPR,  entrusted  to  the competent  supervisory 
authority.  Codifying  rules for preliminary  vetting,  steps to be followed  and the clarification  of 
the investigatory  powers of the authorities  before competence is established would  be desirable. 
In particular,  harmonisation  could  be desirable  regarding  the fact that complaint  receiving  SAs 
should  perform preliminary  investigations  on the cross-border nature of complaints  and, where 
appropriate,  their potential  local  impact,  especially  for cases involving  the exercise of rights. 

                                                             
23 Hence, recital 131 GDPR establishing that the  supervisory authority receiving a complaint or detecting or being 
informed otherwise of situations that entail possible infringements of the GDPR  should seek an amicable 
settlement with the controller, cannot take real effect in many of the Member States (see Annex 2 of Guidelines 
06/2022 on the practical implementation of amicable settlements). 
24  See the WP29 Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor’s lead supervisory authority, adopted on 
13/12/2016, endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018:  

 

10 

 

4.2.Investigating  “to the extent appropriate” 

Proposal 10: 

•  Clarifying when further investigation is and is not required 

 

Article 57 Section 1 f) of the GDPR provides  that each SA shall  handle complaints  lodged,  and 
investigate,  to the  extent appropriate,  the  subject  matter of  the complaint.  However,  it  is  not 
always clear when further investigation  is not  required. Taking  into  account the independance 
and margins  of manoeuvre  of SAs to  assess the elements  of  each case, providing  indications 
that  allow  identifying  cases where further  investigation  is  not  warranted would  mitigate  the 
legal  uncertainty,  and harmonize  practices. 

4.3.Compliance  with  enforcement orders 

Proposal 11: 

•  Confirming that SAs are competent to monitor compliance with enforcement orders 

A clear confirmation  that the  investigative  powers of  the supervisory  authorities  pursuant  to 
Article  58  Section  1  GDPR include  the  power  to  monitor  compliance  with  the  enforcement 
orders contained  in the final decision would  be highly  welcome. This way any remaining  doubts 
as to  the powers  of SAs to  monitor  the  adequate execution  of  their  final  decisions  would  be 
dispelled. 

5.  Regarding the cooperation procedure pursuant to Article 60 GDPR 
5.1.Informal  cooperation  and scope of the information  exchanged between SAs 

Proposal 13: 

•  Further clarification of the scope, content and modalities of information sharing 
•  Clarification of the term “relevant information” in Article 60(1) and (3) 
• 

List (types of) documents that must systematically be shared between SAS 

 

Pursuant  to Article  60  (1)  and (3)  GDPR,  the LSA has  an obligation  to cooperate  and share 
information  with  the CSAs also  before the  draft decision  stage. In addition  to the  timing,  as 
specified  above25,  the content  and modalities  of  information  sharing  and  cooperation  during 
these  earlier  stages  could  be  further  harmonised.  For  instance,  the  current  regulatory 

                                                             
25 Please see footnote 12 above.  

 

11 

 
 
framework,  which  refers to a duty  to share “relevant  information”,  is  unclear about  the scope 
and  nature  of  the  documents  that  must  be  shared  with  other  Supervisory  Authorities  in  the 
context of the OSS, both at the early stages26 of the Article 60 cooperation  procedure and during 
the different phases, in case new evidence is collected  by the LSA (or CSAs). It would be useful 
to  list  unambiguously 
the  documents  that  must  systematically  be  shared  between  SAs27, 
including  the initial  complaint  and evidence  submitted  by the complainant  insofar  relevant to 
the case, relevant official  procedural documents adopted by the concerned supervisory  authority 
with  regard  to  the  admissibility  of  the  complaint,  all  relevant  documentation  pertaining  to 
investigations  carried  out  by  the  lead  supervisory  authority  including  on  the  scoping  of  the 
investigation,  and  (a  summary  of)  the  written  submissions  by  the  parties  to  the  national 
proceedings.  While  the  relevance of additional  documents  to be provided  to  other concerned 
supervisory  authorities  shall  remain  a matter for the lead supervisory  authority  to decide,  draft 
decisions  (or  at least summaries  of the main  elements  of the case and  of the legal  reasoning) 
could also be included  among the relevant information  that LSA share, aiming  at trying  to reach 
consensus before presenting  them under the terms of article 60.3 GDPR. The LSA should  also 
                                                             
26 In practice, the identification of the scope of the investigation, be it in complaint-based or own volition inquiries, 
often causes difficulties, as to the extent to which the LSA should involve CSAs in this decision (which may rely, 
inter alia, on available resources, existence of parallel inquiries, enforcement strategies and other considerations) 
is not fully clear. The EDPB Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant and reasoned objection (V2 adopted on 09 March 
2021) specify that the “system designed by the legislator suggests that consensus on the scope of the investigation 
should be reached at an earlier stage by the competent SAs” (para 28). More specifically: “In procedures based on 
a complaint or on an infringement reported by a CSA, the scope of the procedure (i.e. those aspects of data 
processing which are potentially the subject of a violation) should be defined by the content of the complaint or of 
the report shared by the CSA: in other words, it should be defined by the aspects addressed by the complaint or 
report. In own-volition inquiries, the LSA and CSAs should seek consensus regarding the scope of the procedure 
(i.e. the aspects of data processing under scrutiny) prior to initiating the procedure formally. The same applies in 
cases where a SA dealing with a complaint or report by another SA takes the view that an own-volition inquiry is 
also necessary to deal with systematic compliance issues going beyond the specific complaint or report”, para 27). 
However, in practice it may occur that this early involvement on the identification of the scope of the investigation 
does not take place. This may lead to disagreements on the scope at a time - e.g. the time when draft decisions are 
made available to the CSAs -  where it is often too late or  extremely  challenging to adjust the scope of the 
investigation of the LSA. The EDPB has acknowledged the possibility for relevant and reasoned objections to be 
raised on this point, but this as a “last resort to remedy an allegedly insufficient involvement of the CSA(s) in the 
preceding  stages  of the process” (Guidelines on relevant and reasoned objections, para 28).  The  possible 
consequences of objections raised by CSAs on this point are specified in the Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a), 
adopted on 13 April 2021(especially paragraphs 77-81). One way to solve this issue is by introducing provisions 
on a duty to agree on the scope of the investigation (it should be clarified whether this duty has different features 
depending on whether the case is complaint-based), e.g. via the mandatory sharing of the investigation scope in an 
early stage of the investigation or a mandatory meeting between the LSA and CSAs. This way, the CSAs could 
have greater influence on determining the scope. 
27 The EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 engaged in an interpretation of this wording, by specifying that the information 
to be considered as “relevant” “depends on the circumstances of each individual case” as it should encompass “all 
information that is directly or indirectly conducive to the conclusion of the proceeding” (para 46) with the goal of 
enabling all SAs involved to fulfil their role properly (para 47). Please see also para 48-53 for further details and 
specific examples of “relevant information”.  

 

12 

 
 
share  information  about  the  progress  of  the  case. Confidentiality  assurance  related  to  this 
exchange  of information  would  ensure that useful  documents  can always  be shared between 
SAs28. 

5.2.Information  of the supervisory  authorities  concerned and the Board pursuant  to Article 

60 (7) GDPR, and moment  when decisions  can be published 

Proposal 14: 

• 

Implement rules on the timeframe  and the modalities of the obligation to inform the 
Board of the adoption of a decision pursuant to Article 60(7) 

•  Harmonise rules on the publication of decisions, including timeframe 

Regulating  the timeframe  (e.g. as soon as the decision  was notified  to the concerned entity  vs. 
only after expiry of all legal remedies/appeals) and modalities  (pseudonymized  vs. anonymized) 
of the information  on the adoption  of the decision  pursuant to Article 60 Section 7 GDPR would 
be desirable29. 

Currently  Member States have diverging  rules on the moment when decisions  can be published, 
which  can lead to  transparency issues  and lack  of a level  playing  field.  While  some Member 
States allow  for a publication  once the SA has made its decisions,  others only  allow  publication 
once  the  decision  can  no  longer  be  appealed.  Related  rules  would  be  desirable  in  order  to 
standardise the practices of supervisory  authorities  and allow  for greater transparency as to the 
decisions  adopted30.  

                                                             
28  The EDPB  Guidelines 02/2022  already specify that the “LSA and other CSAs may flag specific pieces of 
information as (highly) confidential, particularly when this seems necessary in order to meet requirements of 
confidentiality constraints  laid down in  national laws. In  such a case, the SAs should  inform each other 
immediately and jointly find legal options for a solution against the background that confidentiality provisions 
usually relate to external third parties and not to CSAs. In this regard, any information received that is subject to 
national secrecy rules should not be published or released to third parties without prior consultation with the 
originating authority, whenever possible” (para 52).  
29 See EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 (para 211-212, 215-217).   
30 Including via the Register of OSS Decisions kept by the EDPB.   

 

13 

