 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

* UOOUX00CLF7Y *

 
 
 
 
Ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-64

DECISION

 
 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as an appellate body competent pursuant to § 2, § 29
and Section 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Personal Data and on the Amendment of Certain Acts
and pursuant to § 10 and § 152 para. 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Procedure Code decided on 27 July
2018 according to the provisions of § 152 par. 6 let. b) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, as follows:
 
Disintegration of the accused,

 
, against the decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-56

, flat

 

of 20 June 2018, is rejected and the contested decision is upheld.

 
 

Justification

 

Proceedings on suspicion of committing an offense against the accused,

 
 (hereinafter "accused"), was
  which was the Office for Protection

, flat

launched at the initiative of the statutory city
personal data (hereinafter referred to as the "Office") delivered on 31 August 2017.
  
The complaint received and its annexes showed that the accused had published on 23 August 2017
via the social network Facebook on your profile post that contained personal
data
  employee of the Department of Social Affairs of the City Hall
 in the range of name, surname, maiden name and date and place of birth obtained from
file of criminal proceedings and further referred to her as a crooked witness in criminal proceedings, where
  she really acted as a witness. In this context, it is necessary

to state that the accused was a verdict

sentenced to a suspended sentence

the accused is transferred to the statutory city
concluded that it is not a criminal offense.
  

 however, it was subsequently a criminal case
 Commission for the consideration of offenses,

1/4



  employee of the Department of Social Affairs of the City Hall

, employee of the Department of Social Affairs of the City Hall

The administrative body of the first instance of the Office first qualified the conduct of the accused as committing an offense
offense pursuant to Section 44a of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on Personal Data Protection and on Change
certain laws, in the form of indirect intent by disclosing personal data
,
to the extent of the surname, date and place of birth obtained from the criminal proceedings file
sp. zn.
, thereby violating the obligation set out in § 8b paragraph 1 of the Act
No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (Criminal Procedure Code). According to this provision, the persons to whom
information covered by the ban has been provided by law enforcement authorities
publication pursuant to Section 8a (1), second sentence, of the Criminal Procedure Code for the purposes of criminal proceedings, or
to exercise the rights or fulfill the obligations stipulated by a special legal regulation, they may not
no longer provided to anyone unless their provision is necessary for those purposes, in which case
these persons must be instructed. Therefore, the order ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-5 of 19 October
2017, the accused was fined CZK 3,000. The accused, however, against this order
he gave due resistance.
 
In the following proceedings, the accused was found guilty of identical conduct
offense, but this time according to § 44 par. 1 let. c) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as he had
violate the duty of confidentiality in the form of indirect intent, by disclosing personal data
 
to the extent of the surname, date and place of birth obtained from the criminal proceedings file
sp. zn.
. This was to violate the obligation set out in Section 15 (1) of the Act
No. 101/2000 Coll., ie the obligation of a person who, within the framework of fulfilling the rights stipulated by law
and duties comes to the controller's contact with personal data, maintaining confidentiality about these
personal data.
decision
Ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-19 of 6 February 2018, pursuant to § 35 letter b) of the Act
No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for misdemeanors and proceedings against them and in accordance with § 44 para. 4
Act No. 101/2000 Coll., a fine of CZK 3,000 was imposed.
 
However, on the basis of the proper dissolution of the accused, the decision no. UOOU-08596 / 17-19 ze
annulled on 6 February 2018 and remitted to the administrative authority of first instance for a hearing.
The decision in question by the President of the Office ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-40 of 26 April 2018
it stated that the administrative authority of the first instance had not established the state of affairs so that they would not arise
doubts, in particular, it has not been clearly established where the data in question comes from.
The administrative authority of the first instance was therefore ordered to take further evidence and then act
re-qualify the accused.
 
Subsequently issued decision of the administrative body of the first instance ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-56 of
However, on June 20, 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the "decision"), the act of the accused was again found to be
breach of the obligation stipulated in § 15 paragraph 1 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and thus as committing
offense according to § 44 par. 1 let. c) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., for which she was accused
imposed a fine of CZK 3,000.
 
However, the accused challenged the decision with a proper appeal. In the appeal, he proposed the attacked
decision to annul. In support of this, he stated above all that he is not a person who would be bound
confidentiality. He then had to obtain the data in question as a participant in the criminal proceedings. Through
Facebook only informed the circle of acquaintances who have access to the profile in question.
Access to the criminal file was to be denied to the accused, so that the data published from him
they can't come.
but she was heard as a witness at the main trial

the deed was then accused

For the subject

2/4



and this information was voiced here without the witness requesting their secrecy. Because it was not excluded
public, the data were presented to the public. The allegation that the information in question was obtained from
file, as they have not been read, should therefore be a hypothesis and, moreover, legally irrelevant. Idea
secrecy, according to which anyone present as a public in court should keep it secret
the facts he heard there are, in the defendant's view, completely absurd. Its decomposition
the accused subsequently supplemented with two e-mail messages, the e-mail of
On July 8, 2018, as part of a personal visit to the seat of the Office, he authorized his signature. This
however, as the accused merely refuses to classify his conduct as
offense, denies the legitimacy of the Office, criticizes the Office for delays in the proceedings and refers to certain legal
regulations must be considered irrelevant.
 
The appellate body reviewed the decision in its entirety, including the previous process
its issue and in this context also dealt with the arguments of the accused.
 
In particular, he found that the administrative body of the first instance in accordance with the instructions contained
in the decision of the President of the Office ref. UOOU-08596 / 17-40 of April 26, 2018 proceeded
for further proof. Based on the request for cooperation then
, Judge
, stated that only the name, surname and title were communicated publicly
District Court in
  The court had her ID card only for the purpose
verification of identity and whether the said data agree with the data in the file, while in the positive
In this case, there is no reason to publicize them in the main trial.
 
This corresponds to the audio recording of the main trial of March 24, 2016, which you
the administrative authority of the first instance also requested. It is clear from it that the judge first spoke
 is here. So far, me
at 0:38 a list of witnesses called: “And of the witnesses
don't give anything until you don't like it here ...
…. "
Subsequently, specifically when summoning a witness,
, sounded at 12:48 p.m.
from the judge: "So.

. "The court clerk said:"

 

to the courtroom. "And then the judge said," Hello, come on, present me
identity card. Civil (note - whisper). So go to court. So
witness heard
, letter number 22. ”The witness's instructions followed
and the interrogation itself, which contained no mention of the witness's personal details

 to the extent stated in the operative part of the decision.

 
It is also clear from the received copies of the documents that a copy was issued to the accused, among other things
official record of the explanation
of 5 May 2015, which
it shall also contain the date, place of birth and surname of the person giving the explanation,
the accused repeatedly inspected his criminal file and made copies
documents and sound recordings which formed part of it.
 
Furthermore, the administrative body of the first instance stated that the file material did not contain instructions in
pursuant to Section 8b of Act No. 141/1961 Coll.
 
The appellate body therefore considers that it was reliably established that they were not made public during the main proceedings
or otherwise disclosed to the personal data of the witness,
  stated in the statement
decision, ie her maiden name, date and place of birth. It is therefore completely undecided whether
the public was or was not excluded from the hearing, as well as the fact that the witness did not request it
on the confidentiality of your personal data. Furthermore, as stated above, it was proved that the accused was watching

3/4



to the criminal file, repeatedly. He also repeatedly made copies of him or him
were made on request. The personal data in question thus come from the criminal file,
whose administrator was first the Police of the Czech Republic and then the competent court and for this
the accused is bound by the duty of confidentiality pursuant to Section 15 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. Claim
regarding the disclosure of the Facebook profile only to a limited circle of known accused
then the very acquisition of the print screen by the first-instance administrative body refuted it.
 
The appellate body therefore rejected the defendant's arguments. At the same time after a general review
Notes that no reason has been found to render the decision illegal;
in particular, it considers the fine to be reasonable and did not find any errors of procedure
administrative authority of the first instance. On the basis of all the above, he decided
the appeal body as set out in the operative part of this decision.
 
               
Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů, v. R.

chairwoman

 
Prague, July 27, 2018
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
For correctness of execution:

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

4/4

