1/8

*

Procedure No.: PS/00223/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
RND PATINAJE, S.L., by virtue of a claim filed by Ms. A.A.A. (in
hereinafter the claimant) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claimant filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection on 10/19/2018. The written claim is directed against RND
PATINAJE, S.L., with NIF B88133236 (hereinafter the claimed). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are, in summary, the following: that he had managed the dismissal at his
daughter in the hockey club in which she was enrolled; however, when reviewing the
club app the real low discovered that there were pictures of her daughter with the rest of the
equipment both in the application and on the web page, without having granted your
express consent. In addition, this week he has discovered a video on the page
facebook of the club, for which it has not given authorization either. the only thing about it
on personal data was at the time of registration in the club through a
link to the general conditions where it says that I authorize the recording of photos and
videos.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 12/10/2018, reiterated on 01/15/2019, the writ was transferred to the defendant
filed for analysis and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted
about. Likewise, it was required that within a month he send to the
Agency certain information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

The respondent has not responded to any of the requirements

formulated by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

On 05/23/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the affected party against the defendant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

THIRD: On 07/05/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the claimant in writing of allegations
09/25/2019 indicated that: the claimant had given her express consent
included in the general conditions of the entity; that the claim filed is
of 10/19/2018 being the first of the e-mails requesting the withdrawal of the images
it is later; that all images were removed or edited to be
identification impossible, the request being received on 10/24/2018; that good faith
It must be the way to resolve conflicts, so if there were more images, the
claimant can make as many requests as he deems appropriate and will proceed to his
elimination as it could not be less; that it is impossible for the claimant to base its
claim in images dated after 10/26/2018; that the situation of
defenselessness of the defendant is absolute, violating, among others, his right to
defending; that no notification has been received from the AEPD regarding this
claim on the dates indicated in the initiation agreement.

FIFTH: On 10/08/2019 a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following:

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
filed by the claimant.

Request from RND Patinaje SL: a copy of the privacy policy, contained in
the General Conditions where it is accepted to be part of the club by
subscribers, through which the data must be treated in accordance with the
criteria and requirements established in the General Regulation for the Protection of
Data from the European Union; documentary, graphic or sound accreditation of the
Consent granted for the publication of the photographs of the daughter of the
claimant and in which each of the
purposes or matters for which that is demanded; copy of emails
crossed with the claimant related to the incident revealed
in the claim.

Request from the claimant the documentation in their possession related to
with referral procedure that for whatever reason would not have been
provided at the time of the claim.

On 10/16/2019, the respondent responded to the requested evidence, the content of which

work on file.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 10/19/2018 it has entry in this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant, stating that she had arranged for her daughter to be discharged in
the hockey club in which she was registered (RND PATINAJE, S.L.), however, when
reviewing the club's website discovered that there were photos of his daughter with the rest of the team, without
that you have given your express consent; In addition, he had also discovered
a video on the club's facebook page, for which he has not given
authorization; that the only time he gave consent was at the
time of registration in the club through a link to the general conditions
where it says that I authorize the recording of photos and videos.

SECOND. There is an email from the claimant dated 10/20/2018, one day
after the claim filed with the AEPD, addressed to the representative of the
claimed containing the following:

“(…)
I have been consulting your computer application, website and Facebook, something that
I had not done so far and I have seen photos and videos published by both the team of
Rollybear like from the hockey school, where my daughter, Almudena Angulo, appears.
As a legal representative, given that she is a minor and does not have
permission to do so, I request you to make the immediate withdrawal of said photos and videos of
the mentioned pages.
(…)”

Respondent's representative's response on the same date:

“Tell us one by one which ones are identifying B.B.B., please, and we will remove them without
issue".

In addition, there is a subsequent exchange of e-mails between the representative of the
claimed and the claimant, caused by the difficulty of identifying the minor in the
marked photographs, being definitively resolved the removal of the images
on 10/26/2018.

THIRD. In the General Conditions of the claimant there is the heading Data
Personal, in which the following is indicated:

“They will be treated in accordance with European data protection laws, the Regulation
General Data Protection of the European Union and these conditions
generals.

Under the GDPR and national laws, you are informed that your personal data
will be collected in the files owned by RND Skating, in order to carry out
your registration and participation. Your data may be used to inform you of future
events organized by RND Skating.

RDN Skating will be able to film and photograph the participants during the development of the
events and activities. In accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 1/1982, of 5
of May, of the right to honor, to personal and family privacy and to one's own image,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

By accepting these conditions, you express your consent to freely transfer to
RND Skating the image rights in relation or recordings that are made to the
competitor.

The participant authorizes RND Skating to use these images and photographs in
advertising elements that can be made (inserts, brochures, posters,
informative publications, catalogs and web pages and in all kinds of social networks and
internet media. As well as, any other means without more limitations than the
derived from the Personal Data Protection Law and the Organic Law of
Right to Honour, Personal and Family Privacy and Own Image.

(…)”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Article 89, Proposal for a resolution in procedures of a nature
sanctioning, of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, in its section 1 establishes that:

II

"1. The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with file
of the actions, without it being necessary to formulate the proposal for
resolution, when in the instruction procedure it is made clear that
any of the following circumstances occur:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction.

b) When the facts are not proven.

c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement
administrative.

d) When it does not exist or it has not been possible to identify the person or persons
liable or appear exempt from liability.

e) When it is concluded, at any time, that the infraction has prescribed.

In the present case, the claimed facts refer to the insufficiency of the
conditions of consent established in the application for registration in the club
for the exercise of activities, not complying with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Article 6, Legality of the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

conditions:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

And article 7, Conditions for consent, of the RGPD states that:

"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the
responsible must be able to demonstrate that he consented to the treatment of his
personal information.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a statement
writing that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be
presented in such a way as to be clearly distinguishable from other matters, in a manner
intelligible and easily accessible and using clear and simple language. It will not be binding
any part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of these Regulations.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any
moment. The withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment
based on consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving your consent, the
Interested party will be informed of this. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. In assessing whether consent has been freely given, account will be taken
to the greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the execution of a
contract, including the provision of a service, is subject to the consent of the
processing of personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said
contract".

On the other hand, article 6, Processing based on the consent of the
affected, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

In the first place, it is striking that it is the federative body, the Federation
Madrileña de Patinaje, whoever fails to comply with the regulations regarding the protection of

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

data; It should be noted that the application for processing a license from the Federation
Madrileña de Patinaje of 08/04/2018 provided by the defendant in which the
personal data of the daughter of the claimant and signed by the father of the minor is
referring to the LOPD, a rule that was repealed with the entry into force of the RGPD on
05/25/2018 and, although this is true, it is no less true that in the aforementioned document
pointed out that the data provided in any format would be incorporated into the
files for which the Madrilenian Skating Federation (FMP) is responsible; that the
data would be transferred not only to public administrations, official bodies
national and international sports, but also to companies or entities
organizers of sporting events and insurance companies that manage the
toppings; Likewise, it authorized that the image, voice and results obtained in the
competitions were published on the website and the bulletin board of the
Federation, etc, declaring having been informed of the possibility of exercising the
ARCO rights according to the current procedure.

Secondly, on the website of the person claimed, the request form
registration to the skating club leads to the General Conditions, in which section
Personal Data, as stated in the proven facts, it is established
that:

  “RDN Skating will be able to film and photograph the participants during the
development of events and activities. In accordance with the provisions of the Law
Organic 1/1982, of May 5, on the right to honor, to personal and family privacy
and in the image itself, by accepting these conditions, you express your consent in
assign free of charge to RND Skating the image rights in relation to or
recordings made to the participant.

The participant authorizes RND Patinaje to use these images and
photographs in the advertising elements that can be made (inserts,
brochures, posters, informative publications, catalogs and web pages and in all kinds
of social networks and internet media. As well as, any other means without more
limitations than those derived from the Personal Data Protection Law
and the Organic Law on the Right to Honour, Personal and Family Privacy and Own
Image".

On the other hand, it is surprising that the date of entry of the complaint 10/19/2018
was prior to the date on which the claimant requested the removal of the photographs from
the web and the social network Facebook on 10/20/2018; that is, practically without giving
time to the claimed to fail to comply with what was requested, procuring and providing
in this way the necessary elements to ensure the success of your claim.

However, in view of the emails provided by the
representative of the claimed once the minor was identified in the supports
corresponding, the images were withdrawn acting with a reasonable
diligence.

Likewise, the representative of the defendant states that he does not know or figure
among the documentation of the club the formulation of any informative requirement by
part of the AEPD.

In this order of ideas, it should be taken into account that in the
sanctioning administrative are applicable, with some nuance, but without

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

exceptions, the inspiring principles of the penal order, having full virtuality the
principle of presumption of innocence, which must apply without exception in the
sanctioning system and must be respected in the imposition of any
sanctions. This, because the exercise of the ius puniendi, in its diverse manifestations,
is conditioned to the game of proof and to a contradictory procedure in which
can defend their own positions.

In this sense, the Constitutional Court, in Judgment 76/1990, considers that
The right to the presumption of innocence entails “that the sanction be based on
acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating the reproached conduct; that
the burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove
his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the result of the tests
practiced, freely valued by the sanctioning body, must be translated into a
acquittal pronouncement.

As the Supreme Court has specified in STS of October 26, 1998, the
validity of the principle of presumption of innocence "does not preclude the conviction
judicial process in a process can be formed on the basis of circumstantial evidence, but
In order for this test to invalidate said presumption, it must satisfy the following
constitutional requirements: the evidence must be fully proven – not
may be mere suspicions – and you have to explain the reasoning under
which, based on proven evidence, has reached the conclusion that the
accused carried out the infringing conduct, because, otherwise, not even the subsumption would be
founded in Law nor would there be a way to determine if the deductive process is
arbitrary, irrational or absurd, that is, if the right to presumption has been violated
of innocence when estimating that the evidentiary activity can be understood as a charge.”

Therefore, as stated,

            The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE RND PATINAJE, S.L., with NIF B88133236, for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to RND PATINAJE, S.L. with NIF
B88133236.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
114.1 c) of the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

