
More transparency on the Internet for more conscious handling of your own data
Safe Internet Day



On Safer Internet Day on February 9th, the State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) Lower Saxony, Barbara Thiel, is calling on providers of Internet and other online services to be more transparent. This year's campaign day, which is primarily aimed at children and young people, has the motto "What do I believe? – Opinion formation between fact and fake”.

"On the one hand, young people have to learn how to deal responsibly with news and its sources," says Barbara Thiel. "On the other hand, they also need information about how the data that they consciously or unconsciously disclose online is handled." Websites and other services must therefore provide more open and, above all, more understandable information about the use of user data than they have been doing up to now. "Transparency is an essential prerequisite for being able to move safely on the Internet and consciously make one's own decisions," says Thiel.

Action week will be made up for
In recent years, the LfD Niedersachsen had supported the initiative "Data protection goes to school" around Safer Internet Day. LfD employees visited schools in Lower Saxony during a campaign week to sensitize young people to safe and conscious use of the internet and social media. "We very much regret that we cannot be in the schools this year due to the corona pandemic," says Thiel. “We evaluated a digital alternative but concluded that it would not be suitable for this type of exchange. However, we will make up for the week of action as soon as the situation allows it - hopefully this year."

The "Data protection goes to school" initiative was launched in 2009 by the professional association of data protection officers in Germany (BvD). For teachers who want to deal with the topic in class themselves, the BvD provides a manual free of charge. The Safer Internet Day has been held annually since 2004 on the initiative of the European Commission.

Press release as PDF download.

Further information:
Safe Internet Day 2021
Privacy goes to school

