1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00359/2018

RESOLUTION: R/00224/2019

In procedure PS/00359/2018, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF CORIA DEL RIO, given the
complaint filed by Don A.A.A. (*claimant) and by virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: On June 4, 2018, the claimant filed a COMPLAINT with the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by the alleged treatment of
data made through cameras of a video surveillance system whose alleged
holder is the CITY COUNCIL OF CORIA DEL RIO with NIF P4103400J (hereinafter the
claimed) installed on top of a lamppost.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "placement by workers
from a video camera on top of a lamppost located at ***ADDRESS.1 very close
of the Police Headquarters (...) that directly focuses on the entrance of the police station itself
Leadership"

"The aforementioned video-camera does not have any distinctive elements and is

powered by an electric cable

“The agents have NOT been informed of the placement of the aforementioned camera

by the Local Corporation, nor about its purpose” (folio nº 1).

Along with the documentation, it provides documentary evidence (photographs) of scant
clarity, which allow us to intuit what was stated in the written complaint formulated, when
perceive some type of device on top of a lamppost.

SECOND: On 06/22/2018, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the
entity denounced--CORIA DEL RIO CITY COUNCIL---no response
any has manifested in relation to the transferred facts, stating as
notified in the computer system of this body.

THIRD: On March 5, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection proceeded to issue the Start Agreement within the framework of the
PS/00359/2018, for alleged violation of the content of art. 6 GDPR. Saying
agreement was notified to the defendant.

FOURTH: Consulting the computer system of this Agency, there is no allegation
any of the entity denounced in relation to the "facts" that have been
transferred.

FIFTH: On 05/27/19, the "Proposed Resolution" is issued
considering that the current regulations had been violated, not proceeding to carry out
any allegation to this body about the facts in question.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 06/04/18, this Agency received a claim from the Complainant
transferring as main fact the following:

“placement by operators of a video camera in the upper part of a
lamp located in ***ADDRESS.1 very close to the Police Headquarters (...) that focuses
directly the entrance of the Jefatura itself”

Second. It is identified as a denounced party—Coria del Rio City Council—
(Sevilla), which is accused of placing a video-surveillance device without informing
duly to the citizenry.

Third. The installation of a device is accredited (documentary evidence attached
I) according to evidence provided by the denouncing party.

Fourth. It has not been possible to verify that the device has an informative poster in
Visible zone indicating the person in charge of the system.

Fifth. The Commencement Agreement to the public entity has been notified in due time and form
denounced, although it has not made any allegation in this regard.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this Agency 06/04/18 through which the main fact is transferred:

“placement by operators of a video camera in the upper part of a
lamp located in ***ADDRESS.1 very close to the Police Headquarters (...) that focuses
directly the entrance of the Jefatura itself”

"The aforementioned video-camera does not have any distinctive elements and is

powered by an electric cable

“The agents have NOT been informed of the placement of the aforementioned camera

by the Local Corporation, nor about its purpose” (folio nº 1).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Therefore, the facts are specified in the installation of some type of device
presumably by workers of the City Council of Coria del Rio at the "top of
a lamppost” without an informative poster in this regard.

Article 6.1 of the RGPD (Legality of the treatment) establishes the assumptions
specific conditions under which the processing of personal data is considered lawful.
the interested.

In this case, from the documentation contained in the procedure, the
existence of some type of device that could be obtaining images of
disproportionate to the purpose of the system.

The cameras installed by public entities may have the purpose of
protection of publicly owned real estate and its surroundings, whenever it is
according to the purpose pursued with the installation of this type of device.

However, on some occasions the protection of private spaces is only
it is possible if the cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes also
it is necessary to capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that although the
camera is inside the building, it is impossible not to record minimum and
essential of the public road, which is inevitably captured.

Article 22 section 2 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the

Next:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section. However, it will be
possible the capture of the public road in a greater extension when it was
necessary to guarantee the security of strategic goods or installations or of
infrastructures linked to transport, without in any case implying the
capturing images of the interior of a private home”.

From the exposed facts it is also inferred that the device in question lacks
informative poster placed in a visible area, so that anyone affected can
know the identity of the person responsible for it, as well as the way to exercise the
rights recognized in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD.

The exposed facts could suppose the commission, on the part of the defendant of a
infringement of article 12 of the RGPD, in the terms referred to both in the aforementioned
article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, and the respondent must give
due compliance with the provisions of article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of 8
November, from the Spanish Data Protection Agency. Consequently, the
claimed must:

1. Place at least one informative badge in the video-monitored areas
located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 RGPD, in the informative badge
mentioned above must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts.

2. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

quoted GDPR;

III

The reported events may affect personal data
(images) of third parties without just cause, and not counting on the mandatory poster
informative indicating the person in charge of the file to whom, if applicable, you can contact.

This represents a very serious infringement of the rights and principles
inspiring the regulations in force (art. 83. 5 RGPD) to be able to be "processing data"
of third parties outside the permitted assumptions and without adopting the legal measures
timely.

Article 58 section 2 of the RGPD "Each control authority will have

all of the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation (...)”.

In the present case, it is worth noting the total lack of collaboration with this
Agency, not informing about the device in question, nor about the characteristics of the
same.

Article 73 letter o) LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides: "In
According to the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

“Not cooperating with the control authorities in the performance of their duties

in cases not provided for in article 72 of this organic law”

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that there are proven indications of the
installation of a video-surveillance device, with presumed orientation
disproportionate, without duly informing the person responsible for it for the purposes
appropriate legal.

The denounced entity must immediately accredit before this
Agency that the device in question complies with current legislation or assume in its
defect the appropriate legal consequences.

According to what was stated,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- NOTICE (PS/00359/2018) to the public entity CORIA CITY COUNCIL
DEL RIO for the infringement of article 6 RGPD, typified in art. 83.5 letter a) GDPR,
having installed a video-surveillance device affecting the right of
third parties without just cause, being the same sanctioned under the provisions of
article 58.2 GDPR.

2.- REQUEST the entity CITY COUNCIL OF CORIA DEL RIO to comply with
the following measures:

 Contribution of screen printing (date and time) of what, in your case,

captures with the device in question.

 Contribution of photographic proof of the informative poster, indicating
expressly the person in charge before whom the rights can be exercised
recognized in the current legislation.

 Motivated explanation of the cause/reason for the installation of the camera in

question.

3- NOTIFY this Agreement to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF CORIA DEL
RIO and inform the OMBUDSMAN.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

