1/11

 File No.: PS/00346/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 03/09/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS, S.L.
with CIF B12535183 (hereinafter, the claimed party) for lacking the website
***URL.1 of a Privacy Policy adapted to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD).

The claim indicates the following, in relation to the matter of protection of
Personal data:

"I want to report that the website aniversalia.com has not published any email,
telephone or other contact information where I can go in order to exercise my rights of
access, rectification, cancellation, opposition of personal data…”.

Attach the following documentation:

- Emails dated 08/10/2020 and 08/11/2020, sent by the
claimant to the company Nicline (***EMAIL.1) and its response. In the first
mail, the claimant requests the deletion of her personal data on the web
***URL.1 for assuming a violation of your privacy and defamation of your
Name.

In response to this, the aforementioned company requests the complainant to
provide more information, such as the domain of the web page to which it refers.

- Emails dated 02/22/2021 (two emails) and 03/09/2021 (two
mail), sent by the claimant to the company Arsys (***EMAIL.2), as well as
like the answers on this one. In short, the claimant requests the aforementioned
company that helps you “contact the Aniversalia company or whoever
have contracted the domain aniversalia.com to be able to exercise my rights
cancellation and deletion of personal data, among others”.

However, the entity responds as follows: "Unfortunately, we cannot
respond to your request. We suggest that you contact the company that
invoice the services related to your domain. If you are the holder of
domain aniversalia.com and can not get in touch with your service provider
services, we suggest you write to our Domains Department at ***EMAIL.3

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

indicating that you are the owner of the domain and that you want to start managing it. You
We will give all the information of the procedure”.

- A copy of the form on the website ***URL.1 completed by the
claimant in which you request to be informed about how to exercise your rights
access, rectification, deletion, cancellation, opposition of your data
personal, which are published on the aforementioned website.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection verified that the website ***URL.1 as of 04/14/2021 continued
without adapting its Privacy Policy to the provisions of the RGPD. Under the heading “Notice
Legal and Privacy Policy”, divided into four sections, indicates the following: “In
compliance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/99, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data, we inform you that the data you provide us
facilitate by completing this form will become part of
a file owned by ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS S.L. for the management of
USERS and in accordance with our privacy policy. Likewise, we inform you that
You can exercise your rights of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition in the
headquarters of ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS S.L. Street ***ADDRESS.1.”

In the second section, it adds: “At ANIVERSALIA we are committed to protecting your
privacy. You can visit most pages of our site without
provide us with any information about yourself. However, sometimes
we need information to offer the requested services and this declaration of
privacy explains the collection of data and its use in those situations…”.

In the third section ("Personal Information"), mention is made of the collection, use,
control, access and security of personal information that is collected through the
website ***URL.1; while the fourth section is dedicated to the Policy of
Cookies.

Also, the Mercantile Registry was accessed to know the general data of the
claimed and it contains an address other than the one indicated in the Privacy Policy.
Privacy, as well as the Whois record in which they appear as registrants of the
web domain ***URL.1, ***URL.2 together with ARSYS INTERNET, S.L.

Lastly, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection verified that the
I activate the claimant's profile on the web ***URL.1 where you can access your
personal data, specifically your name and surnames, age, province and country.

Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the Agency gave
transfer of it to the claimed one on 04/21/2021, in accordance with article
65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD). Occurred
a first notification attempt through the Electronic Notification Service,
being rejected on 05/02/2021 once the ten-day period has elapsed
established. Subsequently, a second attempt was made by mail
postal, result “Returned to origin due to surplus (not picked up at the office), as recorded
in the Delivery Impossibility Notice issued by Correos.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

THIRD: The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed
admit for processing the claim filed by the claimant on 06/29/2021.

FOURTH: On 09/22/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: In compliance with the provision of article 14.2 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP) the agreement to open the procedure was notified to the
claimed electronically.

The certificate issued by the Electronic Notification Service Support service
and Authorized Electronic address of the National Currency and Stamp Factory (in
forward, FNMT), which is in the file, proves that the AEPD put the notification
available to the recipient on 09/22//2021 and that on 10/03//2021
produced the automatic rejection of the notification.

Article 43.2, second paragraph, of the LPACAP establishes that “When the notification
by electronic means is mandatory, or has been expressly chosen
by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when ten days have elapsed
natural since the notification is made available without accessing its
contents".

In turn, article 41.5 of the LPACAP specifies that "When the interested party or his
representative rejects the notification of an administrative action, it shall be recorded
in the file, specifying the circumstances of the notification attempt and the
medium, considering the procedure completed and following the procedure”.

SIXTH: The respondent did not make any objections to the agreement to initiate the procedure.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP) - provision of which the party was informed
claimed in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if
they make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement,
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
charged, may be considered a resolution proposal.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

SEVENTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure agreed in the third point of the
operative part “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation
obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: A claim is filed for non-compliance with the regulations of
data protection on the website ***URL.1.

SECOND: The Spanish Data Protection Agency has notified the respondent
the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, but this has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, when they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with the above definitions, data collection
through forms included in a web page constitutes a
data processing, in respect of which the data controller must give
compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

c) (...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

v

In this case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradicts the facts denounced within the term for it.

This Agency has verified that the conduct of the respondent is not in accordance with the
data protection regulations, since its website ***URL.1 does not contain all the
information required in article 13 of the RGPD, indicated in the legal basis
III.

Thus, the exposed facts constitute, on the part of the claimed, a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

SAW

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83, sections 1 and 2 of the RGPD, a provision that states:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;
 
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

  j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose in the present case, it is appropriate to grade it according to the following criteria
aggravating factors established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction. The claimed, not
Providing the information required by article 13 of the RGPD prevents
affected address the data controller to exercise their rights and
know the purposes of the treatment, among other damages.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

-

-

The negligence in the infringement. The action of the defendant supposes a
gross negligence since the Privacy Policy examined cites the day of
today Law 15/1999, on the Protection of Personal Data (LOPD),
resulting in application since 2018 the RGPD, for which it has had three
years to adapt it to the new regulations.

The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement. The
The way in which the AEPD has been informed has been through the interposition of the
complaint by the claimant.

- The degree of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the
infringement. After the claim has been notified and, subsequently, the
opening agreement, in order to be able to answer and, where appropriate, take
measures to prevent the infringement, the AEPD has not received any response.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, it allows setting as a valuation
initial fine of €2,000 (two thousand euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution requires the claimed party, as data controller, to
incorporate a Privacy Policy adjusted to the provisions of the ***URL.1 website
in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as the provision of supporting evidence
compliance with what is required

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS, S.L., with CIF B12535183, by
an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €2,000 (two thousand euros).

SECOND: REQUEST ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS, S.L., with CIF B12535183, to
under the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten
working days from this act of notification proves before this body the adoption
of measures to provide information to the people whose personal data it collects,
in accordance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to ANIVERSALIA NETWORKS, S.L..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

