1/12

 File No.: EXP202104939

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), on October 16,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN
CANARIA, with NIF P3501700C (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are as follows:

The claimant states that, on the website of the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS
OF GRAN CANARIA, the minutes of the Plenary Session, dated
01/28/2019, where it is recorded, in relation to some allegations made to a
municipal ordinance, your name, surnames and DNI.

Along with the claim, provide the minutes.

It has been found that the aforementioned document is currently accessible,
displaying controversial data.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected,
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP, dated December 10,
2021, as stated in the certificate that is in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
dated December 20, 2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to
communicate electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means
of access to said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, you would be notified
exclusively by electronic means.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

No response has been received to this transfer letter.

THIRD: On January 16, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the admission for processing of the claim presented by the
claiming party.

FOURTH: On June 24, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on June 28, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the term granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is recorded that on October 16, 2021, the complaining party filed
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, against the
CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA, having published in its
website, the minutes of the Plenary Session dated 01/31/2019, where it is recorded in
regarding allegations you made to a municipal ordinance, your name,
surnames and ID.

SECOND: It has been verified that the document is accessible on the web
of the said body.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Local Regime Legislation

Regarding publicity of municipal activities, article 70 of the Law
Regulator of the Bases of the Local Regime, (LBRL), in the wording given to it
by Law 57/2003, of 16/12, provides the following:

"1. The plenary sessions of the local corporations are public. Nope
However, the debate and vote on those matters that
may affect the fundamental right of citizens referred to in
Article 18.1 of the Constitution, when so agreed by an absolute majority.

The sessions of the Local Government Board are not public.

2. The agreements adopted by the local corporations are published or notified
in the manner provided by law.

3. All citizens have the right to obtain copies and certifications
accrediting the agreements of local corporations and their background,
as well as to consult the files and records in the terms provided by the
implementing legislation of article 105, paragraph b), of the Constitution. The
denial or limitation of this right, in everything that affects the security and
defense of the State, the investigation of crimes or the privacy of individuals
must be verified by reasoned resolution.”

That the sessions are not public does not add anything about the publication of the acts
administrative, since they govern general rules on notification and publicity of the
agreements as appropriate (art. 70.2 LBRL).

The regulation referred to by the LBRL can be found in its development rule, the
Royal Decree 2568/1986, of 11/28, which approves the Regulation of
Organization, Operation and Legal Regime of Local Entities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

"Article 229

1. The calls and agendas of the plenary sessions will be transmitted
to the social media of the locality and will be made public in the
Notice board of the entity.

2. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 70.2 of Law 7/1985, of April 2,
The Corporation will give summarized publicity of the content of the plenary sessions
and of all the agreements of the Plenary and of the Government Commission, as well as of
the resolutions of the mayor and those dictated by his delegation by the Delegates.”

Nothing is specified on the minutes, nor on the minutes of the Local Government Board. Of
In the same way, the basic principles of data protection link the minimization
of data, adequacy and need for treatment with the purpose in article 5.1 c)
“Principles relating to processing”:

1. The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Not specifying what should be the summary that can be published of the sessions
plenary sessions, and not making express reference to the publication of the minutes of the Board of
Local Government, there is no legal mandate for said summary to offer the same
content that article 109 prevents for the minutes, and therefore, the part
dispositive of the agreements that are adopted, and on the other, the essential nucleus of the right
of information of the neighbors remains intact insofar as they always and
regardless of the publication of said abstract, they may directly exercise
the right to information.

The "summary" referred to in said precept recommends eliminating from the same
those personal data that are not adequate, pertinent and are
excessive in order to offer "generic" information to the neighbors, and from
then in no case should they contain sensitive personal data.

Otherwise, this minimization duty is specified in the additional provision
seventh of the LOPDGDD, which establishes the following:

“When the affected party lacks any of the documents mentioned in the
two preceding paragraphs, the affected party will be identified only by name and
surnames. In no case should the name and surnames be published together
with the complete number of the national identity document, identity number of
foreigner, passport or equivalent document.

III

Previous issues

The City Council of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, like any other public entity,
is obliged to comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data -RGPD-, and of the LO 3/2018, of December 5, of Protection of Personal Data-
them and Guarantee of Digital Rights -LOPDGDD- with respect to the treatments
of personal data that they carry out, understanding by personal data
nal, “all information about an identified or identifiable natural person”. It is considered
An identifiable natural person is one whose identity can be determined, directly or
indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a name,
an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or more
various elements of physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic identity,
cultural or social heritage of that person.

Likewise, treatment should be understood as “any operation or set of operations
tions made on personal data or sets of personal data, either by
automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structure
ration, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, co-
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of authorization of access,
collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction”.

Taking into account the above, (…).

It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the RGPD:
“responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the criteria
specific for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member states.
Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of se-
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or unlawful transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
In the present case, there is a security breach of personal data in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality,
whenever the City Council has revealed information and personal data to
third parties, without the express consent of the owner of said data, when publishing in their
website the minutes of the Plenary Session dated 01/31/2019, where the
name, surnames and ID of the claimant.

This type of data, as well as any other information that is referred to
natural persons, are considered personal data, so their
Treatment is subject to data protection regulations and since there is no
a legal obligation of the City Council to carry out such publication, it is necessary to
consent of the affected party to proceed with the aforementioned publication.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

According to GT29, a "Breach of confidentiality" occurs when there is
unauthorized or accidental disclosure of personal data, or access to
themselves.

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the imposition
sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary to analyze the
diligence of those responsible and in charge and the security measures applied.
Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the RGPD, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the RGPD. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, which regulate the security of the
treatment, notification of a violation of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

IV

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

“Article 5 Principles relating to processing:

1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In relation to this principle, Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR states that:

“[…]Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access
or unauthorized use of said data and of the equipment used in the treatment”.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, principles related to treatment.

The AEPD verifies that, at least up to the present date, it is possible to access the
content of the Act by typing the electronic address of the City Council in the
browser, so the publication on the data web page is accredited
personal data of the claimant, such as their name, surnames and DNI.

Consequently, it is considered that the proven facts are constitutive of
infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading “General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

a)
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

SAW

Article 32 of the GDPR

Article 32 of the RGPD, security of treatment, establishes the following:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The facts revealed imply the lack of technical measures and
organizational by enabling the display of personal data of the claimant
with the consequent lack of diligence by the person in charge, allowing access not
authorized by third parties.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the lack of preventive measures.
security, since it is responsible for making decisions aimed at implementing
effectively the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data,
restoring their availability and preventing access to them in the event of an incident
physical or technical.

Therefore, the proven facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed party, for violation of article 32 RGPD.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

7th

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee an adequate level of security when
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

viii

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to impose penalties", in article 28
under the heading “Responsibility”, the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

IX

Sanction

Article 83 “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines” of the
RGPD in its section 7 establishes:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

In the present case, it is considered appropriate to sanction the party with a warning.
claimed, for infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and for the infringement of article 32
of the RGPD, due to the lack of diligence in implementing the appropriate measures
with the consequence of breaking the principle of confidentiality.

X

Measures

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

 d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Likewise, it is appropriate to impose the corrective measure described in article 58.2.d) of the
RGPD and order the claimed party to, within a month, establish the measures
adequate security measures so that the treatments are adapted to the demands
contemplated in articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD, preventing the occurrence of si-
similar situations in the future.

The text of the resolution establishes the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION the CITY COUNCIL OF THE
PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA, with NIF P3501700C, for an infringement of article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

SECOND: TO SANCTION the CITY COUNCIL OF THE
PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA, with NIF P3501700C, for an infringement of article 32
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

THIRD: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA,
to implement, within a period of one month, the necessary corrective measures to adapt
their performance to the personal data protection regulations, which prevent the
similar events are repeated in the future, as well as to inform this Agency in the same
term on the measures adopted.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS
OF GRAN CANARIA.

FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

