1/133

 Procedure No.: PS/00500/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 6, 2018, this Agency received a letter from Mr.
A.A.A., in which he denounces that the entity CAIXABANK, CONSUMER FINANCE, EFC has
requested to EMPRESA.1 information on the inscriptions related to his person in the
COMPANY file.2. He states that at present there is no contract nor has
requested any service from any company of the CAIXABANK group. He points out that although
was a client of CAIXA, said relationship was formally terminated in 2014 with the termination of
all existing contracts.

Said claim was transferred to the Data Protection delegate of the person in charge,
in accordance with the provisions of article 9.4 of Royal Decree-Law 5/2018, of 27
July, of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish Law to the regulations of the
European Union on data protection, receiving a response from
CAIXABANK CONSUMER FINANCE EFC, S.A.U., in which an error of
human and punctual character. It was indicated that, although the claimant was a client in the
past, at the date of the claim it had already ceased to be. Despite this, his
data was mistakenly included in a pre-granted credit campaign.

On February 6, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agrees not to admit the submitted claim for processing, noting however
in said resolution that "This is without prejudice to the fact that the Agency, applying the powers of
investigation and corrections that it holds, can carry out subsequent actions
regarding the processing of data referred to in the claim.”

Said resolution was appealed, alleging the claimant that said entity, of which he did not
is a client, since his relationship with her was punctual and limited in time within the
of a sales contract with associated financing finalized years before, has used
solvency files in order to prepare a profile and offer you a
financial service, without asking for your consent. This resource was estimated.

SECOND
 : In view of this claim, on October 16, 2019, the Director
 
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection urged the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection the beginning of preliminary investigation actions that reveal what
form CAIXABANK CONSUMER FINANCE EFC, S.A.U is profiling the
personal data of its clients in the context of its commercial activity, in order to
verify its adequacy to the personal data protection regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/133

THIRD
 
 : On February 6, 2020, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data makes request to CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.
to provide the following information:

List of personal data processing activities of clients and/or potential clients
clients carried out in the development of the commercial activity of CAIXABANK
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U. that involve profiling
(according to the definition set forth in article 4.4 of the RGPD, in particular with regard to the
economic situation of the interested parties). For each of the treatment activities
of personal data, contribution is requested:

1. Definition of the logic applied in the profiling and the expected consequences of said
treatment for the interested party.

2. Description of the purpose of the treatment and detail of the basis of legitimacy of the
article 6.1 of the RGPD on which it is based.

3. Procedure followed to comply with the duty of information to the interested party (articles
13 and 14 of the GDPR)

4. Means used to collect consent in the event that the activity of
treatment is covered by article 6.1.a of the RGPD.

5. Categories of interested parties and personal data subject to treatment.

6. Origin or origins of the personal data subject to treatment (with an indication of the
basis of legitimacy that supports, where appropriate, the use of data collected from sources
external - credit information systems, other companies of the business group,
etc.-).

7. If applicable, list of treatment managers who participate in the activity of
profiled on behalf of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U. and copy
of the contracts that govern said treatments.

8. Description of the technical and organizational security measures applied in
under article 32 of the RGPD to the profiling activity.

9. If applicable, a copy of the Personal Data Protection Impact Assessment
(EIPD) carried out on the profiling activity.
10. Number of interested parties whose personal data have been processed in the development
of profiling activity by category (client, potential client) and year (2018 and
2019).
 
FOURTH: On March 2, 2020, CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
EFC, EP, S.A. requests an extension of the term due to the impossibility of collecting and
structure the required information within the established period.

On March 3, 2020, the Deputy Director General for Data Inspection
agrees to extend the term to respond for a period of five days, which
must be computed from the day following the day on which the first term ends.
granted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/133

FIFTH: On June 2, 2020, you have entered this Agency in writing
response to the request for information referred to in point
SECOND. In said document the following is stated:

In the first place, reference is made to the fact that "on March 14, 2020, the
in the Official State Gazette (BOE) and Royal Decree 463/2020, of 14
March, which declares the state of alarm for the management of the situation of
health crisis caused by COVID-19, which includes in its Additional Provision
third, the suspension of administrative deadlines, applying the suspension of
terms and the interruption of deadlines to the entire public sector defined in Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public; being, therefore, suspended the terms and interrupted the deadlines
for the processing of procedures of public sector entities,
decreeing that the computation of said terms will be resumed at the time of the
expiration of the validity of this Royal Decree, extended, in turn, by Royal
Decree 476/2020, of March 27, which extends the state of alarm
declared by virtue of the preceding legislative text, as well as by its extensions
successive.”

Secondly, it makes some preliminary considerations, of which they must
highlight the following:

-

-

“CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER is the entity resulting from the
merger operation by absorption between CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C., E.P.,
S.A.U., absorbed company, and CaixaBank Consumer Finance, E.F.C., S.A.U.,
acquiring company; both wholly owned by CaixaBank, S.A.
(hereinafter also called “CaixaBank”). This merger took place in
date of July 11, 2019, after having been notified of the non-opposition of
Bank of Spain to the structural modification operation, under the
prevented in Law 10/2014 of June 26, on management, supervision and
solvency of credit institutions, as well as the corresponding procedure
of authorization before the Ministry of Economy and Business provided for in the Law
5/2015 of April 27, promoting business financing. What
As a result of the aforementioned operation, CaixaBank Consumer Finance,
E.F.C., S.A. has been subrogated by universal succession in all
rights and obligations, acquired and assumed, respectively, by
CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U., changing its corporate name
to the current CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.”

“The main activity of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER consists of
the commercialization of credit or debit cards (hereinafter,
called "Cards"), credit accounts with or without a card (hereinafter,
called "Credit Accounts") and loans (hereinafter called
“Loans”), (hereinafter, all of them individually called
"Product" and jointly, "Products"), directly or through
third parties -whether they are agents or prescribers-, with whom they have signed the
corresponding agency or collaboration contracts. Specific:   -
Directly, CPC markets some of the aforementioned Products. -
Indirectly, CPC markets through Prescribers and agents.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/133

-

-

“Prescriptor” or “Prescriptors” means those entities with which
CPC has signed a collaboration agreement, based on which they are
undertake to offer their customers the possibility of contracting the Products
of CPCs to, mainly, finance the purchase price of the products
and/or services marketed by them (Specifiers) at their points of sale,
either face-to-face or online (for example, establishments such as
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1
Y
*** ESTABLISHMENT.3).
CPC Products
marketed through Prescribers are the Cards, the Accounts of
Credit and Loans.”

 *** ESTABLISHMENT.2

  In particular,

or

 

“Finally, agent means CaixaBank, S.A. (onwards,
indistinctly the "Agent" or "CaixaBank"), entity with which CPC maintains
an agency agreement, by virtue of which CaixaBank promotes and concludes,
through its channels, the CPC Cards, as well as, where appropriate, loans
refinancing of the debt derived from these Cards.”

Regarding the personal data processing activities that in the development
of its commercial operations imply the elaboration of profiles, according to the definition
consigned in article 4.4 of the RGPD, in particular with regard to the situation
of the interested parties, indicates that they are the following:

I

II.

“Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment of a
interested in your Request for a Product: It consists of the evaluation by
part of CPC of the Request for a Product (Card, Credit Account or
Loan, hereinafter the "Application") received from an interested party (in
hereinafter, “Applicant” or “Applicants”). This evaluation involves a
processing of personal data that is specified in the necessary assessment
of the repayment capacity or solvency of the Applicant (probability of
default risk). Said assessment is carried out, within the framework of the Application
received, in order to comply with what is established by the regulations that, in
quality of financial credit establishment and payment institution,
results from application to CPC (Prudential and Solvency Regulations and
Responsible Lending).”

“Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment in the management
of credit risk granted to customers: It consists of monitoring
of the ability to return or risk of non-payment of customers to
who CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER has granted
financing and, therefore, with which it maintains a credit risk with two
purposes i) the management of the credit risk granted to them in
compliance with certain legal obligations (specifically, the
Prudential and Solvency and Responsible Lending Regulations, as
as it is defined in section I.A.6 of this writing); and, ii) the
commercial management in accordance with the consents obtained from the
holders of the data (customers) with the subsequent purpose of offering them
products and services tailored to your needs, which may include
assignment of “pre-granted” credit limits (pre-granting of a
credit based on the information available to the Entity).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/133

III.

“Analysis and selection of target audience: It consists of the analysis and selection,
prior to a certain commercial impact, of a target audience
(composed of those clients of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER that meet, where appropriate, the requirements designed to be
impacted by a potential campaign in order to offer you
Products). This treatment is carried out in accordance with the
consents obtained from the owners of the data (clients).”

Regarding the categories of data owners that are treated in the execution of the
detailed treatments, states that "it only treats data of interested parties that are
clients of the Entity or applicants of its Products. Does not perform data processing
about interested parties that could be called “potential clients”, understanding by
these, holders of data that do not have a current relationship with CPC or that previously did not
have requested a Product through any of the established channels.”

Thirdly, from the examination of what was stated by CPC regarding the activity
called "analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment for the
credit risk management granted to customers during the contractual relationship”
highlight the following aspects:

1. Regarding the purposes and bases of legitimacy of the treatment, it is stated that
It has two purposes:

I

II.

“The management of credit risk granted, in compliance with
certain legal obligations of the Prudential Regulations and of
Solvency and Responsible Lending, applicable when the Product is
a credit account since, by allowing the availability of credit
granted on a constant basis, this (Product) must be adapted
constantly to the updated solvency capacity of the interested party.
As stated, the enabling title to carry out this purpose, give
compliance with regulatory requirements, is the legal obligation,
in accordance with article 6.1 c) of the RGPD.

 The commercial management in the event that you have the consent of the
data owner. Said treatment foresees, among others, being able to label the
client with the purpose of granting him a "pre-granted" (granting of a
based solely on the information available to the Entity).
In this case, only the data of those clients who have
consented to profiling.”

2. Regarding the logic applied in the profiling and the foreseen consequences of
said treatment for the interested party states the following:

“CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER uses a logic that has been defined in
the Entity's bankability process. This financing process consists
of different policies explained below and based on which they are
assigns to customers (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/133

i.

 

(…) This label is the one used by CPC to categorize its clients into
relation to the promotional activity that could be carried out on them.
Loans or Credit Accounts. (…)

•

(…)

•

•

•

(…)

(…)

(…)

As mentioned, this direct financing has a commercial purpose
so CPC only uses it in those clients who have consented to the
treatment of your data. Those who have not consented, therefore,
separate from the previous ones including themselves -for the sole purpose of respecting the
requested in relation to the processing of your data- in the subcategory of
Direct financing - D - Not evaluable. The implication of such a subcategory is, by
Therefore, customers with this LABEL 1 - D cannot be included in
commercial campaigns.

ii.

(…)

•

•

•

•

(…)

(…)

(…)

(…)

Finally, in this case also included are customers who have not authorized the
processing of your data in the Prescriber Financing subcategory - D - No
evaluable. These are, therefore, customers who have not given their consent for the
processing of profiling data.

i.

(…)







(…)

(…)

(…)

Finally, as in the other labels, there is the subcategory Extension of
limits D - Not evaluable that incorporates those clients who have not authorized the
treatment of your personal data and, consequently, cannot be
object of commercial campaigns.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/133

i.

(…)

to)

b)

(…)

(…)

(…)

• (…)

• (…)

• (…)
 
• (…)

3. Regarding the personal data subject to treatment, it is indicated that they are the
following:
 

- Identification: DNI/NIE/Passport and date of birth.

- Financial: Internal CPC data obtained or derived from the relationship
existing contract between it and its client and consultation of solvency files and
to the Risk Information Center (CIR) of the Bank of the Bank of Spain.

- Sociodemographic: postal code, country of birth and nationality, type of
housing and seniority and marital status.

- Socioeconomic: income and payments, employment status and profession, seniority
bank and domiciled entity.

- Others: risk score.

4. Regarding the origin of the personal data object of treatment, details, for the
categories of data indicated in the previous section, the following sources:

- Data provided by the Applicant in the Product Application itself.

- CPC data in relation to the Applicant in the event that the Applicant is already
client and provided that CPC has data on their payment behaviour.

- Data from external sources: in accordance with the regulations that result from
application to CPC as financial institution of credit and payment institution,
The following information is also included:



Information on the consolidated group of Group entities
CaixaBank.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/133

 Result of the query to credit information systems.

 Result of the query to the Risk Information Center

(CIR) of Bank of Spain.

(…)

5. Regarding the means used to collect consent in the event of
that the treatment activity is covered by article 6.1.a of the RGPD, informs that
the channels through which it collects the consents for commercial purposes of its
clients are the following:

a) Through the prescribers.

b) Through your CaixaBank Agent.

to)

“Through the Prescribers In relation to this channel, we can differentiate three
(3) different collection methods:

i.

The first is through the employees of the Prescriptors themselves, who,
at the time of formalizing financing contracts with customers
who want to contract the Products offered by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER, they are asked about each of the consents, and then
capture the response given by you for each of them in the Conditions
Particulars of the financing contract signed for this purpose.

In this regard, the three (3) tools provided by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS
& CONSUMER to the vendors of the Prescribers so that they can carry out the
capture of the necessary information to process the operations of
financing and, therefore, also to obtain the aforementioned consents,
are the Web “***WEB.1”, the capture App (its use is made through
a tablet carried by the vendors of the Prescribers who are constantly
movement through the store) and the "Web Auto" (...), which are the software provided by
part of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER to the Prescribers, connected
with the systems of the former (CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER), so that
their vendors process financing operations by entering
of the personal and economic data of the clients and the contractual data of
operations (TIN, APR, months of amortization, etc.), as well as collect the
consents, which will later be reflected in the Conditions
Individuals of the financing contracts that are formalized and delivered to the
customers."

Provides three screenshots that correspond to these three
tools. They note that consent is requested for the
following purposes, being able to choose yes or no in each modality:

- “I authorize the CaixaBank Group to use my data for study purposes and
profiled”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/133

- "I authorize to be sent advertising and commercial offers of the Group
CaixaBank by the following means”, which in turn allows consent or not by
each of the following headings):

 

- Telemarketing

- Electronic means such as SMS, email and others

- Post mail

- Commercial contacts through any channel of my manager

- “I authorize my data to be transferred to third parties with whom the CaixaBank Group has
agreements”

- “I authorize the CaixaBank Group to use my biometric data (image, fingerprint
fingerprint, etc.) in order to verify my identity and signature. This authorization is
It will be complemented with the registration of the biometric data to be used in each
moment"

Likewise, a screenshot of the AUTO web tool is provided in the
which is allowed to consult more details. According to the printing provided detail
consists of the following:

“Consent and protection of personal data

The authorizations that you provide now or have previously provided
may
through
www.caixabankpc.com/ejerciciode-rights.

be revoked at any

  moment to

If you grant authorization (1) the offers sent to you will be
tailored to your profile.

Authorizations (2) (3) (4) and (5) refer to the channels through which
that you agree to be contacted by the Caixabank group either by phone, by
electronic means, by post and/or in person.

If you do not authorize any channel, the Caixabank group will not be able to contact you to
offer you products of your interest.

If you provide authorization (6) at the time the data is transferred,
will inform you of which third party is the receiver of your data and if you do not agree
agreement you can revoke that authorization.

The authorization (7) is to be able to verify your identity/signature since in the
Caixabank group we use biometric recognition methods such as
facial recognition systems, fingerprint reading and the like.”

ii.

 “The second form of recruitment within this group is through the web portal
of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER authorized to process the operation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/133

of financing by the client himself, who will have been redirected by clicking
in a link included in the website of the Prescriber in question. So by
example, the interested party who decides to request the card (...) will initiate the request in the
own portal of the Prescriber *** ESTABLISHMENT.1 and immediately it will be
redirected to the web portal enabled for this purpose by and from CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER where the entire contracting procedure will take place.

In this case, it is the client himself, through his computer/tablet, who marks the
response for each of the planned treatments, which are then
transcribed in the Particular Conditions of the financing contract
formalized.”

Attached, as ANNEX DOCUMENT No. 13, is the screen displayed by the client
and in which the consents are obtained, as well as ANNEX DOCUMENT No.
14, an example of how the consents granted by the client are reflected in
the Particular Conditions of the financing contract.

Annex 13 contains a printout of the screen in which the
consents, which coincide with those described above in point
relative to the prescriber channel.

Annex 14 is called APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT. Is structured
in various sections related to personal data of the owner and co-owner, to the
purchase, the financing plan, etc. Of these sections, it is worth highlighting the
indicated in the SUMMARY OF DATA PROCESSING AND
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR DATA PROCESSING.

 The SUMMARY OF TREATMENTS section contains the following information:

“the treatments of your data with respect to which you can facilitate your
authorization in the terms established in this contract are the
following:

“COMMERCIAL PURPOSES:

Processing of data by Caixabank Payments
TO.
& Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank Group with
study and profiling purposes to inform you of the products
that suit your interests/needs, as well as for the
monitoring of contracted services and products, carrying out
surveys and design of new services and products.

b.
Processing of data by Caixabank Payments
& Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank Group with the
purpose of communicating offers of products, services and
promotions marketed by them, their own or third parties whose
activities are included among the banking, services of
investment and insurance companies, share holdings, venture capital,
real estate, road, sale and distribution of goods or services,
consultancy, leisure and charitable-social services.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/133

c.
Transfer of data by Caixabank Payments &
Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank Group to third parties with
the purpose that they can send you communications
commercial. Said third parties will be dedicated to the activities
banking, investment and insurance services, ownership of
shares, venture capital, real estate, roads, sales and
distribution of goods and services, consultancy services, leisure and
charitable-social.

OTHER PURPOSES

Processing of the biometric data you provide by
TO.
Caixabank Payments & Consumer and
the companies of the
GrupoCaixabank, such as facial image, voice, fingerprints,
graphs, etc., in order to verify their identity and signature with the
help of biometric recognition methods.”

In the section AUTHORIZATIONS FOR DATA PROCESSING there are
a series of sections in each of which, both for the holder and for
the co-owner two boxes appear, one to mark yes and another to mark no, the
various authorizations to carry out data processing. These authorizations
are the following:

TO)
“I authorize the processing of my data for the purpose of study and
analysis by Caixabank Payments & Consumer and the companies
of the Caixabank group.”

b)
“I consent to the processing of my data by Caixabank
Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank group with the
in order for them to communicate offers of products, services and
promotions through the channels that you authorize.” In this case, the yes/no boxes
are broken down for each of the following channels: Telemarketing,
Electronic means such as SMS, email and others, Postal mail. contacts
commercials through any channel of my manager.

“I authorize Caixabank Payments & Consumer and the

c)
companies of the Caixabank group transfer my data to third parties.”

i.

The third way is through telephone capture in which the
vendors of the Prescribers and managers of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER. In this case, the Prescriber's salesperson provides the
manager of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER all customer data
necessary to formalize the financing operation and it processes it. One time
approved the hiring, the client, by means of the Particular Conditions of the
contract that you must sign, defines the granting of your consents
marking freely and in a handwritten way your option on the boxes
enabled for this purpose, as can be verified in DOCUMENT No. 14
attached to this letter”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/133

This document has been described in the previous point.

to)

  “Through your CaixaBank Agent. Additionally, CPC is a beneficiary of the
consents granted, where appropriate, by customers before CaixaBank.
We attach an example of the consent collection screens in the
CaixaBank branches where it is the customer himself who, interacting
directly with the device provided by the employee (Tablet), proceed to
signal your preferences in relation to the processing of your data.”

In the screen print, which you incorporate in your writing, various
authorizations for each of which there is the option to mark yes or no in
their respective box. The authorizations refer, as in the previous cases:

-To the use of the data for study and profiling purposes, clarifying that
If the offers that are sent to you are authorized, they will be adapted to the profile of the
interested.
 
- To receive advertising and commercial offers. At this point it is also allowed
choose the channels to receive advertising by checking the respective box.
- To transfer the data to third parties with whom the Caixabank group has agreements.

-The use of biometric data in order to verify my identity and signature.

6. Regarding the procedure followed to comply with the duty of
information to the interested party (articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD) indicates that "It is attached, as
ANNEX DOCUMENT No. 12, copy of the general conditions that is provided to the
interested in the framework of the contracting of a product and in which it is informed of what
provided for in article 13; not resulting from application, therefore, the provisions of the
article 14 of the RGPD.”

The document contained in annex 12 called "GENERAL CONDITIONS
OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT” contains various sections,
referring to section number 26 to the "Processing of personal data
based on the execution of contracts, legal obligations and legitimate interest and
Privacy Policy". This point is structured in turn in 10 sections, of which
which it is interesting to transcribe here the information contained in points 26.1 and 26.4.

“26.1 Processing of personal data for the purpose of managing
Business Relations.

The personal data of the Holder, both those that he himself provides, as well as
those derived from commercial, business and contractual relations
established between the Account Holder and CaixaBank Payments & Consumer either in
the marketing of its own products and services, either in its capacity as
mediator in the commercialization of products and services of third parties (in
hereinafter all referred to as Business Relations), or of the
Business relations between CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies
of the CaixaBank Group with third parties and those made from them, are
incorporated into files owned by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/133

the companies of the CaixaBank Group holding the Commercial Relations,
to be treated in order to comply with and maintain them,
verify the correctness of the operation and the commercial purposes that the Holder
accept in this contract.

These treatments include digitization and registration of documents
identifiers and the signature of the Holder, and its availability to the internal network
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, to verify the identity of the
Holder in the management of its Commercial Relations.

The indicated treatments, except those that have a commercial purpose whose
acceptance is voluntary for the Holder, they are necessary for the
establishment and maintenance of Business Relationships, and
will necessarily be understood to be in force while said Relationships
Commercials remain in force. Consequently, at the time of
Cancellation by the Holder of all Business Relationships with CaixaBank
Payments & Consumer and/or with the companies of the CaixaBank Group, the
mentioned data processing will cease, being your data canceled
in accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, keeping them by CaixaBank
duly limited its use until the derivative actions have prescribed
thereof"
“26.4. Treatment and transfer of data for commercial purposes by
CaixaBank and the companies of the CaixaBank Group based on consent.

In the Particular Conditions of this contract it will be collected, under the heading
of authorizations for data processing, the authorizations that you
grant or revoke us in relation to:

(i) Data analysis and study processing for commercial purposes by
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and companies of the CaixaBank Group.

(ii) The treatments for the commercial offer of products and services by
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group.

(iii) The transfer of data to third parties.

In order to put at your disposal a global offer of products and
services, your authorization to (i) data analysis and study processing, and
(ii) for the commercial offer of products and services, if granted,
shall include CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank detailed at www.caixabank.es/empresasgrupo (the "companies of the
CaixaBank Group”) who may share and use them for the purposes
indicated.

The detail of the uses of the data that will be carried out in accordance with your
authorizations is as follows:

 (i) Detail of the analysis, study and monitoring treatments for the offer
and design of products and services adjusted to the client's profile. bestowing his
consent to the purposes detailed here, you authorize us to:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/133

a) Proactively carry out risk analysis and apply it to your data
Statistical techniques and customer segmentation, with a triple purpose:
 

one)
Study products or services that can be adjusted to your
specific profile and commercial or credit situation, all for
make commercial offers tailored to your needs and
preferences,

2) Track the contracted products and services,

 Adjust recovery measures on non-payments and incidents

3)
derived from the contracted products and services.

b) Associate your data with that of other clients or companies with which you have
some type of link, both family or social, as well as due to their property relationship
and administration, in order to analyze possible interdependencies
in the study of service offers, risk requests and
contracting of products.

c) Carry out studies and automatic controls of fraud, defaults and incidents
derived from the contracted products and services.

d) Conduct satisfaction surveys by telephone or electronically
in order to assess the services received.

e) Design new products or services, or improve the design and usability of the
existing, as well as define or improve the experiences of users in their
relationship with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank.

The treatments indicated in this point (i) may be carried out in a
automated and entail the elaboration of profiles, with the purposes already
marked. To this effect, we inform you of your right to obtain the
human intervention in the treatments, to express their point of view, to
get an explanation about the decision made based on the treatment
automated, and to challenge said decision.

(ii) Detail of the treatments for the commercial offer of products and services
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group.
By granting your consent to the purposes detailed here, you
authorizes:

Send commercial communications both on paper and by means
electronic or telematic, related to the products and services that, in each
time: a) markets CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or any of its
CaixaBank Group companies b) market other companies
owned by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and third parties whose
activities are included among banking, investment services and
insurer, shareholding, venture capital, real estate, road, sales

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/133

and distribution of goods and services, consultancy services, leisure and charity-
social.

The Holder may choose at any time the different channels or means by which
whether or not you want to receive the indicated commercial communications through
your internet banking, through the exercise of your rights, or through your
management in the CaixaBank branch network.

The data that will be processed for the purposes of (i) data analysis and study,
and (ii) for the commercial offer of products and services will be:

a) All those provided in the establishment or maintenance of

commercial or business relationships.

b) All those generated in the contracting and operations of products and
services with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, with the companies of the
CaixaBank Group or with third parties, such as account movements or
cards, details of direct debits, payroll direct debits,
Claims derived from insurance policies, claims, etc.

c) All those that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or the companies of the
CaixaBank Group obtain from the provision of services to third parties,
when the service is addressed to the Holder, such as the
management of transfers or receipts.

 

d) Whether or not you are a CaixaBank shareholder, as stated in the
records of this, or of the entities that, in accordance with the regulations
securities market regulator must keep records of the
Securities represented by book entries.

e) Those obtained from the social networks that the Holder authorizes to consult.

f) Those obtained from third parties as a result of requests for

aggregation of data requested by the Owner.

g) Those obtained from the Owner's browsing through the web service
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and other websites this and/or of the
companies of the CaixaBank Group or mobile phone application of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and/or the companies of the Group
CaixaBank, in which it operates duly identified. These dates
may include information related to geolocation.

h) Those obtained from chats, walls, videoconferences or any other

means of communication established between the parties.

The Holder's data may be supplemented and enriched by data
obtained from companies providing commercial information, by data
obtained from public sources, as well as by statistical data,
socioeconomic (hereinafter, "Additional Information") always verifying

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/133

that these comply with the requirements established in the regulations in force
on data protection.”

7. Regarding the number of interested parties whose personal data have been processed in the
development of profiling activity by category (client, potential client) and year
(2018 and 2019), (...).

Finally, regarding the third activity carried out called "Analysis and
selection of target audience” states the following:

1. Regarding the definition of the logic applied in the profiling and the
anticipated consequences of such treatment for the interested party, states that "The
processing activity known as Commercial Profiling responds to the
need for CPC to analyze, select and extract, prior to its impact
commercial, the target audience to which the commercial communications will be directed
associated with a potential campaign.

  For this purpose, CPC selects and extracts the information of the clients to whom
potentially they will be sent the commercial communications of the campaign in
question.

For this, personal data from internal sources of CPC are processed.
(Host, DataPool and DataWareHouse) of those of its clients who have authorized
expressly the treatment of commercial profiling and, subsequently, they have not
revoked. Regarding the aforementioned repositories (Host, DataPool and DataWareHouse),
takes a list of clients based on the result obtained once the process has been carried out.
treatment based on the client's consent, detailed in the previous section ("II.
Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment for risk management
of credit granted to clients”) and on said list of clients, filters of
selection based on identifying data such as age ranges, language of
communication, sex, location or address, with the aim of proceeding to the extraction
of the target audience to which the campaign will be directed. Ultimately, the system
generates a file with the selection of the target audience that meets the conditions
set after filters are applied.

It should be noted, however, that the selection criteria that, in essence,
constitute the logic applied to profiling, they do not become standardized parameters
but they are segments that vary and adjust to the needs of the
Product or the characteristics associated with the commercial or promotional initiative of
which its launch is intended, as well as the type or volume of data
that CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER has with respect to each of
the interested.

For its part, the consequence that the profiling activity carried out by
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER generates on the client, is limited to the
fact that it will become, or not, part of a list that could potentially be
used in the framework of a commercial campaign.”

2. Regarding the description of the purpose of the treatment and detail of the basis of
legitimacy of article 6.1 of the RGPD on which it is based, states that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/133

“CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER processes the personal data of the
interested parties associated with the activity of Commercial Profiling in order to know if the
they meet the necessary conditions for their inclusion in a potential
commercial campaign and improve the impact of your commercial campaigns. Definitely,
although expressed in different terms, the profiling process linked to this
treatment activity is carried out with the aim of generating the list with the public
objective that, at later times, can be exploited to impact customers
through communications with commercial content. On the other hand, as for the title
enabling, is the one provided for in art. 6.1.a) of the RGPD (consent).

3. Regarding the procedure followed to comply with the duty of information to the
interested (articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD), refers to what is exposed in the activity of
treatment “Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment for the management
of credit risk granted to customers” in which reference was made to the document
Annex No. 12.

 4. With regard to the means used to collect consent in
In the event that the treatment activity is covered by article 6.1.a of the RGPD, it will be
also refers to those indicated in the treatment activity "Analysis of the
repayment capacity or default risk for credit risk management
granted to clients.

5. State the following regarding the categories of interested parties and data
personal object of treatment:

“The category of interested parties subject to the treatment called Commercial Profiling
is that of clients with a current contract with CPC. The category of potential clients in
no case is subject to this processing activity”

 “The personal data subject to treatment are the following:

 - Identification: client identifier, NIF/NIE/Passport, name and surname, date
of birth, gender, postal address, email, telephone (landline or mobile) and
communication language.

  contracted products and services and condition of
Financial:
owner/beneficiary/proxy and the label resulting from the treatment described in the
previous section II).”

6. Regarding the origin of the personal data subject to treatment (with an indication of
the basis of legitimacy that supports, states that "The origin of the data of
personal character object of treatment is the interested party and the internal sources
owned by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, already described in point 1 of
this section (III. Treatment: "Commercial Profile"), as well as the labels
detailed in the previous section (Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of
non-payment for credit risk management granted to customers). In this case, the
The basis of legitimacy is the consent of the interested party (art. 6.1.a RGPD).”

7. Regarding the number of interested parties whose personal data have been processed in the
development of profiling activity by category (client, potential client) and year

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/133

(2018 and 2019), points out that "First of all, it must be indicated that the numbers that are
reflected below refer only to the category of customers, since
that in this profiling activity data of potential clients is not processed, of
in accordance with what is stated in point b) of the Preliminary Considerations. (...).”

SIXTH: Information is obtained on the volume of sales of the entity, being the
results of the turnover during the year 2019 of €872,976,000. capital
social security amounts to €135,155,574.

SEVENTH: On December 23, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5.a of the RGPD, declaring that the corresponding sanction would amount to
a total of 3,000,000.00 euros, without prejudice to what resulted from the instruction.

EIGHTH: Once notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the investigated entity presented on 28
December 2020 written, reiterated on January 4, 2021, in which he requested
extension of the term in order to present allegations. Granted the extension of the
deadline dated December 30, 2020, a brief of allegations was filed on the date
January 19, 2021, in which he requests the annulment of the initiation agreement,
subsidiarily, the filing of the proceedings and subsidiarily, in the event that
considers him responsible for the infractions of article 6, that the
warning or, failing that, to impose the amount of the sanction in its degree
minimum. In any case, the consents obtained are not declared null and, if
If this were the case, the AEPD orders the measures that, in its opinion, may be
adequate to improve compliance with data protection regulations.

The aforementioned entity bases its requests on the allegations that, in summary, are
set out below, which divides into two groups:

A. In relation to the initiation agreement and the violation of principles of
administrative action and sanctioning procedure

1. Considers that for the Agency the complaint referred to in the first incident
of the initiation agreement, is relevant for its adoption, since in the SECOND
factual background it is stated verbatim that “In view of this claim, with
dated October 16, 2019 the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
data urged the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection to initiate actions
previous investigations that reveal how CAIXABANK CONSUMER
FINANCE EFC, S.A.U is profiling the personal data of its
clients in the context of their commercial activity, in order to verify their adequacy
to the personal data protection regulations.”

It indicates that the facts that motivate the initiation of a sanctioning procedure
form part of the minimum content of the initiation agreement (article 64.2.b of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, hereinafter LPACAP) and that, despite the relevance that
has the complaint in the Initiation Agreement, some details about the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/133

procedure followed with such Claim since, although it is mentioned that this was
transferred to the Delegate of Data Protection of the person in charge of the treatment, it will not be
refers to the date of the transfer (November 29, 2018); indicated
erroneously that the transfer of the claim was carried out in accordance with the
provided for in article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, when it was carried out in accordance
with the provisions of article 9.4 of Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 (BOE July 30, 2018,
repealed on December 7, 2018 by the LOPDGDD and it is obvious that on February 7
2019, the AEPD agreed not to admit the aforementioned claim for processing.

No motivation on the part of the Agency is attached to the fact that a
8 months later, the inadmissibility of processing a claim gives rise to the start of
preliminary investigative actions. There is no direct connection between the
content of the inadmissible claim and the beginning of previous proceedings. Since the
object of the complaint not admitted for processing, was the fact that the complainant was
included in a pre-granted credit campaign and that such commercial communication
was attributed to a human error, qualified as punctual and exceptional, on the other
part, an error unrelated to the profiling logic or process,
but rather for having considered that the interested party was still a client of the Entity,
adopting at the time measures so that it would not happen again, an error that, in
In any case, it did not cause any damage to the interested party or to third parties.

Of a punctual and exceptional human error that had as the only consequence for the
interested in its inclusion in a commercial campaign and in respect of which the Director of
the AEPD agreed not to admit the claim for processing, apparently it follows that 8
months later, the same Director urged the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data to initiate previous investigation actions, in order to obtain
information on how CAIXABANK CONSUMER FINANCE EFC, S.A.U.
was “profiling the personal data of its clients in the context of
its commercial activity”, with the “object of verifying its adequacy to the regulations of
personal data protection".

2. Affirms that in general, the possibility of opening a period of information or
of previous actions before initiating a sanctioning procedure is foreseen in
Article 55 of the LPACAP, and corresponds exclusively to the competent body for
initiate such an administrative proceeding make that decision to the fullest extent, it is
In other words, not merely agree on the start, it must also specify the scope of the
research. In this case, such decision corresponds exclusively to the Director of
the AEPD, as head of the administrative body. The information request
raised on February 6, 2020 clearly overreached the instructions on
the previous actions given by the Director of the Agency, in particular regarding the
scope of the investigation, since what was urged by the Director of the AEPD, the
October 16, 2019, was to find out how data profiling was carried out
personal of the “CPC clients”; however, the information requirement
course surprisingly broadened its scope as the Inspector decided to also include
to the "potential clients", a change that is undoubtedly significant that exceeds the
attributions of the personnel that develops the research activity, which come
specified in article 53 of the LOPDGDD, since these should be limited to
investigate what the head of the administrative body has decided should be
object of previous investigative actions. We don't know if we have to continue
attributing this circumstance to a new error in the processing or if it is practical

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/133

It is common for inspectors to arbitrarily decide what the scope of inspections is.
previous investigative actions, ignoring the instructions of the holder of the
administrative body; we hope, in any case, that the Agency pronounces itself
respect.

3. States that, perhaps, the explanation for some of the doubts raised about the
The reasons why the Start Agreement has been issued is found in the fact that
that the actions related to this have been fed by another procedure
sanctioning against CAIXABANK, S.A. (procedure number: PS/00477/2019), whose
lengthy processing goes in parallel to the actions related to the Agreement of
Home, and in which it has also been the subject of investigation, and resolution, the same
collection of consents for the elaboration of profiles, so that we
we would find ourselves before an alleged case of violation of the “non bis in idem” principle,
first of all from the material perspective, which requires the Agency to avoid the
duplication of sanctions for the same acts, that is to say, that it could reach
punish the same conduct twice, since the conduct giving rise to the Agreement
of Start (alleged lack of consent for profiling treatment) is the
which has already been the subject of a resolution by the AEPD dated January 7, 2021
in the sanctioning procedure against CAIXABANK, S.A., for which the Agreement of
Start, in the unlikely event that the procedure continues
sanction initiated against CPC, could violate the "non bis in idem" principle,
prohibited in our legal system.

CPC is part of the CaixaBank Group. The way in which this has been articulated
Group responds to the regulation of the banking sector, which means that many
treatments are carried out under co-responsibility; in particular, that
co-responsibility applies to the treatment identified in section 6.1.
(TREATMENTS BASED ON CONSENT), with the letter A, described
such as “Analysis of your data for the preparation of profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you”, in the privacy policy of
CAIXABANK, S.A., in its version of December 17, 2020, publicly available
at https://www.caixabank.es/particular/general/politica-privacidad.html, and in the Policy
of CPC Privacy, available at https://www.caixabankpc.com/, at the bottom of the page
in the link “Privacy Policy”.

 There is identity of sanctioned subject, since CAIXABANK, S.A. and CPC are part
of the CaixaBank Group, which as companies act under a system of co-responsibility
with respect to treatments that imply the elaboration of profiles for the same
business activity, and in both cases the alleged infringement of the
article 6 of the RGPD on the same treatment and with material link to a
same collection of consents; Therefore, we are faced with an indisputable
identity of the subject, fact and foundation, consequently what is adjusted to law would be
proceed to file the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure initiated
against CPC, so that this Agency complies with the legal system and does not
arbitrarily deviate from its own administrative precedents (question of the
that we will affect, from another perspective and in detail, later).

4. It alleges that article 9.3 of the Constitution prohibits the arbitrary action of
public powers, and article 103 obliges the Public Administration to serve with
objectivity the general interests, considering that the initial agreement of this

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/133

sanctioning procedure is an arbitrary action that does not objectively pursue
the general interest, evidencing, in addition, a discriminatory treatment with respect to other
managed. It is surprising to this part that, if the Agency had a special
concern about the adequacy of the personal data protection regulations of
treatments carried out by financial entities, would not have proceeded to
propose a preventive audit plan since, as provided in article 54 of the
LOPDGDD, the Presidency of the Spanish Data Protection Agency can
agree to carry out preventive audit plans referring to the treatment of
a specific sector of activity. What surprises us and raises doubts about the
application of the principle of equal treatment is that for other sectors it seems that the
Agency has been more sensitive and has preferred to carry out a more
preventive in its supervisory activity. The administrative action of the AEPD
results erratic based on the application of disparate criteria when deciding what
mechanisms to use with one or other entities or sectors, especially taking into account
account that the Director of the institution in public statements has equated
certain sectors and, however, later it has decided to apply action criteria
very different management.

We know very well that already in 2016 CAIXABANK, S.A. shared with the
AEPD aspects that have now been sanctioned, or for which it is intended
now sanction CPC, when it decided of its own accord to communicate to the authority a
documentary structure related to the adequacy of the Caixabank Group to the RGPD,
also expressly requesting a meeting or contacts, in order to obtain and adopt
criteria and recommendations that the AEPD would have wanted to transfer in this regard;
initial steps that did not work despite the insistence of CAIXABANK,
S.A.. Thus, the Caixabank Group adopted a diligent and preventive attitude, and the
effect has been that the AEPD has adopted an exclusively punitive attitude with the
Caixabank Group. Where then is the function that the AEPD must assume,
according to the provisions of article 57.1.d of the RGPD, to "promote awareness of
those responsible and in charge of the treatment about the obligations that
incumbent”.

5. When the Director of the AEPD, in interviews granted to the media
communication at the beginning of 2020, advanced the result of files
sanctioning just started, violated the principle of presumption of innocence
(an issue on which we will go into depth later), but it was also missing
to the due discretion that an authority must maintain in relation to this type of
matters, and even beyond, it also forgot the provisions of article 54.2 of the RGPD,
which provides that: “The member or members and the staff of each supervisory authority
shall be subject, in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the States
members, to the duty of professional secrecy, both during their mandate and after
of the same, in relation to the confidential information of which they have had
knowledge in the performance of their duties or the exercise of their powers. ”; So,
To give three examples, we have the following interviews and public interventions
of the Director of the AEPD, Ilma. Ms. Mar España Martí:

- On January 13, 2020, in an interview in "Five days" of El País, it is used as
holder of the same one of the affirmations of the Director of the AEPD: "There
files to large companies that can end in very high penalties”
https://cincodias.elpais.com/cincodias/2020/01/10/legal/1578667140_483443.html

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/133

 

 

 

 

 

 

the

from

for

infringe

- On February 9, 2020, in another interview in "La Voz de Galicia", it is used again
as holder of one of the declarations of the Board of the AEPD; in this case
with full conviction that it will be sanctioned: “There will be very
important
data"
https://www.lavozdegalicia.es/noticia/sociedad/2020/02/08/marespana-habra-
sanctions-important-violate-
data protection/00031581176394099239215.htm

protection

 
- On March 13, 2020, in the chronicle of the magazine "El Derecho.com" (from the editorial
legal Lefebvre), on the XII Privacy Forum, organized by ISMS Forum,
together with the Data Privacy Institute (DPI), held on March 3, 2020 at the
CaixaForum Madrid Main Auditorium, a part of the intervention of the
Director of the AEPD in the following terms, which have already provided more details
about these planned sanctions: “We already have two or three procedures
high-impact sanctions that are going to have a lot of media coverage in
relation to the financial sector, will be the first important quantitative fines
by the Agency."

In relation to the last referenced manifestation, it is evident that the repercussion
media is the main result sought by these sanctioning procedures to
referred to, despite still being at that time in phases of
very initial processing, an impact derived from the fact that they were going to suppose some
"significant quantitative fines", not so much for the result of protection of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data and data subjects, which is not
to take a backseat, it just seems to have no relevance at all
in those sanctioning procedures; at least that conclusion can be drawn from
expressed by the Director of the AEPD, since there does not seem to be a general interest in
protect, or damages to be remedied, or legal rights to be preserved.
Everything remains in the objective of achieving: “a lot of media coverage”.

It should be remembered that the request for information addressed to CPC took place
on February 6, 2020 and the agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings to
CAIXABANK, S.A. on January 21, 2020. As has been amply stated
evidence, already at that very moment, the Director of the AEPD had the capacity to
foresee that there would be very important sanctions; previously, just a month before, the
December 2, 2019, the AEPD had agreed to start the procedure
sanctioning the entity BBVA, which was resolved with the imposition of a total fine
five million euros; that is to say, in less than 3 months actions were initiated in
relation to financial entities and it was already known that all of them would result in
large administrative fines, some fines with amounts not imposed until the
moment, everything and that the RGPD and its sanctioning regime was already applicable from the
May 25, 2018.

Regarding the already mentioned violation of the fundamental right to the presumption of
innocence, recognized by article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, the
Constitutional Court has projected the content of this fundamental right in the
sanctioning administrative procedures. To this effect, SSTC 129 and 131,
both of June 30, establish: "(...) the presumption of innocence governs without
exceptions in the sanctioning system and must be respected in the imposition

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/133

of any sanctions, whether criminal or administrative (...), since the exercise
of ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned by article 24.2
of the Constitution to the game of evidence and to a contradictory procedure in which
their own positions can be defended.”

This principle is also expressly included for the
sanctioning administrative procedures in article 53.2.b) of the LPACAP.

The presumption of innocence has a double essential meaning; on the one hand, it is a
rule of judgment and, on the other, constitutes a rule of treatment, that is, in relation
with the treatment that should be given to the accused during the processing of the procedure
sanctioning In this sense, constitutional jurisprudence obliges us to consider
innocent the accused and to treat him as such during the processing of the entire
procedure, both inside and outside of it, which means that you cannot
punish him before his guilt is proven. Thus, the STC 25/2003, of 10
February, stresses that "the presumption of innocence, in addition to constituting a principle or
an informative criterion of the criminal procedural system is, above all, a right
by virtue of which a person accused of an offense cannot be
considered guilty until so declared in a conviction.

Ad extra, the presumption of innocence as a rule of treatment implies that the
Administration cannot harm the accused in other areas, precisely because
being processed a sanctioning procedure against him or, in general, for being
suspected of having committed an administrative offence.
In the present case, we find ourselves before the beginning of a sanctioning procedure,
preceded by a request for prior information dated February 6, 2020. Well,
well, before the expiration of the mandatory administrative term to respond to
said requirement, specifically, on March 3, in an act of ISMS Forum
held in Madrid, as has already been described in detail above, the
Director of the AEPD, highest authority of the institution, and competent person for
resolve this file, publicly pointed out the existence of two or three
high-impact sanctioning procedures that were going to have a great impact
media in relation to the financial sector.

In accordance with articles 24.2, 103. 1 and 3 CE –and art. 6.1 of the European Convention
of Human Rights-, any action of the Public Administration must
obey the principles of objectivity and impartiality; however, in this case, without
have still assessed the response to the request for information, since this
was presented on June 2, 2020 (almost three months after the aforementioned
declarations of the Director), the person who has to resolve, and who, in addition,
as the highest authority, inspectors and instructors are hierarchically dependent on the
AEPD, far from keeping any semblance of justice, decided (publicly) that
there would be a sanction, and this without only having agreed to initiate the procedure
sanctioning

It should be noted that the Director of the AEPD is not the only one who dictates the resolutions
but, in accordance with article 12.2 i) of the Organic Statute of the AEPD (RD
428/1993 of March 26), one of its functions is to "Start, promote the
instruction and resolve sanctioning files referring to those responsible for
private files. And it should also be noted that the AEPD is the only one of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/133

so-called independent administrations that do not have as the highest governing body
resolution of files to a collegiate body but to a single person. Therefore,
there is no debate in the assertion that it is his will alone that informs the impulse
instructor and the one that will determine the final resolution of the administrative file. Well
well, if the person who is going to solve this sanctioning procedure by himself, the
person who has been promoting your instruction, in short, the highest authority
of the institution, it was clear to me, before hearing what CPC had to say about it,
that he was going to sanction him, and he was so clear that he would say it in a public act, difficult
is to understand that there has not been a flagrant violation of the right
fundamental to the presumption of innocence (article 24.2 of the Constitution). This in
definitively, it should lead to the immediate annulment of the administrative actions.

Likewise, the resolutions of sanctioning procedures of this
Agency in which the person responsible for the treatment is sanctioned for infringing the
article 6 RGPD (vid. PPSS 00235/2019, 00182/2019, 00415/2019) and that, taking into account
account the status of a large company and volume of business, among others, not even remotely
sanctions reach the economic level of the sanction proposal contained in the
this Home Agreement, since they are sanctions that have ranged between
€60,000 and €120,000.

In this sense, it is not understood what this Agency is based on to modulate the
economic sanctions since the Initiation Agreement neither motivates nor explains
minimally the application of the graduation criteria of the sanction, nor the fact of
deviate from them in the proposed sanction, in the case of very
similar.

In line with the previous point, in a subsidiary manner, and in the unlikely event that
this Agency resolved that it must sanction CPC for the infractions imputed and
does not consider these allegations, this representation understands that they would result
application of the following criteria for assessing the sanctions established in the
article 83.2 RGPD (as mitigating factors): (a) Any measure taken by the
responsible or in charge of the treatment to alleviate the damages suffered by
the interested parties (art. 83.2.c) RGPD): CPC has made an important effort during
recent years – and especially since the entry into application of the RGPD and the merger
made on July 11, 2019 – to provide its clients with the information
regarding the treatment of your personal data in an adequate way. The
The clearest example of this initiative is the different versions of the
privacy policies and clauses, a fact that reaffirms the proactivity and spirit of
continuous improvement of CPC. This behavior demonstrates a clear exercise of
transparency and loyalty, as well as proactive and diligent activity on the part of CPC
in relation to compliance with data protection regulations, in addition to
demonstrate the desire of CPC to repair potential errors, if any, when
obtain the consent of the interested parties.

The degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement (art. 83.2.f) RGPD):

CPC has shown, at all times, its willingness to collaborate with the Agency in order to
to improve those aspects of the treatments that are susceptible to improvement.
As has been revealed in this Letter, CPC has launched

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/133

a series of measures aimed at improving the collection of consents.
Thus, these circumstances must be assessed by the Agency as extenuating circumstances. fits
remember that both CPC and its data protection delegate have been, throughout
time, available to cooperate and have been proactive in responding to
any Agency requirements.

The degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement (art. 83.2.f) RGPD):
CPC has shown, at all times, its willingness to collaborate with the Agency in order to
to improve those aspects of the treatments that are susceptible to improvement.
As has been revealed in this Letter, CPC has launched
a series of measures aimed at improving the collection of consents.
Thus, these circumstances must be assessed by the Agency as extenuating circumstances. fits
remember that both CPC and its data protection delegate have been, throughout
time, available to cooperate and have been proactive in responding to
any Agency requirements.

Omitting the aforementioned criteria, the Start Agreement refers, without
justification or motivation, to the following criteria in relation to each
imputed infraction, limiting itself to its simple enumeration, without even indicating its
application as an aggravating or mitigating circumstance, which generates defenselessness since it does not
we are able to understand the intention of the AEPD (and we only have, given the
disproportionate proposed sanctions interpreted as aggravating).

 Next, we refer to those criteria that are most notoriously far from
reality:

(a) The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (art. 83.2.a) RGPD): It results
surprising that the AEPD proposes the imposition on CPC of a fine of such an amount
raised for issues that are not particularly serious:

 — This is not a case in which CPC has radically dispensed with the
obligations related to obtaining consent, notwithstanding that the
AEPD considers that certain issues should be corrected, which could
imply improvements to the way in which consents are collected.

— Special categories of data are not processed (art. 9 RGPD and 9 LOPDGDD).

— To date, the sanctions imposed for violation of article 6 GDPR have not
reached the economic level proposed in this Start Agreement (with the
exception of the sanction imposed on the entity BBVA, already referenced).

— There is only one claim from a CPC client (claim, remember,
inadmissible for processing)

That said, even in the event that the Agency appreciates hypothetical
Indications of the commission of an infringement of the regulations on data protection
personal, it must be taken into account that no damage or harm has been caused
to CPC clients.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/133

The processing of personal data, in accordance with the operation explained with the
maximum level of detail in the response to the request for information, are the
necessary for the development of the CPC's own activity, as well as for the
corresponding purposes when the basis of legitimacy of the treatment is the
consent freely granted by the interested party, and are carried out in accordance with the
requirements demanded by the applicable regulations on data protection and the
sector regulations.

It should be noted the importance that the RGPD first and the LOPDGDD later have
granted to the fact that the conduct of the data controller gives rise to a
serious and effective damage to the rights of those affected. In the present case
We understand that such damage has not occurred and that, therefore, it is neither serious nor
cash.

The former Article 29 Working Party, in its Guidelines on the Application and
setting of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 201 6/679 (WP 253,
adopted on October 3, 2017), ratified by the European Committee for the Protection
of Data (hereinafter, “CEPD”), refers to this issue in the following terms:
“If the interested parties have suffered damages, the level of
the same. The processing of personal data may generate risks for
individual rights and freedoms, as stated in recital 75:
«The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to the processing of data that could cause
physical, material or non-material damages, particularly in cases where
that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social damage; in the
cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights and freedoms or are
prevent exercising control over your personal data; In cases where the data
treated personalities reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion
or philosophical beliefs, militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data,
data relating to health or data on sexual life, or convictions and offenses
criminal or related security measures; In cases where they are evaluated
personal aspects, in particular the analysis or prediction of aspects related to the
performance at work, economic situation, health, preferences or interests
personal, reliability or behavior, situation or movements, in order to create or
use personal profiles; in the cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, in particular children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested”. If damages have been suffered or are likely to be suffered due to
to the infraction of the Regulation, the control authority must take this into account when
when selecting the corrective measure, even if the supervisory authority lacks
powers to grant specific compensation for damages
suffered”.

Well, as we say, in the present case no damage has been proven
any for the rights of those affected, nor has the sole claimant been able to prove
said damages, having been inadmissible his claim by the Agency. Is
This circumstance must be taken into account when determining the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/133

hypothetical infraction and the sanction that, if applicable, could be imposed. It
above is also accredited by the fact that there have been no other
complaints or legal actions for these facts. That is, no damage has been done.
any that could be the subject of an action before the jurisdictional bodies
competent since CPC has acted, at all times, in full compliance with the
regulations on personal data protection.

(b) The intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction.

There is no intentional conduct in relation to the violation of the regulations
protection of personal data. CPC has acted diligently,
establishing clear procedures in relation to the information released
disposition of the clients and the procedures for obtaining consents from
the same. CPC has a desire for continuous improvement and transparency, a fact that is reflected
in the evolution of the documents and in the improvement of the information contained in the
themselves.

(c) The high linkage of CPC activity with the performance of treatment of
personal information.

CPC is a subsidiary of the CaixaBank Group and, as a financial credit institution,
its activity is consumer finance and means of payment; In no case, your
main activity is the processing of personal data of its most
beyond what is necessary for the development of that main activity, nor
nor does it benefit economically from the processing of the personal data of its
customers.

(d) High volume of data and processing that constitutes the object of the file.
The volume of data corresponds to the essential to be able to carry out
normality the activity of CPC and, in no case, the presumed infraction affects
all personal data processing carried out by CPC, nor is it
uses all the information related to customers.

6. Concurs in the Home Agreement a breach of the principle of legitimate expectations in
administrative action; As already described in these pleadings, on 29
November 2018, the AEPD transferred the claim and made a request for
information (Ref. E/09305/2018) to the Data Protection Officer as a result of a
complaint filed by D. A.A.A.. Based on the information provided by CPC and
In response to the reasons stated, the AEPD, on February 7, 2019, agreed
the inadmissibility of the submitted claim for processing, a fact that generated on CPC the
legitimate confidence of its performance in accordance with the law; months later they start
previous investigative actions, allegedly based on the Complaint,
resulting in the Home Agreement.

We have already asked ourselves before: how is it possible to start a
previous investigative actions based on a claim that has not been
admitted for processing by the AEPD itself?

  This action can only be incardinated in a breach of trust
legitimate, one of the essential principles of administrative action. Saying

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/133

principle, of jurisprudential construction first by the CJEU and then by the Court
Supreme, and later recognized in article 3 of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, is intimately interrelated
with the principle of good faith and legal certainty and implies that "the public authority
cannot take measures that are contrary to a reasonable hope
induced on the stability in the decisions of the former, and based on which
individuals have adopted certain decisions” (STS 173/2020).

On the other hand, there is permissiveness with respect to other subjects as a reference. In this
In this sense, the AEPD has made public other actions, of a preventive nature, that
provide a series of recommendations to other sectors of activity, in relation to
the relevant legal basis to be applied in terms of profiling
commercial; recommendations that CPC applies in an equivalent manner in the
treatment settings.

As we say, these recommendations for other sectors create a confidence
legitimate, reinforced by the conduct of the AEPD itself by refraining from sanctioning
acts of an identical nature to those attributed to CPC, which would completely undermine the
enforceable requirement of guilt "by legitimate and invincible belief of being acting
lawfully” (Sic. SAN of March 30, 1999). 50. In this sense too, the
doctrine derived from the SAN of October 19, 2006 concludes that "(...) The relationship
of those managed with the Administration must be based on legitimate expectations,
trust that can only be generated when there is predictability and security in the
Administration action. (...) and no reproach can be made for the
Administration -not even simple non-observance- to those who adjusted their actions to
its guidelines - fully "observed" them.

7. There is also an artificial and unlawful extension of the previous actions;
As has been repeatedly described, the AEPD, in its own words, initiates a
sanctioning procedure in view of a claim inadmissible for processing. The
previous investigative actions agreed by the AEPD supplanted the activity
instructor, having been prolonged until almost their expiration date.
 
The Initiation Agreement rests, practically in its entirety, on elements of charge
collected during the preliminary actions phase.

The previous investigation actions constitute an enabling mechanism of the
performance of the Administration conferred on it "in order to achieve a better
determination of the facts and circumstances that justify the processing of the
procedure" (article 67 of Organic Law 3/2018) or "in order to know the
circumstances of the specific case and the advisability or not of initiating the procedure"
(Article 55 LPACAP).

The initiation of preliminary investigation actions has a very limited purpose:
bring together an indicative base of elements of judgment (not evidence) that allow
have a minimum certainty of the occurrence of the act, its typicity and the person
responsible, and with it, of the appropriateness of initiating a sanctioning procedure
about himself.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/133

From the moment in which the Administration is certain of the commission of the
facts and the identity of the person responsible, even if it is not fully accredited, the
itself is obliged, for the sake of due respect for the Constitution and the
guarantees enshrined therein, to immediately initiate the appropriate procedure
sanctioning

In this sense, the Supreme Court has revealed, among others in the
Judgment of December 26, 2007, that the preliminary investigation actions only
will be worthy of such consideration (and therefore, of the legal regime applicable to
the same) "to the extent that those preliminary or preparatory proceedings serve the
purpose that really justifies them, that is, to gather the data and initial indications that serve
to judge on the pertinence of giving way to the sanctioning file, and it is not
denature by becoming a surreptitious alternative to the latter".

Similarly, the Judgment of the Supreme Court of June 9, 2006, has
highlighted the need to safeguard the constitutional guarantees of the administered
in cases such as the one at hand: "As a result of this rule, prior information
is not mandatory, having declared this Chamber in a judgment of November 6,
2000 that "if there is sufficient data to initiate the file, the information
reserved should not be practiced, because it is unnecessary and because the rights
fundamental defense of art. 24.2 of the C.E. They demand that the
granting of the condition of imputed or filed, thus avoiding the risk of
use the delay to conduct interrogations in which the interrogated person would be
in a disadvantaged situation.
It is especially striking in this case, the time elapsed between the
inadmissibility of processing the claim and the requirement of prior information, this
is, more than a year; or the extension of the period of previous actions of
investigation for a period of 14 months, yes, taking into account the already
mentioned incidence of the pandemic.

The Supreme Court itself, in its Judgment of May 6, 2015, establishes the following: "(...) this
Chamber has declared that this period prior to the initiation agreement «(...) must be
necessarily brief and not conceal a contrived way of carrying out acts of investigation
and mask and reduce the duration of the subsequent file itself" (judgment of 6
May 2015, appeal 3438/2012, F.J 2º".

In addition, during this period there has been a parallel procedure
sanctioning against CAIXABANK S.A. (matrix of the group to which CPC belongs), where
Coincidentally, an infringement of article 6 RGPD is also imputed, among others, in
relation to the same treatment. Thus, taking into account the inadmissibility for processing of the
claim, the time elapsed until giving rise to the preliminary actions and the
sanctioning procedure against the parent company of CPC, it follows that both the
previous actions such as the agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings subject to
these allegations (Sanctioning Procedure) are the result of the information
obtained in another administrative procedure.

B. Regarding the alleged infringement.

The consent of the interested parties is specific and duly informed. At
Start Agreement the AEPD erroneously assesses that the consent collected

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/133

by CPC for profiling purposes is not specific since the body
administrative interprets that it does not meet the requirement of separation of the purposes and
consequent provision of consent for each of them, to which is added
the assessment that the consent given is not informed either.

Thus, due to the absence of the requirements related to the provision of consent
specific and informed, presumably this would not be valid, implying, therefore,
that the treatments based on the consent of the interested party would lack
legitimation for an alleged breach of the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD.
The foregoing is justified in the Start Agreement, based on five factors of the operation
of CPC that, according to the AEPD, would not be aligned with the provisions of the
applicable regulations regarding the protection of personal data.

i. There is an alleged extension of the purposes of the treatment: it is affirmed by the
AEPD that, when informing about the treatments for the "offer and design of products
and services adjusted to the client's profile”, purposes such as:

 — Adjust recovery measures on defaults and related incidents
of the contracted products and services;

— Analyze possible economic interdependencies in the study of offers of
services, risk requests and product contracting;

— Assess the services received;

— Design new products or services, or improve the design and usability of
the existing ones, as well as define or improve the experiences of the users in their
relationship with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank.

ii. The data is communicated to the companies of the Group without a legal basis: the
consent is requested for the CaixaBank Group, which according to the AEPD constitutes
a communication of data to the companies of the Group, which in turn would constitute a
specific purpose in itself that would require, therefore, a manifestation of
will of the interested party for which he consents that it can be carried out.

iii. The interested party cannot know the data that will be processed for profiling:
According to the AEPD, the information provided to the interested party includes data that is not
are going to be processed, and yet you are allegedly not informed of the
treatment of other data that will be the object of the same, such as the consultation of files
of solvency and the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain or the
called "Risk Score".

IV. Data contained in solvency files are processed for profiling purposes for the purposes of
credit rating without legal basis of the treatment.

v. The interested party is not informed about the profiling operation related to the “Risk
Score”: according to the AEPD, the interested party is not informed about this new operation of
profiled, nor on the legal basis that allows its realization, nor on the
data used to carry it out.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/133

It is stated that each of the above statements does not correspond to the
reality alleging that:

i. There is no extension of the purposes of the treatment.

The AEPD argues that the requests for
consent since, when informing about the analysis and study treatments
of data for commercial purposes, including treatments that are not compatible with said
purpose and, therefore, require a specific consent request.

The truth is that this confusion is due to a slight error in the informative clause, in the
that the error was made (remedied in the current CPC Privacy Policy,
in turn aligned with that of CAIXABANK, S.A.), to list treatment operations
that are not made based on the consent obtained for profiling; specific:

- Carry out the follow-up of the contracted products and services: treatment
necessary for the execution of the contractual relationship with the interested party;

- Adjust recovery measures on non-payments and incidents derived from
the contracted products and services: treatment necessary for the execution
of the contractual relationship with the interested party;

- Associate your data with that of other clients or companies with which you have
some type of link, both family or social, as well as due to their property relationship
and administration, in order to analyze possible interdependencies
in the study of service offers, risk requests and
contracting of products: treatment necessary for the execution of the
contractual relationship with the interested party. In addition, it is a necessary treatment
to comply with the obligations established in Law 10/2014, of 26
June, of Management, Supervision and Solvency of Credit Institutions, in the
Law 44/2002, on Financial System Reform Measures, as well as for the
compliance with the other obligations and principles of the regulations on
responsible lending;

- Carry out studies and automatic controls of fraud, defaults and incidents
derived from the contracted products and services: Treatment carried out by
be necessary for the satisfaction of the legitimate interest of CPC to prevent fraud
that suppose economic or reputational losses;

- Carry out satisfaction surveys by telephone or electronically
in order to assess the services received: Necessary treatment for the
execution of the contractual relationship with the interested party;

- Design new products or services or improve the design and usability of the
existing, as well as define or improve the experiences of users in their
relationship with CPC and the companies of the CaixaBank Group: It is a treatment that
It is not done with personal data but by analyzing statistics and data
added after anonymization processes.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/133

This incident, after being detected, has been corrected by the CaixaBank Group and, by
therefore, also by CPC, through the elaboration of a new Privacy Policy
in which the treatments carried out are correctly and precisely detailed
for analysis and study for commercial purposes.

However, despite CPC acknowledging the aforementioned circumstances, and
Regardless of whether it has been corrected, this does not have as
consequence that consents are being collected for different purposes
under a single and unifying question, a fact that could effectively affect the
principle of specificity of consent.

Consent is only requested for the purpose of studying products or
services that could be adjusted to the specific commercial or credit profile or situation
of customers to send them commercial offers tailored to their needs and
preferences.

The fact that other additional purposes have been included when reporting on the
above purpose does not imply that different purposes are authorized en bloc: in the
In the event that the interested party gives his consent for profiling, only
will process your data for the initial purpose based on the consent given. The rest
of the purposes will be carried out only in the event that the requirements are met
necessary so that the listed legal bases converge in each case
previously.

ii. The data is not communicated to the companies of the CaixaBank Group without a legal basis

In the Home Agreement it is indicated that the fact of requesting the consents for the
CaixaBank Group constitutes a communication of data to the companies of the Group.
Said alleged communication of data to the companies of the Group would constitute a
specific purpose in itself that would require, therefore, according to the AEPD, a
expression of will of the interested party by which he consents that he can take
finished.

However, it should be noted that no data communication takes place
since there is a system of co-responsibility between the companies of the Group
CaixaBank, due to the existence of an agreement to jointly determine the objectives and
means of treatment object of the Home Agreement, as provided in article 26
of the GDPR.

As specified by the CEPD, in its "Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of
controller and processor in the GDPR” (adopted on September 2, 2020), the
assessment of co-responsibility should be based on a factual analysis, rather than
formal, on the influence in the determination of the purposes and means of the treatment;
for example, co-responsibility may take the form of a decision made by
two or more entities, or it may be the result of converging decisions of two or more entities.
more entities in terms of essential ends and means.
 Therefore, the
co-responsibility is sustained on the basis of decisions adopted by the different
entities that want to act as co-controllers of the treatment; that is, it depends
of their willingness to act in a co-responsible manner, without prejudice to the fact that, in cases

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/133

concrete, a norm can also expressly establish that
co-responsibility

The situation of co-responsibility based on converging decisions is derived from the
jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union, so that it can be
consider that decisions converge in ends and means if they complement each other
yes and they are necessary for the treatment to take place, so that a criterion
important to identify converging decisions in this context is whether the
treatment as a whole would not be possible without the participation of entities
co-responsible.

Likewise, the CEPD points out that the existence of co-responsibility does not imply
necessarily equal responsibility of the different operators involved in the
processing of personal data; on the contrary, the CJEU has clarified that those
Operators may be involved at different stages of treatment and with
different degree of intervention, so that the level of responsibility of each
of them must be evaluated taking into account all the relevant aspects and
circumstances of the particular case.

Therefore, there is no communication of data between the companies of the Group
but a direct collection of the same by companies in the field of
co-responsibility

The consents object of the Home Agreement are managed within the framework of the
mentioned co-responsibility. This is because it would not be operational for
entities of the Group, nor easy to manage for the interested parties themselves, manage
separately the consents for those treatments that are carried out
jointly in the context of the activities of the CaixaBank Group for a
same purpose and with the same means, in relation to data of which the entities of the
Group are co-responsible.

However, the mentioned co-responsibility does not only respond to doing more
operationalize the management of consents and to facilitate the management and
understanding of the treatments carried out based on your consent but also
to regulatory needs.

In this sense, a large part of the entities of the CaixaBank Group, including
CPC, special diligence is required of them when granting an operation of
active; diligence that translates into the duty to carry out an analysis in
depth of the client's ability to borrow, as well as to meet
the obligations derived from the contracting of its products. These obligations are
configured in the regulations on transparency of operations and protection of
clientele (see articles 29.1 and 14 of Law 2/2011, of March 4, on Economy
Sustainable. and Law 16/2011, of June 24, on consumer credit contracts,
respectively).

Additionally, the aforementioned regulations require taking into account
specific on risk management and internal control contained in the legislation
in force on prudential regulation of credit institutions. The regulations on
prudential regulation of credit institutions, or regulations on credit requirements

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/133

solvency, has been implemented and adapted to the Union legal system
European through the following standards:

- EU Regulation No. 575/2013, of June 26, 2013, on the requirements
Prudential solvency and risk requirements of credit institutions and insurance companies
investment;

- Directive 2013/36/EU, of June 26, 2013, regarding access to the activity of
credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and
investment companies, transposed into the Spanish legal system by Law 10/2014 and
Royal Decree 84/2015.

In accordance with the regulations listed, the entities and groups that can be consolidated
credit institutions (1) must carry out effective risk control, both
at an individual level as an aggregate (2), a fact that implies that the Consolidated Group
CaixaBank must carry out risk management in the joint or global scope of the
mentioned group. This management includes the admission of risks and, consequently, the
study of the solvency and the capacity of return of the applicant of an operation of
active.

(1) Circular 4/2017, of November 27, of the Bank of Spain, to entities of
credit, on rules of public and reserved information and models of statements
financial, defines the nature and content of the consolidatable groups of entities
of credit:

Consolidable groups of credit institutions: These are those groups that have to
comply with prudential requirements, on a consolidated or sub-consolidated basis,
established in Regulation (EU) 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of June 26, 2013 […].

(2) Article 40.1 of Law 10/2014 establishes the subjective scope of application of the
solvency regulations, this being applicable to:

a) To credit institutions

b) Consolidable groups and subgroups of credit institutions

It should also be mentioned that the European Central Bank, in the exercise of its
supervisory powers, carried out the inspection identified as OSI-2017-1-
ESCAX-3084, in which he identified as a deficient aspect in relation to the
requirements of the Prudential and Solvency Regulations applicable to the Group
Consolidated CaixaBank, the non-integration of all the databases of the
entities of the Consolidated Group.

Due to the above, co-responsibility does not only imply benefits
operations for the Group but is necessary for the adequate fulfillment of the
legal obligations of CPC and the rest of the entities of the Consolidated Group
CaixaBank. This necessarily implies that said co-responsibility will have
implications not only in those treatments carried out strictly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/133

compliance with mandatory legal obligations but also some carried out in
based on the consent of the interested parties.

This would be the case of data analysis and study processing for the purpose of
commercial. It is necessary to take into account the type of products marketed by
the CaixaBank Group and, specifically, by CPC. As reported in the reply to
Request for information prior to the Start Agreement, CPC, as long as
financial credit establishment, offers and sells loans. Therefore, and
although the treatment related to commercial profiling is carried out on the basis of the
consent of the interested party, it must be carried out in compliance with the legal obligations
applicable in each case.

In other words, considering that personalized loan offers
are binding for CPC (in the sense that, if the client accepts the offer, the
conditions of the product will be those previously offered), when performing them CPC must
also comply with prudential and solvency regulations, even when the treatment
It is carried out based on the consent of the interested party.

It is for the foregoing that the CaixaBank Group decided to manage
centralization of consents for commercial purposes, including the treatment
data analysis and study; so the fact that consent is requested
for the CaixaBank Group does not constitute a communication of data to the companies of the
Group, but it is a consequence of co-responsibility in the terms set forth
in the previous paragraphs

iii. The duty to inform the interested parties in relation to
with the data processed for profiling

In the Home Agreement it is considered that the interested party cannot know the data that
are going to be treated for the profiling since among the information that is provided is
include data that will not be subject to such treatment and, however, always
according to the AEPD, you are not informed of the processing of other data that will be subject to the
same.

Based on the foregoing, and according to the criteria of the AEPD, it is concluded that the
consent given for profiling purposes is not duly
reported, so this would not be valid.

In this regard, it is necessary to take into account two factors: first, the
fact that the categories of data subject to treatment are not among the
minimum information described in article 13 of the RGPD so that the consent
be informed; secondly, and despite not being mandatory to report it, the
information provided does allow interested parties to know the data that will be
treat for profiling. Both will be further developed below.
listed factors.

As regards the obligation to inform about the type of data subject to
treatment, it should be noted that neither article 13 RGPD, nor the corresponding
Article 11 of the LOPDGDD, require the interested parties to be provided with this information

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/133

compulsory form; it is required under article 14 RGPD when the data is not
obtained directly from the interested party, but this is not the case analyzed by the AEPD.

Additionally, in the GDPR itself, by establishing in its recital 42 the
information that the interested party must know so that the consent is
informed, it is determined that at least you must know the identity of the
responsible for the treatment and the purposes of the treatment for which they are intended
Personal information.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, CPC decided to provide interested parties with information
additional information regarding the processing of your personal data. In this way, in addition to
the minimum information established by article 13 RGPD, the
categories of personal data subject to treatment for the purpose of analysis and
data study.

Regarding said information provided, the AEPD considers that it is insufficient,
erroneously stating that CPC does not report the query to solvency files and
to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain or the “Risk Score”. Is not
It is true that such uses of the data are not reported, and we understand that this
statement is due to the lack of analysis of the information provided in its
group to those interested.

The AEPD limits the information provided to the interested parties in relation to the
personal data object of treatment to the following:

The data that will be processed for the purposes of (i) data analysis and study, and (ii)
for the commercial offer of products and services will be:

a) All those facilitated in the establishment or maintenance of relationships
commercial or business.

b) All those generated in the contracting and operations of products and services
with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, with the companies of the CaixaBank Group or with
third parties, such as account or card movements, receipt details
direct debits, payroll direct debits, claims arising from insurance policies,
claims etc

c) All those that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or the companies of the Group
CaixaBank obtain from the provision of services to third parties, when the service has
as recipient to the Holder, such as the management of transfers or receipts.

d) Whether or not you are a CaixaBank shareholder, as recorded in the records of
this, or of the entities that, in accordance with the regulations of the market of
securities must keep records of the securities represented by means of
book entries.

e) Those obtained from the social networks that the Holder authorizes to consult.

f) Those obtained from third parties as a result of requests for aggregation of
data requested by the Owner.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/133

g) Those obtained from the Holder's navigation through the web service of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and other websites of this and/or of the companies of the Group
CaixaBank or CaixaBank Payments & Consumer mobile phone application and/or
the companies of the CaixaBank Group, in which it operates, duly identified. These
Data may include information related to geolocation.

h) Those obtained from chats, walls, videoconferences or any other means of
communication established between the parties.

The Holder's data may be supplemented and enriched by data obtained
of companies providing commercial information, by data obtained from sources
as well as by statistical, socioeconomic data (hereinafter, "Information
Additional"), always verifying that they meet the requirements established in
current regulations on data protection.

The above excerpt, transcribed in the Start Agreement, is part of the conditioned
that is provided to the interested party in the framework of contracting a product and in
which is informed of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD. However, the AEPD,
evaluate the information provided to the interested parties regarding the typology of
data object of treatment, has not taken into account the rest of the general conditioning.

Specifically, the transcribed fragment corresponds to point 26.4. (ii) of the
general conditioning. In this sense, it is indicated as a type of data processed to
the purpose of analysis and study of data, "All those provided in the establishment or
maintenance of commercial or business relations” (underlined fragment in the
transcript of the excerpt herein).

It could only be considered that not enough information is provided regarding
to the categories of personal data subject to processing if provided
exclusively this fragment of text to those interested, but more is added
information.

In section 26.3 of the general conditions (prior to 26.4.ii transcribed in the Agreement
of Start) specifies in greater detail what data will be processed for the establishment
or maintenance of commercial relations:

“Payments & Consumer and, where applicable, the companies of the CaixaBank Group, is
obliged by different regulations and agreements to carry out certain data processing
data of the people with whom it maintains Business Relations, as indicated
in the following sections of this clause (hereinafter, “Treatments with
Regulatory Purposes”). These treatments are necessary for the establishment
and maintenance of Business Relations with CaixaBank Payments &
Consumer and/or with the companies of the CaixaBank Group, and the opposition of the Holder to the
themselves would necessarily entail the cessation (or non-establishment, as the case may be) of
these relationships. In any case, Processing for Regulatory Purposes is
limited exclusively to the stated purpose, without prejudice to other purposes or
uses that the Holder authorizes according to the provisions of clause 26.4. of the present
document"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/133

Thus, in the transcribed fragment it is indicated that, due to the need to comply with
specific regulations applicable to CPCs, the establishment and maintenance of
commercial relationships with CPC will require specific data processing that is
will specify later. In addition, in the same fragment it is indicated that said
Processing will be limited to regulatory purposes, without prejudice to the fact that, in the case
that the interested party authorizes it, they can also be used for other purposes.

Regarding the categories of data that according to the AEPD are not included in the
information provided to data subjects in relation to the categories of data
object of treatment, these are effectively included in points 26.3.3 and 26.3.4
of the general conditioning.

In this way, point 26.3.3 informs about the query to files of
credit information (among which are those necessary to obtain the “Risk
Score”, as will be explained later):

26.3.3 Communication with credit information systems.

The Account Holder is informed that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, in the study of the
establishment of Commercial Relations, you can consult information in
credit information systems. Likewise, in the event of non-payment of any of the
obligations derived from the Commercial Relations, the data related to the non-payment
may be communicated to these systems.

And, in point 26.3.4, there is information about the query to the Information Center of
Bank of Spain risks:

26.3.4. Communication of data to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of
Spain

The Holder of the right is informed that he assists CaixaBank Payments & Consumer to
Obtain reports from the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain (CIR).
about the risks that could be registered in the study of the establishment of
Business relationships. […]

Therefore, it is not true that, as the AEPD considers, information is not provided
enough about the data to be processed for profiling. Information
provided to data subjects should be analyzed as a whole and not just
fragments of it.

IV. It is not true that data contained in solvency files are processed for purposes of
profiling for credit rating purposes without legal basis for processing

In the Home Agreement, the provisions of the third section of article 20 are used
of the LOPDGDD to determine that the treatment carried out by CPC of data
contained in solvency files for profiling purposes for qualification purposes
credit is carried out without a legal basis for the treatment.

This party understands that the reference to the third section of the aforementioned article is
due to an error since this refers to the treatment carried out by the entity

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/133

to maintain the credit information system, and as was specified in the
response to the request for information dated June 2, 2020 between the
activities carried out by CPC system maintenance is not found
of credit information.

Due to the foregoing, the reference to the third section of article 20 of the LOPDGDD does not
would be appropriate in the present case.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, this part can answer the possible question
the AEPD can do about what is the legitimizing basis for processing data
contained in solvency files for profiling purposes for qualification purposes
credit.

In this sense, as stated in the response to the request for information
Prior to the Start Agreement, CPC can carry out treatments focused on analyzing the
repayment capacity or risk of non-payment of the interested party based on two bases
legal conditions of the treatment, according to the factual assumption in question:

- Exclusively the fulfillment of legal obligations applicable to CPC: It would be the
case (i) of the analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment of a
interested in your request for a product, and (ii) the analysis of the capacity of
repayment or risk of non-payment in credit risk management granted to customers.
In these cases, CPC makes an assessment of the ability to return or
solvency of the interested party in compliance with the Prudential and Solvency Regulations and
of Responsible Lending, as stated in the response to the Requirement for
information and in this Letter.

- Consent of the interested party: This would be the case of the treatments carried out on the basis
to the consent of the interested party for the analysis and study of data with the purpose
commercial. The purpose of these treatments is to offer the interested parties
and services adjusted to your needs (including the possible assignment of limits
of pre-granted credit), selecting the target audience before carrying out a
certain business impact.

However, it is necessary to take into account, as previously stated in the
this writing, the nature of the products and services marketed by CPC,
as well as the regulatory implications that this entails.

The fact that certain treatments are carried out based on the consent of the
interested party does not exclude that CPC must comply with the legal obligations associated with
these treatments. In the case of preparing commercial offers adapted to the
profile of the interested parties CPC must comply with the legal obligations established
in the Prudential and Solvency and Responsible Lending Regulations given that the
Products marketed are credit accounts and loans.

In this way and taking into account that in the realization of a personalized offer
to a client it is binding for CPC (in the sense that, if the client
accepts the offer, the services will be provided under the terms previously indicated by
CPC), CPC has the obligation, prior to making the offer,
Assess the repayment capacity and solvency of the interested party. Otherwise, CPC

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/133

would be breaching the Prudential and Solvency and Loan Regulations
Responsable.

Therefore, even when the treatment is carried out based on the consent of the
interested, CPC must comply with the legal obligations established in the Regulations
Prudential and Solvency and Responsible Lending; so when you do a
personalized offer to an interested party, CPC must assess their ability to return
and solvency, consulting for this the data contained in information systems
credit.

v. It is not true that the interested party is not informed about the profiling operation
relative to the “Risk Score”

The Initiation Agreement states that CPC does not adequately inform the
interested parties about the treatment related to obtaining the data called
"Risk Score", considering that obtaining said data constitutes an operation of
independent data profiling and therefore should also be reported
specific.

(...). When informing the interested parties about the processing of their data, it is not mentioned
obtaining this specific data since, even if it is obtained with the
intervention of a person in charge of the treatment, it does not differ from the simple analysis and
study of data carried out both for regulatory purposes and with
commercial purposes.

In this sense and in terms of the legal basis that allows its realization, it is the same
than in the rest of the cases, that is, when it is carried out to carry out the
assessment of the repayment capacity or solvency of the interested party exclusively
within the framework of your request for a product or the management of credit granted to
clients, the legal basis is compliance with legal obligations applicable to CPC.
On the other hand, when it is carried out for commercial purposes, the legal basis of the
treatment will be the consent of the interested party, taking into account that to carry out
carrying out the analysis and study of data for commercial purposes will be
It is also necessary to observe prudential and solvency regulations.

As for the data used to obtain the "Risk Score", it is the work of
in credit information systems.

Therefore, the interested parties are duly informed about the treatment
carried out to obtain the "Risk Score", when integrating said operation of
treatment within the analysis and study of data carried out both for purposes
regulatory and commercial purposes.

According to each of the points previously exposed, it can be concluded that
effectively the consent given for the profiling purposes analyzed
complies with the requirement of separation of purposes and provision of consent
for each of them, in addition to being duly informed, so this is
valid.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/133

NINTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 77 of the LPACAP, on the date
June 22, 2021, it is agreed to open a period of practice tests,
considering reproduced for evidentiary purposes the filed claim, the
documentation corresponding to the transfer of the claim to the claimed entity,
the appeal for reversal filed by the claimant, as well as the
documentation in investigation file E/10053/2019. Likewise, it
considers reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
PS/00500/2020 filed by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U. It is agreed to include in the file the privacy policy that appears in the
website of the entity CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.

On the other hand, it is agreed to require said entity to provide the information and
following documentation within 10 business days:



Date of implementation of the new privacy policy and period during which
that the previous one was in force.

 Copy of the co-responsibility agreement referred to in the new

privacy policy and in the allegations to the initial agreement presented.

 Documents that provide customers with information to obtain
consent to carry out processing for commercial purposes,
such as, by way of example, the so-called "general conditions" and, if they have been
object of modifications, date in which these were produced.

 Contract made with the entity ***EMPRESA.3 for risk activity

score.

 Business volume of the Caixabank group in 2020.

 
By means of a procedure dated July 2, 2021, a capture of
screen with the privacy policy of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
EFC, EP, S.A.U. listed on their website. It is reproduced below
indicated in points 5 and 6.1 of said policy:

"5. Data categories
 
At CaixaBank Payments & Consumer we will process different personal data in order to
manage the Contractual Relations that you establish with us, to carry out the rest of the
the data processing that derives from your condition as a client and, if you have given us your
consent, to also carry out the processing of your data for the activities that are
detailed in section 6.1.

To facilitate your understanding, we have arranged the data we process in the categories that
we detail below.
Not all the categories of data that we detail are used for all data processing.
data. In section 6, where we detail the data processing we carry out, you
You can consult specifically for each specific treatment the categories of data that are
use, thus having the necessary information that allows you to exercise, if you wish, your
rights recognized by the RGPD, especially those of opposition and revocation of the
consent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/133

The categories of data used by the different treatments exposed in section 6 are
the following:

 > Data that you have provided us when signing up for your contracts or during your relationship with
us. These data are:









identification and contact data: your identification document, name and surnames,
gender, postal, telephone and electronic contact information, residence address,
nationality and date of birth, and language of communication.

socioeconomic data: detail of the professional or work activity, income or
remuneration, family unit or circle, educational level, assets, tax data and
tax data.

financial data: contracted products and services, relationship with the product
(condition of holder, authorized or representative), MiFID category.

biometric data: facial pattern, voice biometrics or fingerprint pattern.

> Data observed in the maintenance of products and services. These data are:



financial data: the information of the notes and movements that are made in
current accounts, including the type of operation, the issuer, the amount, and the concept,
information on investments made and their evolution, information on
financing, statements of operations with debit and credit cards, products
contracted and payment history.

It is important that you know that we will not treat data observed in the maintenance of
products and services that may contain information revealing their origin
racial or ethnic background, your political opinions, your religious or philosophical convictions, your
union affiliation, the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at
uniquely identify you, data relating to health or data relating to your life
or sexual orientation (“Sensitive Data”).







their status as a shareholder, or not, of CaixaBank.

digital data: the data obtained from the communications that we have established
between you and us in chats, walls, video conferences, phone calls or
equivalent means and the data obtained from your browsing through our pages
web or mobile applications and the navigation you make in them (device ID,
advertising ID, IP address and browsing history), if you have accepted
the use of cookies and similar technologies on your browsing devices.

geographic data: the geolocation data of your mobile device provided
for the installation and/or use of our mobile applications, where applicable
authorized in the settings of the application itself.

> Data inferred or deduced by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer from the analysis and
treatment of the rest of the data categories. These data are:



groupings of clients into categories and segments based on their age, wealth
and estimated income, operations, consumption habits, preferences or propensities to
contracting of products, demographics and relationship with other clients or categorization
according to the regulations on Markets in Financial Instruments (“MiFID”).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/133



scoring scores that assign probabilities of payment or non-payment or limits of
risk.

> Data that you have not provided us directly, obtained from sources accessible to the
public, public records or external sources. These data are:













 

capital and credit solvency data obtained from Asnef and Badexcug files.

data on risks held in the financial system obtained from the database
of the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain (CIRBE).

data of persons or entities that are included in laws, regulations, guidelines,
resolutions, programs or restrictive measures in terms of economic-
international financial institutions imposed by the United Nations, the European Union, the
Kingdom of Spain, United Kingdom and/or the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of
Foreign Asset Control (OFAC).

cadastral or statistical data obtained from companies that facilitate studies
socioeconomic and demographic statistics associated with geographical areas or codes
postcards, not to specific people.

digital data obtained from your browsing through third-party web pages (ID
device, advertising ID, IP address, browsing history), in the event that there is
accepted the use of cookies and similar technologies on your browsing devices.

data from social networks or the internet, that you have made public or that you authorize us to
Consult."

In point 6 of said privacy policy under the title "What treatments
we do with your data”, the following is stated:

“The treatments that we will carry out with your data are diverse, and respond to
different purposes and legal bases:

> Processing based on consent

> Treatments necessary for the execution of the Contractual Relations
 
> Treatments necessary to comply with regulatory obligations

> Processing based on the legitimate interest of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer”

Section 6.1 of said privacy policy contemplates the following treatments
based on consent:

A. Analysis of your data for the elaboration of profiles that help us to

offer you products that we think may interest you

B. Commercial offer of products and services through the selected channels.

C. Transfer of data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/133

d

Identification of clients and signature of documentation through the use of biometrics.

In point 6.1 of the aforementioned privacy policy, the following is stated:

“TREATMENTS BASED ON CONSENT.

 These treatments have your consent as a legal basis, as established in art.
6.1.a) of the GDPR.

We may have asked you for that consent through different channels, for example, to
through our electronic channels or at any of the CaixaBank Group companies. Yes
for some circumstance, we have never requested your consent, these
treatments will not apply to you.

You can consult the authorizations that you have consented or denied us, and
modify your decision at any time and free of charge on the CaixaBank website
Payments & Consumer (www.caixabankpc.com) and in each of the companies in the
CaixaBank Group, or in your private area of the CaixaBank website or mobile applications
Payments & Consumer and at CaixaBank offices.

The treatments based on your consent are indicated below in order of (A)
to the (D). We will indicate for each of them: the description of the purpose (Purpose), if they are or
no processing carried out under a co-responsibility regime with other Group companies
CaixaBank (Joint Controllers/Data Controller), and the categories of data
used (Categories of processed data).

A. Analysis of your data to create profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you.

Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to use the categories of data that
indicated below, to create profiles that allow us to identify you with segments
of customers with similar characteristics to yours and suggest products and services that
we believe may interest you, as well as establish the frequency with which we
we relate to you.

Through this treatment we will analyze your data to try to deduce your preferences or
needs and thus be able to make commercial offers that we believe may have more
interest than generic offers.

When the offers that we want to transmit consist of products that imply the payment of
installments or financing, we will carry out a pre-assessment of solvency to calculate the limit of
adequate credit to offer, in accordance with the principles of responsibility in the offer of
financing products required by the Bank of Spain.

It is important that you know that this treatment, including the pre-assessment of solvency in
products with risk, is limited to the indicated purpose of suggesting products and services that
we believe may interest you, and is not used, in any case, for denial of any
product or service or credit limit.

You always have at your disposal our complete catalog of products and services, and
this treatment does not prejudge, limit or condition your access to them, which, in the event that
request them, they will be evaluated with you in accordance with CaixaBank's ordinary procedures
Payments & Consumers.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/133

We will only carry out this processing of your data if you have given us your consent.
for it. Your consent will remain in effect as long as you do not withdraw it.

If you cancel all your products or services with the CaixaBank Group companies, but forget
withdraw your consent, we will do so automatically.

Categories of processed data: The categories of data that we will process for this purpose, whose
content is detailed in section 5, they are:

> data that you will have provided us

> data observed in the maintenance of products and services, with the exception of data
sensitive

> data inferred or deduced by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer.

> data that you have not provided us directly.

Co-responsible for the treatment: The treatment of your data of the indicated categories, with
the purpose of analysis for the elaboration of profiles that help us offer you products
that we believe may be of interest to you, is carried out under co-responsibility by the
following companies of the CaixaBank Group:

> CaixaBank, S.A.

> CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U.

> CaixaBank Electronic Money, EDE, S.L.

> VidaCaixa, S.A.U., insurance and reinsurance

> New Micro Bank, S.A.U.

> CaixaBank Equipment Finance, S.A.U.

> Promo Caixa, S.A.U.

> Comercia Global Payments, E.P. SL

> Buildingcenter, S.A.U.

> Imagintech S.A.

You will find the list of companies that process your data, as well as the essential aspects of
the co-responsibility treatment agreements at: www.caixabank.es/empresasgrupo.”

Accessing from this link, the following text can be read:

“To carry out the processing that we indicate below, CaixaBank and
CaixaBank Group companies will jointly process your data, deciding
It brings together the objectives (“what the data is used for”) and the means used (“how the data is used”).
the data"), being, therefore, co-responsible for these treatments (Entities
co-responsible).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/133

The processing for which CaixaBank and the CaixaBank Group companies will process
jointly your data, are the following (you can see the detail of the companies of the Group
Caixabank that make up the perimeter of each of the treatments carried out in
co-responsibility by clicking on each of the following links):

Carry out the commercial activities of: (i) analysis of your personal data for the

profiling to help us offer you products that we believe may
interest you; (ii) commercial offer of products and services through the selected channels, and
(iii) transfer of data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group;

Comply with the following regulations applicable to the companies of the Group

CaixaBank: (i) the regulations for the prevention of money laundering and financing of the
terrorism; (ii) tax regulations; (iii) the obligations derived from the
sanctions policies and international financial countermeasures, as well as (iv) the
obligations of granting and managing credit operations and the consultation and
communication of risks to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain
(CIRBE).

Carry out the analysis of the solvency and the repayment capacity of the applicants


of products that involve financing.

In accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, the Jointly Responsible Entities have
signed an agreement of co-responsibility for certain treatments, whose elements
essential are the following:

(i) That, for certain treatments identified in the Privacy Policy, the
Co-responsible Entities will act in a coordinated or joint manner.

(ii) That they have proceeded to determine the security, technical and organizational measures,
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk inherent in the
processing of personal data subject to co-responsibility.

(iii) That they have a single window mechanism for the exercise of the rights of the
stakeholders, assuming the commitment of the duty of collaboration and assistance in those
cases in which it was appropriate.

(iv) That they comply with the obligation to respect the duty of secrecy and keep due
confidentiality of the personal data that are processed within the framework of the activities of
reported data processing.

(v) Regardless of the terms of the co-responsibility agreement, the interested parties
may exercise their rights in terms of data protection against each of the
responsible."

TENTH: In response to what was requested by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
EFC, EP, S.A.U, the term granted to provide documentation was extended by five
business days.

On July 12, 2021, a written response to the opening of the period is received.
of practice of tests, in which it is indicated that the date of publication of the new
privacy policy is dated January 18, 2021 and that said privacy policy
replaces the previous one, which had been in force from July 21, 2019 to
January 17, 2021.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/133

Said letter also states the following:

Attached as an Annex to this document is the co-responsibility agreement to which
refers to in the aforementioned privacy policy, as well as in the allegations to the
initial agreement presented, previously provided in the course of the Procedure
Penalty PS/00477/2019 to CAIXABANK, S.A. hereinafter, the "Sanctioning Procedure
to CAIXABANK”),
  and whose essential aspects are published in
https://www.caixabank.es/particular/general/tratamiento-de-datosempresas-del-grupo.html.

The aforementioned co-responsibility agreement defines the purposes and means of the
treatments, as well as the basic rules to be observed by all the companies that make up
these treatments in co-responsibility, and duly reflects the existing agreement regarding
to the respective responsibilities in terms of data protection referred to in the
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 General Data Protection; it's found
pending signature pending the resolution of the request for the application of measures
precautionary measures related to the Sanctioning Procedure against CAIXABANK, which could
imply the modification of its content.

Regarding the information provided to the interested parties to obtain their
consent, it is stated that "the information
provided for the performance of treatments for commercial purposes, previously provided
in the response to the request for information received on February 6, 2020 (in
hereinafter, the “Information Request”).

Although they have been planned, no modifications have yet been made to the aforementioned
information from your contribution in the response to the Request for information, waiting
of the resolution of the request for the application of precautionary measures related to the
Penalty procedure against CAIXABANK, which could affect the modifications of the
mentioned documentation, planned at this time.

Said Annex also includes the information provided to the interested parties for the
Obtaining your consent to carry out processing for commercial purposes,
when the consent is collected from the banking channel (CAIXABANK). Is
documentation, provided previously in the course of the Sanctioning Procedure to
CAIXABANK, was modified in March 2021, within the framework of the aforementioned actions
aimed at the implementation of the new privacy policy.

In relation to the contract with the entity ***EMPRESA.3, annex III is attached, "the contract
of services carried out with the entity ***EMPRESA.3, previously provided in the response to
already mentioned Request for information. Likewise, it is reported that the aforementioned
The contract has not undergone modifications since its contribution to the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Lastly, regarding the volume of business of the Group or CAIXABANK, it is indicated that "as of 31 December
December 2020 is estimated at twelve thousand one hundred and seventy-two million euros. bliss
information is extracted from pages 248 and 249 (“Annex 6 – Annual bank report”) of the
Consolidated Annual Accounts of the
  available in
https://www.caixabank.com/deployedfiles/caixabank_com/Estaticos/PDFs/Accionalessinversore
s/General_Information/Consolidated_Annual_Accounts_CBK_2020_ES.pd”

  CaixaBank Group,

Provide as Annex II the following documents:

 GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT AGREEMENT, in
whose header appears the entity CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the date
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

48/133

April 10, 2020. The content of said document coincides with the one sent after
the requirement of the Data Inspection made on February 6, 2020 as
annex 12.

This document is structured in various sections, of which number 26
contemplates in different sections various aspects of data processing
such as the different treatments according to their basis of legitimacy, the exercise of
rights by the interested parties or the period of conservation of the data
among other issues. Thus, section 26.1 refers to the Processing of
personal data for the purpose of managing relations
Commercial; section 26.3 to the processing of personal data with
regulatory purposes, this section in turn is divided into various subsections
such as those related to Processing for the adoption of diligence measures
due to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of the
terrorism (26.3.1), treatment for compliance with the management policy of
International financial sanctions and countermeasures (26.3.2), communication with
credit information systems (26.3.3.), communication of data to the Central
Information on Risks from the Bank of Spain (26.3.4), etc. Section 26.4 is
refers to the processing and transfer of data for commercial purposes by CaixaBank
and the CaixaBank Group companies based on consent. the section
26.1 and 26.4 are transcribed in the fifth factual record of the
this motion for a resolution.

 Framework Agreement in whose header appears CaixaBank, and in whose section 4.1 it is
indicates that "the person responsible for the processing of your personal data in your
contractual and business relations is CaixaBank, S.A., with NIF A08663619 and
address at calle Pintor Sorolla, 2-4 Valencia.” Adding the following:

"Co-responsible for treatment: In addition, for certain treatments that are
reported in detail in the aforementioned policy, CaixaBank and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank will jointly process your data, jointly deciding the
objectives (“what the data is used for”) and the means used (“how the data is used”).
data"), being, therefore, co-responsible for these treatments. treatments
for which CaixaBank and the CaixaBank Group companies will treat
jointly your data are the following: > carry out commercial activities
of: (i) analysis of your personal data for the preparation of profiles that we
help offer you products that we think you may be interested in; (ii) offer
commercial products and services through the selected channels, and (iii) assignment of
data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group; (…)

You will find the list of companies that process your data, as well as the aspects
essentials of treatment agreements in co-responsibility in:
www.caixabank.es/empresasgroup.”
On the point. 4.5 of this document, entitled "What treatments do we carry out with your
data”, it indicates with respect to the treatments based on consent, the
following purposes:

− Analysis of your data to create profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/133

− Make our commercial offer of products and services available to you for the
selected channels.

 − Transfer of data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group for
that they make commercial offers of products that they commercialize.

− Identification of clients and signature of documentation through the use of biometrics.

− Application of personal conditions in co-ownership contracts.

This document is not dated. In the information provided in the
written sent to this Agency, it is indicated that "This Annex also includes
the information provided to the interested parties to obtain their
consent to carry out processing for commercial purposes, when
consent is collected from the banking channel (CAIXABANK). Is
documentation, provided previously in the course of the Procedure
Sanctioning CAIXABANK, was modified in March 2021, within the framework of the
aforementioned actions aimed at the implementation of the new policy of
Privacy."

 Screenshots requesting customer consent.

- A screenshot on the prescriber channel, which exactly matches
the one described for said channel in point 5 of the fifth antecedent of this
resolution proposal.

- New office client registration screen capture (face-to-face onboarding, in the
that the following is stated: "deliver the tablet to the client so that he can complete
himself the consents” and screenshots of the new client Portal
Web (digital onboarding). In both modes, information is provided
basic for the client on the treatment of personal data indicating that the
responsible for the treatment is: “Caixabank, with NIF A08663619 and address at
Calle Pintor Sorolla, 2-4 Valencia. Co-responsible for the treatment “For
certain activities Caixabank, S.A. and the companies of the Group
Caixabank will jointly process your data. You will find the list of
companies that process your data, as well as the essential aspects of the
agreements
in
treatment
www.caixabank.es/empresasgroup.”
 
Regarding the consents, it is indicated in both modalities that
“You authorize the companies of the CaixaBank group to:

co-responsibility

of

in

 

 

 

 

 

Analyze your data to create profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you. If we have your consent,
we will configure or design an offer of adjusted products and services
to your characteristics as a client, through the analysis of your data and the
profiling with your information.”

Next, there are two boxes in which you can check yes or no. In
other sections consent is requested to communicate the commercial offer

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/133

of products and services through the channels that are selected and to transfer the data
to companies that are not part of the Caixabank Group with which they have
agreements.

Regarding the analysis treatments for profiling, it is provided
also in both modalities the following information: “These treatments
have your consent as a legal basis, as established in article
6.1.a of the General Data Protection Regulation.” It is reiterated to
Below is the information offered in the privacy policy relating to this
type of treatment regarding the purpose, categories of data processed and
co-responsible for the treatment. However, regarding the data
Processed indicates: “the categories of data that we will process for this purpose
whose content is detailed in section 5 of our Privacy Policy.
Privacy (www.Caixabank.es/privacy policy) are: data that you
will have provided, data observed in the maintenance of the products and
services with the exception of sensitive data, data inferred or deduced by
Caixabank, data that you have not provided us directly.” not listed in
none of the screens the description of this data.
 

 Co-responsibility agreement. This agreement has no date or signature. The
Number 6 regarding its duration states that “This Agreement shall enter into force
on the date of its signature and will remain in force indefinitely, without prejudice to
the revision and necessary modifications of its terms and content for its
adaptation, where appropriate, to the current regulations that are applicable in each
moment..."

Said agreement contains the following definition: “Co-responsible for the Treatment or
Co-responsible: Means those responsible who jointly determine the
objectives, purposes and means of Treatment detailed in Annex 1.”

In the aforementioned annex it mentions the following treatments object of
co-responsibility regarding “commercial activities”:

a) analysis of personal data for the preparation of profiles that help us to

offer products that we believe may be of interest to the customer

 

 

the

in

  Politics

Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to use the data categories
indicated
  CaixaBank
(www.caixabank.com/politicaprivacidad) to create profiles that allow users to
Co-responsible identify the customer with similar customer segments
characteristics to be able to offer you products and services that may interest you, as well as
as, to establish the periodicity with which the Joint Controllers relate
with the.

  Privacy

from

from

 

 

Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.

b)

 Commercial offer of products and services through the selected channels.

 Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to make available to the client
communications of commercial offers related to own products and services or
third parties marketed by CaixaBank and/or entities of the CaixaBank Group. Are
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

51/133

Communications will only be sent to the client through the channels previously
he has authorized us by giving his consent.

Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.
 

c) transfer of data to entities that are not part of the CaixaBank Group Purpose: The
The purpose of this treatment is to transfer the data of the interested parties to entities that do not
are part of the CaixaBank Group with which the Joint Controllers have agreements,
with the purpose that they make commercial offers of the products that they
they market.

Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.

Then list the co-responsible parties, which would be the following:

CAIXABANK, S.A.

CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U.

CAIXABANK ELECTRONIC MONEY, EDE, S.L

VIDACAIXA, S.A.U., OF INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE

NEW MICRO BANK, S.A.U.

CAIXABANK EQUIPMENT FINANCE, S.A.U

PROMO CAIXA, S.A.U.

COMERCIA GLOBAL PAYMENTS, E.P. SL

BUILDINGCENTER, S.A.U.

IMAGINTECH, S.A.

In successive annexes, other treatments subject to co-responsibility are contemplated,
whose legitimate basis is found in the fulfillment of legal obligations or the
execution of contractual relations.



Contract signed with the entity ***COMPANY.3 for risk activity
score. As indicated in said contract, dated June 2, 2020,
the contract signed on May 2, 2017 has been renewed,
in turn extended on May 2, 2019 to incorporate the
services outlined in Annex I (not attached). are parts
in said contract CAIXABANK and CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER and the entities (...) designating the latter two
jointly as SUPPLIER. This document contains two
clauses:

The first clause of said contract regarding the modifying novation does not
termination of clause 15 of the contract, replaces the aforementioned clause with effect

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/133

retroactive to May 25, 2018, with new elements related to the person in charge
of treatment, in order to adapt the risk score services to the obligations
regulations contained in the LOPDGDD and in the RGPD

In the second of the clauses, it is agreed to include in Annex I (Annex of
services) a clause relating to specific aspects of data processing of
personal nature of the risk score service. This clause refers to the
description of the treatment, indicating that for the sole purpose of providing the
risk score service CAIXABANK AND CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
make the following information available to the supplier “(…).” are pointed to
then the following treatments by the supplier: exploitation,
query and destruction; the typology of the data (DNI (NIE/Passport) and categories
of interested parties affected (customers, non-customer participants). Refering to
purpose of the treatment it is indicated that the provider will use the data of a
personal object of treatment solely and exclusively for the fulfillment of the
ANNEX I, not being able to use them, in any case, for their own purposes. Annex I does not
Attached.

ELEVENTH: On 08/06/2021, a resolution proposal was issued in the
following sense:

FIRST: That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
sanction CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U., with NIF
A08980153, for an infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the RGPD, and qualified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in article 73 of
the LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to 3,000,000 euros (three million
euros.

SECOND: That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
proceed to impose on the entity CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U in the period determined, the adoption of the necessary measures to
adapt the procedures to the personal data protection regulations
through which it obtains from its clients the consent to create profiles with
commercial purposes, with the scope expressed in the Legal Basis VII.

TWELFTH: Notified to the entity CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
EFC, EP, S.A.U the aforementioned resolution proposal, dated 08/13/2021, was entered
written in this Agency requesting an extension of the term to formulate
allegations. Once the extension of the term was granted, on 09/03/2021 it was entered into
this Agency written of allegations, in which the annulment of the
initiation agreement, subsidiarily the filing of the proceedings and subsidiarily,
in case you are held responsible for violations of article 6 of the
RGPD, that the warning be agreed or, failing that, that the amount be imposed
of the corresponding sanction in its minimum degree. It also requests again that
in any case that the consents obtained are not declared null and, if it were the
case, the AEPD orders the measures that in its opinion may be
adequate to improve compliance with data protection regulations.

It declares reproduced in its entirety its allegations to the initial agreement and formulates the
considerations, also divided into two groups, which are briefly exposed to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/133

continuation:

A) REGARDING THE NULLITY OF THE ACTIONS

CPC alleges that it cannot share that the connection between the claim initially
inadmissible for processing and the Agreement to Start this Sanctioning Procedure is
based on "the request for information about the claimant to a solvency file
without your consent and the subsequent offer of a financial product, which
presupposes that the data of said person has been improperly used to carry
carried out a profile on the basis of which said product was offered'

On the one hand, it is stated that it is "assumed" that profiling has been carried out without
consent, ignoring that, as has already been explained in allegations
prior, which are considered reproduced here, once consent has been obtained (for
therefore, consent is requested), to carry out the personalization of the
product offer according to the analysis of customer data (profiling), exists,
in addition, a legal obligation on the part of CPC not to offer financial products
that may not be suitable according to the economic-financial capacity profile of the
potential recipient of the commercial offer; therefore, before offering them, they must
Solvency aspects of the potential recipients of these products should be verified.

Therefore, that profiling referred to by the AEPD, in which, among others, is used
information on solvency, the use of that type of data would specifically have its
basis of legality in the fulfillment of a legal obligation by the person in charge
treatment, even if it is part of a treatment for which previously
has requested the consent of the interested party.

In addition, it affirms that relevant information for the defense has been ignored since in the
initial agreement no reference was made to the fact that the interested party filed an appeal
of reinstatement to the inadmissibility of his claim and this was estimated by the AEPD.

2. Regarding the allegation regarding the alleged breach of article 55.1
of the LPACAP, in connection with article 53 of the LOPDGDD, by which CPC
considers that the data inspection would have exceeded the scope of the phase
prior investigation, indicates that the AEPD recognizes a new error, in this case
seems to be a "transcription" error impossible to detect, nor confirm by this part
in any way, in such a way that the AEPD, highlighting its alleged error,
deactivates a potential cause of nullity of the administrative procedure, with which
Once again, the need for information and actions in
the framework of a sanctioning procedure must be characterized by its precision and rigor
in all relevant circumstances.

"The AEPD affirms, in an added justification effort, that as such treatments
of "potential clients" do not exist, since that is indeed what CPC has informed, not
research actions have been carried out on this type of treatment,
diverting attention from what is relevant, not so much the actions
actually carried out, but those that allegedly wanted to be carried out
exceeding the inspection activity of what was ordered by the Director of the
AEPD; another thing is that, when advancing in the investigative actions, there would have been
had to give up such an objective, in the absence of such treatments, which does not diminish
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/133

in any degree the excess initially proposed. We don't know what would be
past if such treatments had existed, but it is reasonable to think that the
investigation had been carried out outside the scope specified by the Director
of the AEPD.

3. Regarding the alleged violation of the ne bis in idem principle, CPC values that the
The same collection of consents for the elaboration of profiles was the object of
investigation and sanction in the sanctioning procedure against CAIXABANK, S.A,
number PS/00477/2019, as long as there is identity of subject, fact and basis, without
that can accept the arguments of the AEPD, valuing as non-existent the
co-responsibility for lack of accreditation of the same, since carrying out a
treatment of personal data based on co-responsibility is a decision
of the entities that want to act as co-responsible parties, except in those
assumptions in which such circumstance is predefined in a norm.

He affirms that it generates an extraordinary confusion and insecurity not knowing how to identify
what other instruments of accreditation of the co-responsibility agreed between
some of the entities of the CaixaBank Group for some data processing
personal, for which they have jointly determined ends and means, all
included in the agreement and policies, should be provided in the opinion of the AEPD, and even more
we are surprised that the burden of proof is reversed on this issue as it should
be the AEPD who will provide evidence or proof that there is no
co-responsibility of the treatment object of the Sanctioning Procedure, since
CPC has provided solid and more than sufficient evidence that indeed
there is such responsibility.

Article 26 of the GDPR is very clear on this; the existence of co-responsibility
is based on a mutual agreement of two or more data controllers on
their respective responsibilities so that a specific treatment complies with the
Regulation, and that agreement must obey the factual reality of the treatments, in
insofar as those responsible jointly determine the objectives and the means
of the treatment; therefore, we are facing a decision that, in general,
may or may not adopt two or more data controllers, so that such
decision cannot be questioned at the discretion of third parties as long as
as long as there is a requirement that those responsible have determined
jointly the objectives and the means of treatment, as is the case of
treatment object of the Resolution Proposal.

And the confusion increases when, as an argument to refute the violation of the
non bis in idem principle, the AEPD refers to the fact that in the event of
co-responsibility, that is, it has gone from "not being accredited but, to
judgment of this Agency, its existence is not even admissible in the present
of course", to assess how one would act in the event that it existed, arguing that
Several co-responsible parties could be sanctioned for the same acts
taking into account that the responsibility does not have to apply to a single subject,
this last question with which we can agree but which, obviously,
If this is the case, it should have been processed in the same procedure or, at least,
taking into account at the time of graduating the sanction the share of responsibility
corresponding, and therefore calculating the sanction based on such co-responsibility,
issue that we are not aware of has been taken into account either, or perhaps it has, since the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/133

duality of arguments, a priori contradictory used by the AEPD, leads us to not
know if the violation of the non bis in idem principle does not exist because there is no
co-responsibility or because the AEPD has considered that there is co-responsibility and has
opted to sanction according to the part of the treatment carried out by each
co-responsible; without a doubt a clearer pronouncement by the AEPD
would reduce the degree of defenselessness that as a whole generates for CPC the
procedure processed by the AEPD.

4. Regarding the allegation about the arbitrary action of the AEPD in this
procedure, none of the explanations and justifications developed by the AEPD
are convincing, since the discriminatory treatment with respect to
similar procedures, and we cannot admit that the AEPD resorts to an obvious and
simple generic reference to which it has applied the elements established in the article
83 of the RGPD and article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, explaining that they are listed in the
motion for a resolution itself, thus responding to part of the argument, without
has come to assess the examples of specific procedures that CPC transferred in
their allegations to the Home Agreement, without giving an explanation about "resolutions of
AEPD sanctioning procedures in which the person responsible for/
treatment for violation of article 6 RGPD (vid, PPSS 00235/2019, 00182/2019,
00415/2019) and that, taking into account the condition of a large company and the volume of
business, among others, not even remotely the sanctions reach the economic level of the
sanction proposal contained in this Initiation Agreement, since they are
sanctions that have ranged between €60,000 and €120,000"

It alleges that, as evidence of this differentiated treatment, it will focus on the "Plan of
ex officio inspection on distance contracting in operators of
telecommunications and energy marketers' whose results report was
published by the AEPD on October 29, 2020; available at the following link
https://www.aepd.es/es/prensa-y-comunicacion/notas-deprensa/aepd-publica-
results-audit-contracting-telecommunications-energy.

According to CPC it is, to say the least, surprising that they have opted for the
preventive instrument of audit plans, precisely for the sector
telecommunications.

The Annual Report of the Spanish Data Protection Agency includes a table
elaborated by the AEPD in which the 10 areas of activity with the greatest
number of claims received in 2019 and its comparison with 2018. The
information on the number of claims included in the aforementioned table of
data, indicates that in both areas of activity the claims represent the
same percentage, each of them 4% with respect to the total claims (for
2019), and, if we take into account the absolute data, the claims in relation to
"Financial entities/creditors", there were a total of 576 in 2018, being for the
"Telecommunications" sector in the same period 451 claims. And, in the case
of 2019, the claims filed were 464 in relation to “Entities
financial/creditors" and 424 for the "Telecommunications" sector, that is, a
practically the same incidence of complaints, but surprisingly, in one case
chooses to adopt a preventive measure ("Telecommunications"), and in another a measure
punitive ("Financial institutions/creditors"), which results in an obvious treatment
unequal, which is not justified, and which has also not been motivated by the AEPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/133

  of 9 of

February 2020,

Quite the contrary, the Director of the AEPD herself was right, in statements
public, has come to equate both sectors in terms of claims
received by the Agency, specifically in an interview published by "La Voz de
Galicia",
  available in
https://www.lavozdegalicia.es/noticia/sociedad/2020/02/08/mar-espana-habra-
important sanctions-violate-data-protection/00031581176394099239215.htm, in
the one that when asked which were the sectors that received the most complaints, the
Director replied that: "There are many complaints from the sector of the
telecommunications, not because it is where data processing is worst, but
because it is one of the sectors where the consumer is more accustomed to
present claims, and also from financial entities, therefore, it is still
understands less the unequal treatment of one and another sector, for "Telecommunications"
ordering preventive measures, and for the "Financial entities/creditors"
acting with punitive measures, when in the opinion of the Director of the AEPD they are
equivalent sectors from the perspective of protection claims
data received at the Agency.

5. With regard to the alleged violation of the fundamental right to
presumption of innocence, CPC reiterates the allegations made to the initial agreement
of this sanctioning procedure, adding that "regarding the suggestion
made to us in the Motion for a Resolution that the lack of impartiality of the
administrative body alleged by CPC should have been accompanied by a
formal recusal of the Director of the AEPD, the truth is that CPC already valued in its
moment that the assumptions of abstention of article 23.2 of the Law
40/2015, and, consequently, requesting the challenge suggested in the
Motion for a Resolution, which does not invalidate the fact that we consider that rationally
there are indications of arbitrariness and defenselessness insofar as the aforementioned
resolutions of other procedures, including the Resolution Proposal,
seek notoriety and media impact, not said by us, but by the very
Director of the AEPD in the media, that if these are not true
statements, perhaps the Agency should have taken action against such media;
indeed, the regulation provides for appraised causes of abstention, which allow
formally raise a challenge, but it is no less true that the fact is that
such assumptions do not concur, does not prevent arbitrary actions or defenselessness, or
even misuse of power, for example, notoriety is sought, especially when the
The mandate of the current Director of the AEPD has ended since last July 27
of 2019.”

6. Regarding the alleged artificial and unlawful extension of the previous actions
reiterates the allegations made to the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure
and affirms that the Initiation Agreement rests, practically in its entirety, on
elements of charge collected during the phase of previous actions, not complying
with the purpose attributed to them by the legal system, as will be explained later.
forward, so that in fact, and not in law, they were carrying out
instruction actions beyond the simple search for evidence to initiate
sanctioning procedure, almost reaching its expiration, that is, obviously as
As the instructor mentions in the Resolution Proposal, there was no agreement of
beginning on which such an instruction was based, therefore, these previous actions being
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/133

for its content contrary to law, and in fact that is precisely what we complain about,
Actions were advanced that could not yet be carried out.

It is especially striking in this case, the time elapsed between the
inadmissibility of processing the claim and the requirement of prior information, this
is, more than a year, without taking into account the aforementioned lack of information regarding the
appeal for reconsideration of inadmissibility, which was estimated by the AEPD, without having
knowledge of it this part; or the extension of the period of previous actions
research for a period of 14 months, yes, taking into account the incidence
of the pandemic.

The TS itself, in its Judgment of May 6, 2015, establishes the following: this Chamber
has declared that this period prior to the initiation agreement «(...) must be
necessarily brief and not conceal a contrived way of carrying out acts of investigation
and mask and reduce the duration of the subsequent file itself" (judgment of 6
May 2015, appeal 3438/2012, F. J 29; this is what we mean when
we use the expression of "artificial extension" of the previous actions in which
investigative acts related to the facts would have been carried out
object of the Resolution Proposal.

B. IN RELATION TO THE ALLEGED INFRINGEMENT COMMITTED BY CPC

The AEPD affirms that the information provided to the interested parties to obtain
consent "is incomplete and insufficient", identifying a series of
deficiencies in the aforementioned information in relation to the treatments whose purpose is
"the offer and design of products and services adjusted to the profile of the client"

Thus, regarding the treatment operation that implies carrying out "in an
proactive risk analysis and apply statistics and technical data to your data
customer segmentation" it is said that it does not indicate (i) what type of profile is going to
be made, (ii) the purpose of profiling.

Regarding "monitoring of the contracted products and services",
The AEPD observes the same deficiency, that is, "the purpose or type of
profile to be drawn up"; and with respect to operations to adjust measures
recoveries on defaults and incidents arising from products and services
contracted" initially only sees as a deficiency the fact that "it is not indicated
what type of profile is going to be carried out" since the AEPD expressly states that
"the purpose of the profile is indicated"

In relation to the lack of information on the type of profile, we must show our
surprise that the AEPD raises such a lack of information since, neither in the
CEPD guidelines nor in other documents consulted from the AEPD itself,
specifies that such "profile type" information should be provided, and how
In addition, it is worth mentioning that neither is it defined or specified in these documents what
listing or catalog of profile types or categories should be used to indicate that
intends to develop a specific "type of profile", nor is it argued that this serves so that the
interested party has information that is relevant to decide to authorize, or
no, the treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/133

It is clear that all the profiles that can be drawn up in the context of the relationship
of a client with a bank or financial entity will be related to that
activity. Therefore, there are no different "types of profile" to elaborate since they are all
related to the relationship established between the entity and the client; maybe the
AEPD, when referring to "type of profile" (we insist that it is a concept not used
in the guidelines of the CEPD and neither in the documents of the AEPD), you want to refer
to the "type of evaluation or judgment about a person", which in any case leads us into
this assumption to the same response, will be a profile derived from the relationship between the
entity and the interested party. It would be different in the case of a company whose main activity
is to create profiles, where perhaps there would be room for a distinction between types of profiles,
but it is not the case of CPC, whose main activities are derived from its object
social, not forming part of it the elaboration of profiles as an activity
general or main but rather instrumental and accessory within the framework of its
business activities.

In the Transparency Guidelines under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (W P
260 rev.01), when detailing the information that must be provided on the
Profiling refers to the provisions of the GDPR; that is, it is obligatory
provide information about the use of profiles, as well as "significant information
about the underlying logic and the notable and anticipated consequences of the treatment
for the interested party", supported such affirmation in a part of the content of
Considering 60: "the interested party must also be informed of the existence of the
profiling and the consequences of such profiling

In any case, the WP260 refers to the already mentioned "Guidelines on decisions
automated individual information and profiling" in order to "get targeted
information on how to put transparency into practice in the circumstances
specific aspects of profiling

We must add that the annex to WP260 identifies the type of information that
must be provided to data subjects, depending on various circumstances that
they can participate in the processing of personal data; Thus, it is worth mentioning that
the first column does not make any reference to 'profile type' as a
information to be provided to the interested parties, referring exclusively to the "existence of
automated decisions, including profiling, and, where appropriate,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
foreseen consequences of said treatment for the interested party", and sending in its
observations to the guidelines on Guidelines on individual decisions
automated and profiling.

Therefore, in the Transparency Guidelines under Regulation (EU)
2016/679 does not identify that the type of profile is information that in a way
must be provided to the interested parties, nor does it present it as an orientation or
a good practice; therefore, no mention is made of this type of information
to comply with the transparency principle of the RGPD. The EDPB does not consider that
it is necessary to provide such information that is now required by the AEPD in its Proposal
Resolution.

In the Guidelines on automated individual decisions and the preparation of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/133

profiles for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP251rev.01), when they are developed
the general provisions on profiling and automated decisions,
in the section dedicated to the principle of legality, loyalty and transparency, in what
As far as transparency is concerned, he refers to the fact that in the "Guidelines on
transparency of the Article 29 Working Group" deals in greater detail with the
transparency, therefore makes a general reference to the document analyzed in the
previous section of our allegations.

The CEPD affirms that "people have different levels of understanding and can
difficult to understand the complex techniques involved in the production processes
profiles and automated decisions"; that is, the CEPD advocates for information
free of complexities, alluding to the provisions of article 12.1 of the RGPD: "the
data controller must provide data subjects with concise information,
transparent, intelligible and easily accessible on the processing of your data
personal", delves into this issue when, referring to a guide from the Office
of the Australian Information Commissioner, in which it is stated that: "The statements
of confidentiality must communicate practices on the handling of information of
clearly and simply, but also exhaustively and sufficiently
specificity to be meaningful" The bottom line is that it must be reported
"clear and simple"; More information does not necessarily mean more
transparency, and this needs to be balanced against being comprehensive and providing
exclusively the detail of what is really significant, avoiding, for
therefore, the well-known "information fatigue", for which the use of layers of information and
different moments in which information can be reported with greater or lesser exhaustiveness and
detail, must be taken into account as we will analyze later.

In this regard, the aforementioned guide from the Australian Information Commissioner also
states that the "technology itself that allows a greater collection of information
staff also provides the opportunity to develop confidentiality statements
more dynamic, multi-layered and user-centric". This last element
has been a common denominator in the information that CPC and the CaixaBank Group have
provided to its clients in relation to the processing of their personal data, and that
now with the resolutions already mentioned the AEPD has clearly put in crisis,
advocating for an information model towards the interested parties where it only has
present completeness and detail (whether useful or not), in which it is not clear where
the level of comprehension of the information provided must be located, pretending
that this adapts to the understanding of the AEPD itself, not so much of the people who
They really should get that information. Let us remember that the CEPD refers
expressly to the fact that "people have different levels of understanding and can
difficult to understand the complex techniques involved in the production processes
profiles".

The guidelines that we are analyzing, in terms of situations in which
data controllers "intend to rely on consent as the basis
for profiling' say that the data controller must
demonstrate "that data subjects understand exactly what they are consenting to". In
In this regard, the CaixaBank Group has proactively verified this understanding
through studies that have involved clients. But it is that, in addition, Group
CaixaBank has not received claims from interested parties that they have
evidence that the information that has been provided in the different layers
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/133

information has generated significant doubts, not even such a question is part
of the claim that gives rise to the Resolution Proposal. And it should be added that
In this matter, the AEPD is inverting the burden of proof, since it does not provide
some indication or evidence that the information provided is not understandable;
let us remember that the CEPD believes that "those interested must have sufficient
information about the intended use and consequences of the processing to ensure
that any consent they give constitutes an informed choice." This part
wants to emphasize that the CEPD refers to "sufficient information" (not information
exhaustive that would provoke a reaction of not reading the informative notices), and
that such information should be about "use and consequences"; not mentioning
the CEPD the "type of profile" that the AEPD now requires, considering that not reporting
this information supposes a deficiency that has partially led him to conclude that
the consent obtained by CPC is invalid.

When referring to the "right to be informed", the CEPD insists that "those responsible for
treatment should ensure that they explain to people, in a clear and simple way, the
operation of the elaboration of profiles"; fleeing, therefore, from complicated and
extensive explanations, adding that what is relevant is that it be clear "to the user
the fact that the processing is for the purposes of both a) profiling and
b) adoption of a decision based on the generated profile". Let us remember that, as
as has been proven, CPC informs the interested parties both that they are made
profiles, as well as the decision that is adopted from them, related to
exclusively with the sending of commercial offers.

And, in relation to other types of information that must be provided to the interested parties,
It is very important to mention the reference made by the CEPD in these guidelines
to the right of access (article 15 of the RGPD), so that as it is well expressed, "the
Article 15 gives the data subject the right to obtain details of any data
personnel used for profiling, including categories of data
used to create a profile adding that, in addition to the general information, "the
responsible for the treatment has the duty to make available the data used
as input data to create profiles, as well as to facilitate access to the
information about the profile and details about the segments to which it has been assigned
to the interested party" (perhaps by "type of profile" the AEPD refers to the "segments
assigned to the client"); that is to say, in no case is such informative detail required
by the AEPD of the information obligations of articles 13 and 14 but, in
In any case, such exhaustive information must be provided when the interested party has
exercised the right of access recognized by article 15 of the RGPD, and it is here
where the AEPD gets confused by demanding that, in the different layers of information that
are made available to all customers, must include types of information that
it is only reasonable and common sense that it be made available to customers
as a consequence of a request for a right of access in relation to the treatment
including the use of profiles.

In addition, the CEPD itself establishes limits to the scope of the information that must be
be provided in connection with profiling when you state that "the
recital 63 provides some protection for data controllers
affected by the disclosure of trade secrets or intellectual property, which
may be particularly relevant in relation to profiling." And it is
that recital 63 establishes that the right of access "must not affect

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/133

negatively to the rights and freedoms of third parties, including the secrets
commercial or intellectual property and, in particular, proprietary rights
intellectual property that protect computer programs. By extension, we interpret that
such protection extends to the algorithms used for profiling, which
include, among other issues, the specific data used, which is not
makes it difficult to provide information on categories of data
used, but not necessarily the exhaustive detail of such data, nor how it is
used, and it is not necessary to report on the result of the application of
the aforementioned algorithms or information analysis techniques, which could be
even protected by Law 1/2019, of February 20, on Business Secrets,
but yes of the consequences that it can have for the interested parties; that is, the
The regulation as a whole advocates a balanced model in terms of information
that must be provided in relation to profiling, which takes into account
both the rights and freedoms of the people whose data is processed
such as the rights of data controllers regarding certain information
that could constitute business secrets in general, and, in particular,
the trade secrets referred to in the RGPD itself.

In annex I of the guidelines on automated individual decisions and
profiling includes recommendations for good practices;
We emphasize that these are recommendations from a set of good
practices that should not be interpreted as mandatory or binding but, as
as expressly stated at the beginning of the aforementioned annex•. "The following
good practice recommendations will help data controllers to
meet the requirements of the GDPR provisions on profiling and
automated decisions"; that is, they are good practices that have
as a purpose "help" to comply with the provisions of the RGPD but, in no case, is it
pose as obligations for data controllers.

The good practices recommended by the CEPD, regarding the right of
information, propose that, in addition to taking into account in general the
foreseen in WP260 (guidelines on transparency), when carrying out the
processing of personal data involving automated individual decisions
or profiling, the data controller must provide information
significant on the applied logic, so that, as the CEPD exposes,
recommends that "instead of offering a complex mathematical explanation of
how algorithms or machine learning work, whoever is responsible for
treatment should consider the use of clear and comprehensive ways to offer
information to the interested party, for example :" (and here we add that it is
exclusively of some orientations, since they are only some examples):

the categories of data that have been used or will be used in the preparation of
profiles or the decision-making process; (and here we add, that I don't know
refers to the detail of all the data that will be used)
the reasons why
these categories are considered relevant;
how the profiles used are created
in the automated decision process, including statistics used in the
analysis;
  why this profile is relevant to the decision process
automated; and how it is used for a decision regarding the data subject

It should be noted that these recommendations do not apply in their entirety to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/133

treatment affected by this Sanctioning Procedure since the object
of the Motion for a Resolution refers exclusively to the preparation of profiles,
not including decision-making based solely on treatment
automated that may produce legal effects on CPC clients or that
can significantly affect similarly since the purpose of profiling is not
is another to select customers to address offers of products and services, for
therefore, a purely commercial purpose and that, in any case, the fact that a
client is not included in a commercial campaign does not imply, in any way, that
is automatically excluded from the possibility of contracting or using the products or
services offered by CPC to some of its clients since it always has the
option to contact CPC for the purpose of being interested in or requesting the service or product
that is of your interest.

As can easily be gleaned from the information that the CEPD recommends
that are provided to the interested parties, it has not been mentioned, in any case,
report on the "type of profile", as the AEPD claims that it should have been
compulsorily informed by CPC, always without forgetting that, in any
case, we are facing recommendations of good practices.

As regards the "Guidelines 5/2020 on consent within the meaning of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679", reference is made to the CEPD "opinion" (once again
the scope of the guidelines as recommendations and criteria for
assist compliance) that at least the following information is required to
obtain valid consent:

i.
ii.

iii.
IV.
v.

saw.

 the identity of the data controller,
 the end of each of the processing operations for which

ask for consent,

 what (type of) data will be collected and used,
 the existence of the right to withdraw consent,
 information about the use of data for automated decisions,
in accordance with article 22, paragraph 2, letter c), when applicable, and
 information about the possible risks of data transfer due to
to the absence of a decision of adequacy and adequate guarantees, as
as described in article 46,”

Here we do not find any reference to that must be informed of the "type of
profile" referred to by the AEPD in the Resolution Proposal as a deficiency of the
information provided by CPC to its clients.

Finally, it affirms that it has analyzed documents published by the AEPD in relation to
to treatments involving the use of artificial intelligence, including
reference to the use of such techniques for profiling and the result has been
that neither in the document dedicated to the "Adaptation to the RGPD of treatments that
incorporate Artificial Intelligence" (February 2020), nor in the "Requirements for Audits
Treatments that include AI", you can find information on the types of
profiles that could be developed, nor is reference made, when
address issues related to the information to be provided to interested parties,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/133

that the "type of profile" is an issue that should be reported on in an
specific to stakeholders.

Therefore, with regard to the aforementioned lack of information on the "type of profile",
we cannot agree that it is an information deficiency that may have
legal effects, since it is not obligatory to provide such information in
relation to the right to information, without prejudice to the fact that, based on the right to
access could be provided such information, everything and that is not the assumption
object of the Resolution Proposal. To all this must be added that there is no
classification or catalog of types of profiles to apply, so that different
managers could refer to the same profile in different ways, still creating
more confusion in stakeholders; Therefore, the absence of such information does not
can be considered an informational deficiency that leads to the conclusion that the
information provided by CPC is incomplete and insufficient and, consequently,
such circumstance cannot be used as a basis for declaring an infraction, nor the
illegality of consent.

Continuing with the treatments whose purpose is the "analysis, study and follow-up
for the offer and design of products and services adjusted to the client", it is affirmed by
part of the AEPD that the purpose is not indicated in the treatments of letter a) and b) of the
number 1. (according to the structure used in the "GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE
APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT). Nor can we share such a conclusion
since the main purpose is reported, which is none other than the "analysis, study
and follow-up for the offer and design of products and services adjusted to the profile of the
client", along with a group of treatment operations that are carried out
carried out to analyze the risks and segment customers based on their data
personal, for the purpose of:
"study products or services that can be adjusted" to the profile of the clients of
CPC and specific commercial or credit situation, for the purpose of "making offers
commercial'
"monitor the products and services contracted"

The AEPD, in its guide "Risk management and impact assessment in treatment of
personal data" (June 2021), states that, when accurately determining the
purposes of processing personal data, it is possible to confuse the "purpose
last of the treatment" with measures or processes (treatment operations) that are
carried out in an instrumental way to achieve the purpose proposed by the
responsible for the treatment.

The ultimate purpose of the treatment object of the Resolution Proposal is none other than the
"Analysis, study and monitoring for the offer and design of products and services
adjusted to the client", so that, to achieve this purpose, CPC has decided
jointly, within the framework of co-responsibility of the aforementioned treatment, carry
carry out various processing operations to achieve certain objectives
intermediates. or, in his case, he has used what are still instrumental means
to achieve the ultimate goal of treatment.

As a whole, CPC specifies and informs both of the main purpose pursued
as well as everything that implies the use of the personal data of its clients to
achieve such an end, in sufficient detail to be understood by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

64/133

customers, without causing them the typical information fatigue due to excess information
without real relevance to authorize the use of your personal data.

There is no doubt that, as a result of the information that CPC provides to
your customers, they know that their data will be used to offer them products
of CPC based on your profile. We do not understand what doubts the way in which
that the purpose has been informed; nor has the AEPD transmitted with
clarify what is not understood or what could cause confusion for customers of
CPC in relation to the use that will be made of their data, if they consent to it.

Clients know that for CPC to send them commercial offers, always prior
consent, a profile will be created with your personal data, which includes
assess your risks, so that the product offering is suitable for your
financial capacity, which also implies that CPC takes into account what
characteristics have the products and services that you have already contracted (follow-up
and incidents).

Of course, any process that involves transferring information to a third party, in
this case customers, is likely to be improved, both in the expression itself and
in the techniques to be used to inform in the clearest and most efficient way possible; but
hence to conclude that from the set of information that CPC provides to its
clients derive deficiencies of such magnitude that they imply that the information is
incomplete and insufficient there is an extraordinary margin of discretion on the part
of the Agency, especially when it has not demonstrated, in any case, that the
information about the end of the treatments is incomplete or insufficient, limiting
to say that it is, without further argument, or at least not being adjusted their
arguments to law, as has been shown in these
allegations, demanding informative content in relation to transparency and
right to information that neither the RGPD nor the LOPDGDD requires, and that neither
they are only included in the CEPD recommendations.

Therefore, the information that has been provided to its clients by
CPC in relation to the treatments of "analysis, study and monitoring for the offer
and product design", complies with the obligations of transparency and information
provided for in the regulation, this being complete and sufficient for customers to be
aware of what use is going to be made of their personal data, as it has been
been revealed in the set of previous allegations, although, as
as already alleged to the Start Agreement, in the new "Privacy Policy" of the Group
CaixaBank, under the heading "A. Analysis of your data for the preparation of profiles
to help us offer you products that we think may interest you" has been
proceeded to incorporate improvements in relation to the information provided to the
stakeholders, precisely derived from the incidence that the AEPD is having
through the exercise of its sanctioning power in the CaixaBank Group.

Regarding the rest of the treatment operations that are carried out for the
"Analysis, study and monitoring for the offer and design of products and services
adjusted to the client's profile" (letters b, c, d and e), on which the AEPD maintains that
the categories of data used are not reported. In the initial agreement, the AEPD
maintains that the interested party cannot know the data that will be processed for the
profiling since the information provided includes data that is not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/133

are going to be subject to such treatment and, however, according to the AEPD, they are not informed
of the treatment of other data that will be the object of the same. reiterate here the
allegations made to the initiation agreement that the categories of data
object of the treatment are not among the minimum information described in the
article 13 of the RGPD so that the consent is informed and that despite not being
mandatory to inform about it the information provided as a whole does allow
know the data to be processed for profiling.

The AEPD, in relation to the configuration of the mechanism for the provision of
consent, states that "it has not been foreseen that the interested party expresses his option
about all the purposes for which the data is processed. It is discussed in section (i) of
treatments for "the offer and design of products and services adjusted to the profile of
client", assuming that in itself already includes three different purposes"; in this
sense, we refer to what has already been expressed in regard to the ultimate goal of
treatment and the necessary distinction, in the opinion of the AEPD, with respect to
different operations or processes that are carried out instrumentally or
as intermediate goals.

As we argued at the time, "consent is only requested with the
purpose of studying products or services that could be adjusted to the profile or
specific commercial or credit situation of the clients to send them offers
commercial adjusted to your needs and preferences.'

To what has already been alleged in relation to obtaining consent in the written
response to the Initiation Agreement and the confusion arising from an error in the clause
informative, we would like to add that such a circumstance is not due, in any case, to a
intention to hide information or confuse CPC clients, or any other type
of intentionality of CPC to fail to comply with its obligations in terms of protection
of data, not concurring the necessary requirement of guilt to be able to impose
an administrative sanction since, as the AEPD knows, the criterion
jurisprudence that any sanction should be ruled out regardless of conduct
faulty or negligent; so we want to show that, in no case,
CPC has sought a result of disinformation, concealment or generation of
confusion in their clients, considering that such consequences have not occurred,
since no complaints have been raised by their clients in this regard-,
starting the entire Sanctioning Procedure from a discretionary assessment, therefore,
neither substantiated nor accredited from the AEPD, insofar as the information
provided in relation to the treatments is not sufficient or clear, from which
would lead to an uninformed obtaining of consent, an opinion that we cannot
share, and that our clients have not formally raised either, not even in
the origin claim of this Sanctioning Procedure.

The AEPD refers in its Resolution Proposal to the changes introduced
in the Privacy Policy of the CaixaBank Group which, among other issues, adapts n
the information on the treatments to the requirements of the AEPD and try to
improve the information provided to CPC clients. To the AEPD such
changes do not satisfy him either, stating that they do not meet the demands
imposed by the data protection regulations, in particular with regard to the
treatment based on consent, identified as "analysis of your data
for the elaboration of profiles that help us to offer you products that we believe that
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/133

may interest you", which corresponds to the treatment object of the Proposal of
Resolution.

To reach the above conclusion, the AEPD has limited itself to analyzing a paragraph of the
new Privacy Policy, specifically the following: "Through this treatment
We will analyze your data to try to deduce your preferences or needs and thus
be able to make commercial offers that we believe may be of more interest than
generic offers from which it states that it only contains generic expressions,
that:
“they do not identify what kind of preferences or needs it refers to” “or what kind of
offers may give rise" "without being informed of the type of profile that
is going to take place.

It is simply unheard of for such informative content to be required. With respect to
"type of profile" we have already extended enough to show that it is not
It is information that CPC is obliged to provide to meet the
requirements of the data protection regulations and that, in addition, not only form
part of the recommendations made by the CEPD.

As the AEPD must know, profiling is still an activity
dynamic in terms of the results it can give. In this case, the "needs and
preferences" can be changeable, depending on many variables in the environment.
Of course, despite this, it is more than reasonable to think that it is, in any case,
of needs and preferences linked to the products and services offered by CPC,
that are perfectly delimited in its portfolio of products and services and in the
company's own corporate purpose, and which are known by its customers, since they are
They advertise through different media.

Consequently, it does not appear that detailing such "needs and preferences" can
provide anything relevant to CPC clients within the framework of a Policy of
Privacy, as long as they are aware of what the business activity of CPC is, as well
such as the products and services it can offer. In any case, it does not provide the
AEPD any legal basis to demand such specification since it does not refer to the
legal precept or recommendation that allows you to conclude that they should be detailed
such "needs and preferences that we insist can be deduced with character
overview of the relationship that CPC establishes with its clients.

In the same way, it happens with the alleged lack of information regarding the fact that
reports the "type of offers" that can be made to customers, which is
evident that they will be changing in terms of the type of offer and content, but that,
as it cannot be otherwise, they will always be related to the activity
CPC business. In this section, once again, the conclusion of the AEPD is
absolutely discretionary since it does not refer to the legal precept or the
recommendation that allows you to conclude that the u types of offers should be detailed",
which obviously will be commercial offers regarding the products and services of
CPC, something that is so obvious to CPC clients that it causes a lot of
surprise that the AEPD cannot understand and chooses to ask for a detail that the only thing
What I would do would be to add changing and unnecessary information in the framework of a
Privacy Policy. A different question would be that, faced with a right of access or
even a query to CPC by their clients, at any time they can be
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/133

provide more detailed information adapted to the reality of the moment in which
such request for information is made.

To all this it should be added that it is surprising that the AEPD has supported its analysis
exclusively in a paragraph of the aforementioned policy; maybe with a reading
complete and systematic could improve their perception of the contents of the new
CaixaBank Group Policy, which undoubtedly complies with the requirements imposed by
data protection regulations regarding transparency and information.

Therefore, we cannot agree that, in the words of the AEPD, the new
Privacy Policy: "also does not meet the requirements imposed by the regulations of
Data Protection "

We must state that, notwithstanding the negative assessment made by the AEPD of
the Privacy Policy based on the analysis of a single paragraph thereof, in addition
refers to the fact that such a policy is not sufficient to consider as remedied
the deficiencies observed in the Initiation Agreement, based on the fact that the
"GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT REQUEST" does not
reflect such changes, ignoring the difficulties that such changes may entail.
in complex organizations such as CPC, which must analyze and assess
meticulously the moment and way in which the opportune
modifications, in particular when they affect the relationship with its clients, and that
have an impact on both information systems and operating procedures
of the organization, and even in compliance with other regulations that affect its
business activity. In this sense, it should be added that the CPC is
designing the necessary adaptations derived from the new Privacy Policy
of the CaixaBank Group. Furthermore, there is the aggravating circumstance that the AEPD forgets
complete that there is already a sanctioning procedure followed against CaixaBank, which
affects this specific treatment (to the point that it has been alleged that there is a
violation of the non bis in idem principle) since it is carried out under
co-responsibility, which implies that changes must be coordinated with all
co-responsible since it is a configured and determined data treatment of
jointly, in particular as regards their ends and means.

With regard to the existence of a communication of data to the companies of the group,
We must point out that the AEPD should update the formulas it uses in its
writings, in particular those related to the resolutions since it affirms that such
communication of data to group companies, as it is an end in itself,
textually says that "it requires a manifestation of will of the interested party for the
that he agrees that it can be carried out"; so that for the AEPD the
Consent is still the only basis of legality that protects a communication of
data to third parties when it is well known that the RGPD does not establish as the only basis
legal for the communication of data to third parties the consent of the interested party,
being able to use, as long as it is appropriate, any of the conditions of legality
provided in article 6 of the RGPD, therefore, not only through consent,
concurring, once again, the lack of rigor of the AEPD in this Procedure
Punisher when in this matter he is relying on the provisions of article
11.1 of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on Data Protection of
Personal Character, which provided that: "The personal data object of the
treatment may only be communicated to a third party for the fulfillment of purposes

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/133

directly related to the legitimate functions of the assignor and the assignee with
the prior consent of the interested party

Having said the foregoing, we reiterate what has already been alleged in that there is no communication of
data to third parties as long as there is a co-responsibility regime between various
companies of the CaixaBank Group, which is based precisely on factual elements
for which formal measures are now being adopted; hence it turns out
place and irrelevant to refer to the co-responsibility agreement provided
lacks date and signature since it is a subsequent action of formalization of a
factual situation, which is also linked to regulatory requirements, as already
has alleged.

Although it has been included in the Motion for a Resolution, we also transfer here the
Reminder of Guidelines 7/2020 on controller and processor
in the RGPD, while the CEPD considers that: "The evaluation of co-responsibility
should be carried out on the basis of a factual, rather than formal, analysis of the
real influence on the purposes and means of the treatment. all provisions
existing or planned should be verified taking into account the circumstances of
fact relating to the relationship between the parties to which it adds that a merely
formal would not be enough. It is surprising that the first assessment of the AEPD for
ruling that there is no co-responsibility is to say "that the agreement of
co-responsibility provided lacks date and signature and, consequently, of validity
any", therefore, prioritizing for the AEPD the formal element, separating from the
opinion of the European data protection authorities, despite the fact that the AEPD
It is part of the CEPD.

Certainly the CEPD, for the sake of legal certainty and in order to guarantee the
transparency and accountability, given that the GDPR does not specify the way that
should take the co-responsibility agreement, recommends that such an agreement be
formalized by means of a binding instrument, which seems to us to be a good
recommendation (remember that the guidelines do not impose legal obligations); for
that the CaixaBank Group and, consequently, CPC forming part of it, has
elaborated an agreement for this purpose, following such recommendation that, in no case,
assumes that the co-responsibility regime does not exist due to the fact that it is not
signed, as affirmed by the AEPD.

Additionally, and taking into account that the existence of co-responsibility does not
depends on such signature, as the CEPD believes, it is consistent with the situation
not yet signed, as long as the existence of such a regime of
co-responsibility is being questioned by the AEPD (although there is no
provided any evidence of it, rather than his opinion), as well as timely and legitimate
that the signing of the same depends on how it is finally resolved, now already on track
jurisdictional, the sanctioning procedure against CaixaBank that affects the same
processing of personal data object of the Resolution Proposal that is the origin
of this brief of allegations by CPC and that is carried out based on a
co-responsibility that, in the opinion of the AEPD, does not exist.

In the first part of this writing, allegations and statements have already been made in
regarding that the treatment object of the Resolution Proposal is carried out
carried out under co-responsibility, for which the intended communication of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/133

data to third parties raised by the AEPD does not exist; Therefore, it cannot be declared
any infringement in this regard. As we said, we refer to the pleadings already
made in this and previous writings, showing that the AEPD has
limited to denying that such co-responsibility exists, without providing any element, or
factual or legal, that supports such an assertion, reversing the burden of proof that
there is co-responsibility in CPC and in the CaixaBank Group, when it should be the
AEPD who provides evidence on the non-existence of such co-responsibility

Consequently, we cannot agree that the co-responsibility regime that
affects the treatment object of the Resolution Proposal does not exist by the mere fact
that it has not yet been signed. There are numerous factual elements presented,
both by CPC and by CaixaBank, which show that the treatment of
customer profiling to send them commercial offers is carried out on a
co-responsibility despite the fact that the AEPD issues an opinion to the contrary
substantiated. Therefore, it cannot be considered that there is a communication of data through
third parties in this case.

Regarding the affirmation of the AEPD that the consent given for the
profiling purposes is not in accordance with the provisions of article 4.7 of the RGPD,
we refer to and reiterate the allegations already made to the Initiation Agreement,
remembering what has already been stated in this Letter regarding the fact that there is no
multiplicity of purposes that have not been specified but a purpose
principal and a set of complementary or instrumental operations to
achieve the ultimate goal, operations that have been properly reported, otherwise
Thus, the AEPD would not have been aware of them, all of this without prejudice to the
non-substantial errors that may have been made in the conditions and policies
whose correction is being designed by the CaixaBank Group, while
there is a co-responsibility regime regarding the treatment object of the
Resolution Proposal. Of course, we must insist on the consideration that they must
have the CEPD's recommendations, insofar as they are an opinion, for
course authorized, which should not be confused with the obligations arising from
the data protection regulations, collected in general in the RGPD and, in
your case, in the LOPDGDD; so that the minimum content of information
required by the regulation are attended by CPC, notwithstanding that this (CPC)
considers of interest to attend, as it does, to the recommendations and good practices
proposed by the European data protection authorities, insofar as this results in
in improving the information that its clients receive in relation to the use of their data
personal by CPC.

As already stated in our arguments, we do not agree with the
conclusion of the AEPD that non-compliance with article
6.1 of the RGPD by CPC regarding the treatment object of the
Resolution Proposal. In our opinion, the legal foundations developed
by the AEPD do not sufficiently prove such non-compliance, or not to the extent that
intends to give the AEPD; That is why, in order to guarantee the defense of the
interests of CPC, we consider it appropriate to refer to and analyze the factors
which, according to the AEPD, influence the determination of the amount of the fine
proposed administration.

In the first place, we would like to express some general questions that we

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/133

seem relevant with respect to the use of graduation criteria for the sanction. on trial
this part, there has been a clear separation from the administrative precedent
since article 35.1 c) of the LP ACAP establishes that the acts that separate from the
criterion followed in previous actions must be motivated. This precept puts
manifest that the AEPD must expressly justify its changes in criteria since
that the principle of equality leads to the fact that "the Administration must maintain in its
resolutions an equal criterion when it comes to identical or similar cases” (Sic.
STSJ of Catalonia, of January 15, 1999), this would affect a substantial change in
the amount of the administrative fines, which has not been sufficiently accredited and
which has no basis, as will be seen, in the fact that the RGPD has modified
the amounts of the administrative fines.

In this sense, the PS 0070/2019 serves as an example where acts are sanctioned
similar in relation to the obtaining and granularity of the consent of the
stakeholders, in which a different application of the criteria that allow
graduate the sanction, being, in both cases, financial entities, but with different
volumes, both in number of interested parties and in business volume, among others.

Thus, while in the Resolution Proposal the AEPD estimates that the
following graduation criteria:
The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operations in question.
The intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction.
The high link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
The condition of large company of the responsible entity and its volume of business.
The high number of data and treatments that constitute the object of the file.

The high number of interested parties.

In PS 0070/2019, we insist, regarding very similar acts charged against
an important financial institution at the state level, surprisingly only
take into account two graduation criteria, compared to the 6 of the Proposal for
Resolution:
The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operations in question;
The intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction.
It is clear, then, in an obvious and objective way, that a
unequal treatment when establishing the amount of the administrative fine.

Regarding the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operations in question,
affirms the AEPD that it is the result of the procedure designed by CPC for the
collection of consent in order to create profiles to direct offers
commercial to its clients, we remind you again that the treatment is carried out in
co-responsibility regime and that, therefore, such procedure has been designed
jointly within the framework of the Caixa Bank Group.

The AEPD forgets to assess that, in any case, we start from a procedure
designed and implemented; that is, it has been the object of analysis and reflection
precisely to respond to the requirements of the regulations for the protection of
data. It would seem that the fact of having a procedure would imply a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/133

aggravating circumstance, implying that the non-existence of such a procedure might have
led to not apply such an aggravating circumstance, an incongruous situation in light of the principle of
proactive responsibility established by the RGPD.

In addition, the AEPD states that the aforementioned treatment "involves a significant risk
for the rights of the interested parties, taking into account the especially
intrusive of such data processing' In this case, the AEPD does not argue in what
what this "significant risk" consists of, it only affirms it and adds that it is especially
intrusive, also without any reasoning, which leads to the question that if sending
of commercial communications to clients is especially intrusive' what
processing of personal data will not be particularly intrusive.

We insist that this is not a case in which CPC has dispensed
radically from the obligations related to obtaining consents,
without prejudice to the fact that the AEPD considers that it would be necessary to correct certain
issues, which could lead to improvements in the way data is collected.
consents. The evidence is that there is a procedure designed with the
willingness to comply with data protection regulations. In this sense, it is
of interest what is expressed in the Guidelines on the application and setting of fines
administrative provisions for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 253) which indicates that "more than
be an obligation of result", these provisions introduce an obligation of
media; that is, the person responsible for the treatment must carry out the evaluations
necessary and reach the appropriate conclusions. Therefore, the question to which
supervisory authority must answer is to what extent the data controller
"did what could be expected to do" having regard to the nature, purposes or
the scope of the treatment operation, in light of the obligations imposed by the
Regulation". The AEPD has not assessed, at any time, whether there have been
efforts to comply, everything and that it has become clear that indeed, from
Before the full requirement of the RGPD, both CPC and the CaixaBank Group have
dedicated human and material resources to adapt to the requirements of the regulations
of data protection.

On the intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction, says the
AEPD that "the defects indicated in the procedure through which the
consent of their clients, given their evidence, they should have been warned and avoided
when designing said procedure by an entity with the characteristics of CAIXABANK
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.

We cannot disagree more with the formulation made by the AEPD for the
application of this criterion, above all because it leaves in the air whether the AEPD considers that
the behavior of CPC is intentional or negligent, a very relevant difference as
We imagine that the AEPD will agree, to which we must add that, for
discounted, in no case has CPC considered intentionally failing to comply,
nor systematic, as the AEPD seems to suggest, with its obligations in terms of
personal data protection.

And, furthermore, in our opinion, CPC has acted diligently, establishing since
initiate clear procedures in relation to the information made available to the
clients and the procedures for obtaining their consent. CPC

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/133

has a desire for continuous improvement and transparency, not to hide or generate
confusion in its clients, a fact that is reflected in the evolution of the documents and
mechanisms used, and also in the improvement of the information contained in the
themselves.

With regard to the high link between the offender's activity and the performance
of personal data processing, nor do we agree that it results from
application to the case of CPC. The AEPD states something obvious, such as that "operations
that constitute the business activity carried out by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A. U. as an entity dedicated to the commercialization of
credit or debit cards, credit accounts and loans, involve operations
of personal data processing". We do not understand what value such an affirmation has in
in relation to the application of this aggravating circumstance as applied by the AEPD because, in
our opinion, is separated from the intention of the legislator, which is aimed at considering
aggravating the fact that the processing of personal data is the main activity
of a business nature, not that it is an instrument; hence it refers to "high
bonding", otherwise one would conclude that the mere fact of treating
personal data would always be an aggravating circumstance. If the legislator had so
intended would not have qualified that such link must be "high

Hence, we affirm that, in no case, the main activity of CPC is the
treatment of personal data of its clients, since data is used
personal in what is necessary for the development of its main activity of
business, nor that it benefits directly or indirectly in terms
economics of the commercialization of the personal data of its clients; no
We believe that the fact that, as the AEPD argues, "among its activities
commercial is the sending of commercial communications to its customers
of third-party entities with which it has commercial agreements" is an element
definition to apply such criterion of aggravation of the amount of the administrative fine
. In summary, the AEPD does not substantiate that the aggravating high connection of the activity
of the offender with the processing of personal data is applicable
to the assumption.

If the AEPD has assessed that it applies such a criterion taking into account the volume of data
and interested parties included in its treatments, then it would be reiterating the application
of aggravating factors since it also uses individually both that of
high volume of data and processing, such as the high number of interested parties;
as we have stated, the justification by the AEPD of the high
linking the activity of the offender with the performance of data processing
personal is insufficient, we do not know if the AEPD has taken into account the aforementioned
volume of data, processing and interested parties when applying such an aggravating circumstance and if,
therefore, it would be applying the same aggravating circumstance more than once.

Regarding the criterion of aggravation due to the entity's status as a large company
responsible and its volume of business, we are surprised that the AEPD uses both the
CPC turnover, and at the same time the turnover of the CaixaBank Group; no
we can agree that both business data are used since it implies
that the same turnover is taken into account twice, since the volume of
CPC business is, in turn, included in that of the CaixaBank Group. We are surprised that
yes, in the opinion of the AEPD, there is no co-responsibility in the treatment object of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/133

resolution proposal, taking into account the turnover figure of the Group
CaixaBank; therefore, we consider that the graduation criterion would be misapplied.

We want to state that we are radically in disagreement that the AEPD does not
has identified any mitigating factor in relation to the alleged infringement attributed to
CPCs; Therefore, we proceed to identify, reiterating what was already alleged in the brief of
response to the Initiation Agreement, some of the facts and circumstances that should
mitigate the graduation of the administrative fine proposed by the AEPD.

CPC has made a significant effort in recent years —and especially
since the entry into application of the RGPD and the merger carried out on July 11, 2019—
to provide its clients with relevant information on the treatment of their
personal data appropriately. The clearest example of this initiative
constitute n the different versions of the privacy policies and clauses, made
that reaffirms the proactivity and spirit of continuous improvement of CPC.

This behavior demonstrates a clear exercise of transparency and loyalty, as well as
proactive and diligent activity on the part of CPC in relation to compliance
of the data protection regulations, in addition to demonstrating its desire to repair
potential errors, if any.

The degree of cooperation with the control authority is not valued either, since CPC has
shown, at all times, its willingness to collaborate with the Agency in order to improve
those aspects of the treatments that can be improved. As has been
revealed in this Letter, CPC has launched a series of
measures aimed at this improvement in the collection of consents. That is how you are
Circumstances must be assessed by the Agency as mitigating.

Finally, it should be remembered that both CPC and its data protection delegate
have been available to cooperate, despite the dates on which the AEPD has
proceeded to notify the most significant administrative acts of this Procedure
Penalty (end of December 2020 and beginning of August 2021) and to the
operational difficulties derived from the still active pandemic situation, having
been proactive and diligent in responding to any requirements of the
Agency. Nor has such an effort deserved to be considered a mitigating factor.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On November 6, 2018, you entered this Agency in writing
of D. A.A.A., denouncing that the entity CAIXABANK, CONSUMER FINANCE, EFC
had requested EMPRESA.1 information on the inscriptions related to its
person in the EMPRESA.2 file, without being a client of said entity, since the relationship
with it had been formally extinguished in 2014. The claim was transferred to the
Data Protection Delegate of the person in charge, a response is received in which
admits an error of a human and punctual nature, since although the claimant was a client
in the past, at the date of the claim it had already ceased to be so, however its
data was mistakenly included in a pre-granted credit campaign.

The claim was inadmissible for processing on February 6, 2019, without prejudice,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/133

as stated in the Resolution itself, that the AEPD, applying the powers
of investigation and corrections that it holds, could carry out subsequent
actions related to the processing of data referred to in the claim.

The resolution of inadmissibility for processing was appealed by the claimant, alleging that no
Being a client of the entity, it has used the asset solvency files with
the purpose of creating a profile and offering you a financial service, without requesting your
consent, estimating said resource.

SECOND: It is stated in the information provided by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER, that there has been a merger operation by absorption between
CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U., absorbed company, and CaixaBank
Consumer Finance, E.F.C., S.A.U., absorbing company, remaining, as
As a result of this operation, CaixaBank Consumer Finance, E.F.C., S.A.
subrogated by universal succession in all the rights and obligations, acquired and
assumed by CaixaBank Payments, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U., modifying its
company name to the current CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.”

This information also states that "the main activity of CAIXABANK
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER consists of the commercialization of credit cards or
debit (hereinafter called “Cards”), credit accounts with or without a card (in
hereinafter referred to as “Credit Accounts”) and loans (hereinafter referred to as
"Loans"), (all of them individually called "Product" and jointly,
“Products”), directly or through third parties –whether they are agents or
Prescribers-, with whom the corresponding agency contracts have been signed
or collaborative. Specifically: - Directly, CPC markets some of the
mentioned Products. - Indirectly, CPC markets through Prescribers
and agents.

It is understood by "Prescriptor" or "Prescriptors", those entities with which CPC
has signed a collaboration agreement, based on which they undertake to
offer its clients the possibility of contracting the CPC Products for,
mainly, finance the purchase price of the products and/or services
marketed by them (Specifiers) at their points of sale, either face-to-face
or online (for example, establishments such as ***ESTABLIMIENTO.1 or
***ESTABLISHMENT.2 and ***ESTABLISHMENT.3). In particular, the Products of
CPC marketed through Prescribers are the Cards, the Accounts of
Credit and Loans.

Agent means CaixaBank, S.A. (hereinafter, indistinctly the "Agent" or
“CaixaBank”), an entity with which CPC has an agency agreement, by virtue of the
which, CaixaBank promotes and concludes, through its channels, the CPC Cards,
as well as, where appropriate, debt refinancing loans derived from these
Cards.

It is also stated that the personal data processing activities that in the
development of its commercial operations imply the elaboration of profiles, according to the
definition set forth in article 4.4 of the RGPD, in particular with regard to the
economic situation of the interested parties, are the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/133

I

II.

“Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment of a
interested in your Request for a Product: It consists of the evaluation by
part of CPC of the Request for a Product (Card, Credit Account or
Loan, hereinafter the "Application") received from an interested party (in
hereinafter, “Applicant” or “Applicants”). This evaluation involves a
processing of personal data that is specified in the necessary assessment
of the repayment capacity or solvency of the Applicant (probability of
default risk). Said assessment is carried out, within the framework of the Application
received, in order to comply with what is established by the regulations that, in
quality of financial credit establishment and payment institution,
results from application to CPC (Prudential and Solvency Regulations and
Responsible Lending).”

“Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment in the management
of credit risk granted to customers: It consists of monitoring
of the ability to return or risk of non-payment of customers to
who CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER has granted
financing and, therefore, with which it maintains a credit risk with two
purposes:

-

-

the management of the credit risk granted to them in compliance
of certain legal obligations (specifically, the Regulation
Prudential and Solvency and Responsible Lending,);

 commercial management in accordance with the consents obtained from
the holders of the data (customers) with the subsequent purpose of
offer them products and services tailored to their needs, which
may include the assignment of “pre-granted” credit limits
(pre-granting of a loan based on the information available to the
Entity)."

I

“Analysis and selection of target audience: It consists of the analysis and selection,
prior to a certain commercial impact, of a target audience
(composed of those clients of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER that meet, where appropriate, the requirements designed to be
impacted by a potential campaign in order to offer you
Products). This treatment is carried out in accordance with the
consents obtained from the owners of the data (clients).”

 Affirms regarding the categories of data owners that are treated in the execution
of the detailed treatments, which "only treats data of interested parties that are
clients of the Entity or applicants of its Products. Does not perform data processing
about interested parties that could be called “potential clients”, understanding by
these, holders of data that do not have a current relationship with CPC or that previously did not
have requested a Product through any of the established channels.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

76/133

THIRD: The following is stated regarding the activity called "analysis of the
repayment capacity or default risk for credit risk management
granted to clients during the contractual relationship”:

1. Regarding the purposes and bases of legitimacy of the treatment. It is stated that
It has two purposes:

I

II.

“The management of credit risk granted, in compliance with
certain legal obligations of the Prudential Regulations and of
Solvency and Responsible Lending, applicable when the Product is
a credit account since by allowing the availability of credit
granted on a constant basis, this (Product) must be adapted
constantly to the updated solvency capacity of the interested party.
As stated, the enabling title to carry out this purpose, give
compliance with regulatory requirements, is the legal obligation,
in accordance with article 6.1 c) of the RGPD.

 The commercial management in the event that you have the consent of the
data owner. Said treatment foresees, among others, being able to label the
client with the purpose of granting him a "pre-granted" (granting of a
based solely on the information available to the Entity).
In this case, only the data of those clients who have
consented to profiling.”

2. Regarding the logic applied in the profiling and the foreseen consequences of
said treatment for the interested party, affirms that it uses a logic that has been
defined in the Entity's bankability process. (...).

3. Regarding the personal data subject to treatment, it is stated that they are the
following:

- Identification: DNI/NIE/Passport and date of birth.

- Financial: Internal CPC data obtained or derived from the relationship
existing contract between it and its client and consultation of solvency files and
the Risk Information Center (CIR) of the Bank of the Bank of Spain.

- Sociodemographic: postal code, country of birth and nationality, type of
housing and seniority and marital status.
 
- Socioeconomic: income and payments, employment status and profession, seniority
bank and domiciled entity.

- Others: risk score.

4. Details the following origins regarding the personal data object of
treatment indicated in the previous section:

- Data provided by the Applicant in the Product Application itself.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

77/133

- CPC data in relation to the Applicant in the event that the Applicant is already
client and provided that CPC has data on their payment behaviour.

- Data from external sources: in accordance with the regulations that result from
application to CPC as a financial credit establishment and payment institution,
also includes the following information:



Information on the consolidated group of Group entities
CaixaBank

 Result of the query to credit information systems.
 Result of the query to the Risk Information Center

(CIR) of Bank of Spain.

- (...).

5. Regarding the means used to collect consent in the event
that the treatment activity is covered by article 6.1.a of the RGPD, affirms
that the channels through which it collects the consents for commercial purposes of
Their clients are the following:

a) Through the prescribers.
b) Through your CaixaBank Agent.

a) “Through the Prescribers.

In this channel there are three (3) different forms of collection:

The first is through the employees of the Prescriptors themselves,

which, at the time of formalizing the financing contracts
with customers who want to contract the Products offered by CAIXABANK
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, they are asked about each of the
consents, to later capture the response given by you to
each of them in the Particular Conditions of the financing contract
signed for the purpose.

The three (3) tools provided by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUME the vendors of the Prescriptors so that they can carry out the
capture of the necessary information to process the operations of
financing and, therefore, also to collect the aforementioned
consents, are the Web “***WEB.1”, the collection App (its use is
carried out through a tablet carried by the vendors of the Prescriptors
that are constantly moving around the store) and the "Web Auto" (...), which are
the software provided by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER to
the Prescribers, connected with the systems of that (CAIXABANK
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER), so that its vendors process the
financing operations by entering personal data and
economic data of the clients and the contractual data of the operations (TIN,
APR, months of amortization, etc.), as well as obtain the consents, which
later they will be reflected in the Particular Conditions of the contracts
of financing that are formalized and delivered to customers.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

78/133

There are three screenshots in the file that correspond to
with these three tools. In them it is observed that it is requested the
consent for the following purposes, being able to choose yes or no in each
modality:

- “I authorize the CaixaBank Group to use my data for study purposes
and profiling”

- "I authorize to be sent advertising and commercial offers of the Group
CaixaBank by the following means”, which in turn allows consent or not by
each of the following headings):
 

- Telemarketing
- Electronic means such as SMS, email and others
- Post mail
- Commercial contacts through any channel of my manager

- “I authorize my data to be transferred to third parties with whom the CaixaBank Group has
agreements”

- “I authorize the CaixaBank Group to use my biometric data (image, fingerprint
fingerprint, etc.) in order to verify my identity and signature. This authorization
It will be complemented with the registration of the biometric data to be used in each
moment"

The file also contains a screenshot of the tool
AUTO website where you can consult more details. according to print
The detail in the file consists of the following:

“Consent and protection of personal data
The authorizations that you provide now or have previously provided may
be revoked at any time through www.caixabankpc.com/ejerciciode
Rights.
If you grant authorization (1) the offers sent to you will be adapted to
your profile
The authorizations (2) (3) (4) and (5) refer to the channels through which
You agree to be contacted by the CaixaBank group either by phone, by
electronically, by post and/or in person.
If you do not authorize any channel, the CaixaBank group will not be able to contact you to
offer you products of your interest.
If you provide authorization (6) at the time the data is transferred, you will be
will inform which third party is the receiver of your data and if you do not agree
You can revoke that authorization.
The authorization (7) is to be able to verify your identity/signature since in the group
CaixaBank uses biometric recognition methods such as systems
facial recognition, fingerprint reading and the like.”

 The second form of recruitment within this group is through the

CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER web portal enabled to process
the financing operation by the client himself, who will have been redirected
by clicking on a link included on the Prescriber's website that is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

79/133

try. Thus, for example, the interested party who decides to apply for the card (...) will initiate
the request on the Prescriber's own portal (...) and it will immediately be
redirected to the web portal enabled for this purpose by and from CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER where the entire contracting procedure will take place.

In this case, it is the client himself, through his computer/tablet, who marks
the response for each of the planned treatments, which after
will be transcribed in the Particular Conditions of the financing contract
formalized.

It is stated in the document sent to this Agency as ANNEX No. 13, the
screen that the client visualizes and in which the consents are collected
that coincide with those described above in the point relating to the channel
prescribers.

 The document sent as ANNEX 14 shows an example of how
reflect the consents granted by the client in the Conditions
Particulars of the financing contract. This document is called
REQUEST-CREDIT CONTRACT and is structured in various sections
related to personal data of the owner and co-owner, to the purchase, to the plan of
financing etc

 The SUMMARY OF TREATMENTS section of said document contains the
Next information:

“the treatments of your data with respect to which you can facilitate your
authorization in the terms established in this contract are the
following:

“COMMERCIAL PURPOSES:

Processing of data by Caixabank Payments
TO.
& Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group with
study and profiling purposes to inform you of the products
that suit your interests/needs, as well as for the
monitoring of contracted services and products, carrying out
surveys and design of new services and products.

b.
Processing of data by Caixabank Payments
& Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group with the
purpose of communicating offers of products, services and
promotions marketed by them, their own or third parties whose
activities are included among the banking, services of
investment and insurance companies, share holdings, venture capital,
real estate, road, sale and distribution of goods or services,
consultancy, leisure and charitable-social services.

Transfer of data by Caixabank Payments &
c.
Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group to third parties with the
so that they can send you commercial communications.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

80/133

Said third parties will be dedicated to banking activities,
investment and insurance services, holding of shares, capital
risk, real estate, roads, sale and distribution of goods and
services, consultancy, leisure and charitable-social services.

OTHER PURPOSES

Processing of the biometric data you provide by Caixabank
Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank Group, such as
facial image, voice, fingerprints, graphs, etc., in order to
verify your identity and signature with the help of methods of
biometric recognition.

In the section AUTHORIZATIONS FOR DATA PROCESSING
there are a series of sections in each of which, both for the holder
As for the co-owner, two boxes appear, one to mark yes and another to
mark no, the various authorizations to carry out data processing.
These authorizations are the following:

“I authorize the processing of my data for the purpose of study
TO.
and analysis by Caixabank Payments & Consumer and the
companies of the Caixabank group.

“I consent to the processing of my data by Caixabank
b.
Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Caixabank group with the
in order for them to communicate offers of products, services and
promotions through the channels that you authorize.” In this case, the boxes
yes/no are broken down for each of the following channels:
Telemarketing, Electronic means such as SMS, email and others, Mail
Postcard. Commercial contacts through any channel of my manager

“I authorize Caixabank Payments & Consumer and the

c.
companies of the Caixabank group transfer my data to third parties.”

The third way is through telephone recruitment in which

the vendors of the Prescriptors and the managers of CAIXABANK interact
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER. In this case, the Prescriber's seller provides
by phone to the manager of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER all
the customer data necessary to formalize the financing operation and
he processes it. Once the contract has been approved, the client, through the
Particular Conditions of the contract that must be signed, defines the
granting your consents by handwriting your
option on the boxes enabled for this purpose. Such particular conditions are
contained in the document sent as annex 14 described in point
previous.

a) Through your CaixaBank Agent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

81/133

  States that, additionally, CPC is the beneficiary of the consents
granted, where appropriate, by customers before CaixaBank. He claims that the collection of
consents at CaixaBank branches is carried out by interacting with the
own client with the device that the employee gives him (Tablet), pointing
your preferences in relation to data processing.

In the screen print that he incorporates in his writing, it can be seen that
request various authorizations for each of which there is the option of
Mark yes or no in the respective box. The authorizations refer, as in the
previous cases:

– To the use of the data for study and profiling purposes,
clarifying that if the offers sent to it are authorized, they will be
adapted to the profile of the interested party.

– To receive advertising and commercial offers. At this point it is also allowed

choose the channels to receive advertising by checking the respective box.

– To transfer the data to third parties with whom the Caixabank group has

agreements.

– To the use of biometric data in order to verify my identity and

firm.

6. Regarding the procedure followed to comply with the duty of
information to the interested party (articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD) it is stated that "It is attached,
as ANNEX DOCUMENT No. 12, copy of the general conditions provided
to the interested party in the framework of the contracting of a product and in which it is informed
of the provisions of article 13; not resulting from application, therefore, the provisions
in article 14 of the RGPD.”

The document contained in annex 12 called "CONDITIONS
GENERAL TERMS OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT AGREEMENT" contains various
sections, referring to section number 26 to the "Processing of data of
personal nature based on the execution of contracts, legal obligations and
legitimate interest and privacy policy”. This point is structured in turn in 10
sections. The following information is included in points 26.1 and 26.4

“26.1 Processing of personal data for the purpose of managing
Business Relations.

The personal data of the Holder, both those that he himself provides, as well as
those derived from commercial, business and contractual relations
established between the Account Holder and CaixaBank Payments & Consumer either in
the marketing of its own products and services, either in its capacity as
mediator in the commercialization of products and services of third parties (in
hereinafter all referred to as Business Relations), or of the
Business relations between CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies
of the CaixaBank Group with third parties and those made from them, are
incorporated into files owned by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

82/133

the companies of the CaixaBank Group holding the Commercial Relations,
to be treated in order to comply with and maintain them,
verify the correctness of the operation and the commercial purposes that the Holder
accept in this contract.

These treatments include digitization and registration of documents
identifiers and the signature of the Holder, and its availability to the internal network
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, to verify the identity of the
Holder in the management of its Commercial Relations.

The indicated treatments, except those that have a commercial purpose whose
acceptance is voluntary for the Holder, they are necessary for the
establishment and maintenance of Business Relationships, and
will necessarily be understood to be in force while said Relationships
Commercials remain in force. Consequently, at the time of
Cancellation by the Holder of all Business Relationships with CaixaBank
Payments & Consumer and/or with the companies of the CaixaBank Group, the
mentioned data processing will cease, being your data canceled
in accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, keeping them
CaixaBank duly limits its use until the prescriptions have expired.
actions derived from them.”

“26.4. Treatment and transfer of data for commercial purposes by
CaixaBank and the CaixaBank Group companies based on the
consent.

In the Particular Conditions of this contract it will be collected, under the heading
of authorizations for data processing, the authorizations that you
grant or revoke us in relation to:

 (i) Data analysis and study processing for commercial purposes by
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and companies of the CaixaBank Group.
(ii) The treatments for the commercial offer of products and services by
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group.
(iii) The transfer of data to third parties.

In order to put at your disposal a global offer of products and
services, your authorization to (i) data analysis and study processing, and
(ii) for the commercial offer of products and services, if granted,
shall include CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank detailed at www.caixabank.es/empresasgrupo (the "companies of the
CaixaBank Group”) who may share and use them for the purposes
indicated.

The detail of the uses of the data that will be carried out in accordance with your
authorizations is as follows:

 (i) Detail of the analysis, study and monitoring treatments for the offer
and design of products and services adjusted to the client's profile. bestowing his
consent to the purposes detailed here, you authorize us to:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

83/133

a) Proactively carry out risk analysis and apply it to your data

Statistical techniques and customer segmentation, with a triple purpose:
 

one)
Study products or services that can be adjusted to your
specific profile and commercial or credit situation, all for
make commercial offers tailored to your needs and
preferences,

2) Track the contracted products and services,

to)

3) Adjust recovery measures on non-payments and incidents
derived from the contracted products and services.
 

 Associate your data with that of other clients or companies with which you have
some type of link, both family or social, as well as due to their property relationship
and administration, in order to analyze possible interdependencies
in the study of service offers, risk requests and
contracting of products.

 

b) Carry out studies and automatic controls of fraud, defaults and incidents

derived from the contracted products and services.

c)

 Carry out satisfaction surveys by telephone or electronically
in order to assess the services received.

d) Design new products or services, or improve the design and usability of the
existing, as well as define or improve the experiences of users in their
relationship with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank.

The treatments indicated in this point (i) may be carried out in a
automated and entail the elaboration of profiles, with the purposes already
marked. To this effect, we inform you of your right to obtain the
human intervention in the treatments, to express their point of view, to
get an explanation about the decision made based on the treatment
automated, and to challenge said decision.

(ii) Detail of the treatments for the commercial offer of products and services
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group.
By granting your consent to the purposes detailed here, you
authorizes:

  Send commercial communications both on paper and by means
electronic or telematic, related to the products and services that, in each
time: a) markets CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or any of its
CaixaBank Group companies b) market other companies
owned by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and third parties whose
activities are included among banking, investment services and
insurer, shareholding, venture capital, real estate, road,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

84/133

sale and distribution of goods and services, consultancy services, leisure and
charitable-social.

The Holder may choose at any time the different channels or media by
those who do or do not want to receive the indicated commercial communications through
of your internet banking, through the exercise of your rights, or through your
management in the CaixaBank branch network.

The data that will be processed for the purposes of (i) data analysis and study,
and (ii) for the commercial offer of products and services will be:

a) All those provided in the establishment or maintenance of

commercial or business relationships.

b) All those generated in the contracting and operations of
products and services with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, with
the companies of the CaixaBank Group or with third parties, such as,
movements of accounts or cards, details of direct debits,
payroll direct debits, claims arising from insurance policies
insurance, claims, etc.

c) All those who CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or the companies
of the CaixaBank Group obtain from the provision of services to
third parties, when the service is addressed to the Holder, such
such as the management of transfers or receipts.

d) Whether or not you are a CaixaBank shareholder, as stated in the
records of this, or of the entities that according to the
regulations governing the stock market must carry the
records of the values represented by means of annotations in
bill.

e) Those obtained from social networks that the Holder authorizes

Consult.

f) Those obtained from third parties as a result of requests

data aggregation requested by the Owner.

g) Those obtained from the navigations of the Holder by the service of the
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer website and other websites this and/or
CaixaBank Group companies or mobile phone application
of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and/or of the companies of the Group
CaixaBank, in which it operates duly identified. These dates
may include information related to geolocation.

h) Those obtained from chats, walls, videoconferences or any other

means of communication established between the parties.

 

The Holder's data may be supplemented and enriched by data
obtained from companies providing commercial information, by data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

85/133

obtained from public sources, as well as by statistical data,
socioeconomic (hereinafter, "Additional Information") always verifying
that these comply with the requirements established in the regulations in force
on data protection.”

7. In the information provided by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C.,
E.P., S.A. it is stated that “the number of interested parties (clients) whose data
were treated in the development of the profiling activity associated with the
Proactive Scoring activity for commercial purposes, amounts to (...).”

FOURTH: The information provided contains the following regarding the third
activity carried out called "Analysis and selection of target audience":

"one. Regarding the definition of the logic applied in the profiling and the
anticipated consequences of such treatment for the interested party, states that "The
processing activity known as Commercial Profiling responds to the
need for CPC to analyze, select and extract, prior to its impact
commercial, the target audience to which the commercial communications will be directed
associated with a potential campaign.

  For this purpose, CPC selects and extracts the information of the clients to whom
potentially they will be sent the commercial communications of the campaign in
question.

For this, personal data from internal sources of CPC are processed.
(Host, DataPool and DataWareHouse) of those of its clients who have authorized
expressly the treatment of commercial profiling and, subsequently, they have not
revoked. About the mentioned repositories (Host, DataPool and DataWareHouse),
a list of clients is taken based on the result obtained once carried out
carry out the treatment based on the consent of the client, detailed in the section
above (“II. Analysis of the repayment capacity or risk of non-payment for the
credit risk management granted to customers”) and on said list of
clients, selection filters are applied based on identifying data such as
age ranges, language of communication, sex, location or address, with the
objective of proceeding to the extraction of the target audience to which the
Bell. Ultimately, the system generates a file with the selection of the
target audience that meets the conditions set once the filters have been applied.

It should be noted, however, that the selection criteria that, in essence,
constitute the logic applied to profiling, they do not become standardized parameters
but they are segments that vary and adjust to the needs of the
Product or characteristics associated with the commercial or promotional initiative
of which its launch is intended, as well as the type or volume of the
data that CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER has with respect to
each of the stakeholders.

For its part, the consequence that the profiling activity carried out by
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER generates on the client, it is
circumscribed to the fact that it will become, or not, part of a list that may
be potentially used in the framework of a commercial campaign.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

86/133

2. Regarding the description of the purpose of the treatment and detail of the basis of
legitimacy of article 6.1 of the RGPD on which it is based, states that
“CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER processes the personal data of
interested parties associated with the Commercial Profiling activity in order to
know if they meet the necessary conditions for their inclusion in
a potential commercial campaign and improve the impact of your campaigns
commercial. In short, although expressed in different terms, the process of
profiling linked to this treatment activity is carried out with the aim of
generate the list with the target audience that, at later times, may be
exploited to impact customers through communications with content
commercial. For its part, in terms of the qualifying title, it is the one provided for in art. 6.1.a)
of the RGPD (consent).

3. Regarding the procedure followed to comply with the duty of information to the
interested (articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD) and the means used for the collection
of consent when the processing activity is covered by article
6.1.a of the RGPD, refers to what is stated in the treatment activity "Analysis of the
repayment capacity or default risk for credit risk management
granted to clients” in which reference was made to annexed document nº12.

4. Regarding the categories of interested parties and personal data subject to
treatment states the following:

“The category of data subjects subject to processing called Profiling
Commercial is that of clients with a current contract with CPC. the category of
potential clients in no case is the object of this treatment activity”

 “The personal data subject to treatment are the following:

  - Identification: client identifier, NIF/NIE/Passport, name and surnames,
date of birth, gender, postal address, email, telephone (landline or
mobile) and language of communication.

Financial:
  contracted products and services and condition of
owner/beneficiary/proxy and the label resulting from the treatment described in the
previous section II).”

5. Regarding the origin of the personal data subject to treatment (with
indication of the basis of legitimacy that supports, states that "The origin of the
personal data object of treatment is the interested party and the
internal sources of CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, already described
in point 1 of this section (III. Treatment: "Commercial Profile"), as well as
the labels detailed in the previous section (Analysis of the capacity of
repayment or risk of non-payment for credit risk management granted to
customers). In this case, the basis of legitimacy is the consent of the interested party.
(art. 6.1.a RGPD)."

6. Regarding the number of interested parties whose personal data has been processed
in the development of the profiling activity by category (client, potential client)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

87/133

and year (2018 and 2019), points out that "First of all, it must be indicated that the numbers
reflected below refer only to the category of
clients, since in this profiling activity data of
potential clients, in accordance with what is stated in point b) of the
Preliminary Considerations. (...).”

FIFTH: It consists of the information obtained on the volume of sales of the
entity that the result of the turnover during the year 2019 is
€872,976,000. The share capital amounts to €135,155,574

SIXTH: The file shows that CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
EFC, EP, S.A.U. has modified the privacy policy on its website.

  It is stated that point 6 of said privacy policy under the title “What
treatments we carry out with your data”, indicates the following:

“The treatments that we will carry out with your data are diverse, and respond to
different purposes and legal bases:

> Processing based on consent

> Treatments necessary for the execution of the Contractual Relations

> Treatments necessary to comply with regulatory obligations

> Processing based on the legitimate interest of CaixaBank Payments &
Consumer”

Section 6.1 of said privacy policy contemplates the following treatments
based on consent:

A. Analysis of your data for the elaboration of profiles that help us to

offer you products that we think may interest you.

B. Commercial offer of products and services through the selected channels.

C. Transfer of data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group.

d

Identification of clients and signature of documentation through the use of biometrics.

In point 6.1 of the aforementioned privacy policy, the following is stated:

“TREATMENTS BASED ON CONSENT.

These treatments have your consent as a legal basis, as established in the
art. 6.1.a) of the GDPR.

We may have asked you for that consent through different channels, for example,
through our electronic channels or in any of the companies of the Group
 If for any reason, we have never requested your
CaixaBank.
consent, these treatments will not apply to you.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

88/133

  You can consult the authorizations that you have consented or denied us, and
modify your decision at any time and free of charge on the website of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer (www.caixabankpc.com) and in each of the
companies of the CaixaBank Group, or in your private area of the website or mobile applications of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and at CaixaBank offices.

 The treatments based on your consent are indicated below in order of the
(A) to (D). We will indicate for each of them: the description of the purpose (Purpose),
whether or not they are treatments carried out under co-responsibility with other companies
of the CaixaBank Group (Joint Controllers/Data Controller), and the categories of
data used (Categories of data processed).”

Below is the following information regarding the content in letter A.
“Analysis of your data for the elaboration of profiles that help us to
offer you products that we think may interest you”

Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to use the categories of
data that we indicate below, to create profiles that allow us to
identify you with customer segments with similar characteristics to yours and
suggest products and services that we think may interest you, as well as
establish the frequency with which we interact with you.

Through this treatment we will analyze your data to try to deduce your
preferences or needs and thus be able to make commercial offers that we create
that may have more interest than generic offers.

When the offers that we want to transmit to you consist of products that imply
payment of installments or financing, we will carry out a pre-assessment of solvency
to calculate the appropriate credit limit to offer you, in accordance with the
principles of responsibility in the offer of financing products required by
the Bank of Spain.

It is important for you to know that this treatment, including the pre-screening for
solvency in products with risk, is limited to the indicated purpose of suggesting
products and services that we think may interest you, and is not used, in
any case, for denial of any product or service or credit limit.

 You always have at your disposal our complete catalog of products and
services, and this treatment does not prejudge, limit or condition your access to the
same, which, if you request them, will be evaluated with you in accordance with
the ordinary procedures of CaixaBank Payments & Consumer.

We will only carry out this processing of your data if you have given us your
consent to it. Your consent will remain in effect as long as
you don't remove it.
 
If you cancel all your products or services with the Group companies
CaixaBank, but you forget to withdraw your consent, we will do it
automatically.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

89/133

Categories of processed data: The categories of data that we will process for this
purpose, whose content is detailed in section 5, are:

> data that you will have provided us

> data observed in the maintenance of products and services, with
sensitive data exception

> data inferred or deduced by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer.

 > data that you have not provided us directly.

Co-responsible for the treatment: The treatment of your data of the categories
indicated, with the purpose of analysis for the elaboration of profiles that
help offer you products that we think may interest you, they do so in
co-responsibility regime for the following companies of the CaixaBank Group:

> CaixaBank, S.A.
> CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U.
> CaixaBank Electronic Money, EDE, S.L.
> VidaCaixa, S.A.U., insurance and reinsurance
> New Micro Bank, S.A.U.
> CaixaBank Equipment Finance, S.A.U.
> Promo Caixa, SAU,
> Comercia Global Payments, E.P. SL
> Buildingcenter, S.A.U.
> Imagintech S.A.

You will find the list of companies that process your data, as well as the aspects
essentials of treatment agreements in co-responsibility in:
www.caixabank.es/empresasgroup.”

It is stated that the information provided regarding co-responsibility
accessing this link is as follows:

“To carry out the processing that we indicate below, CaixaBank and
CaixaBank Group companies will jointly process your data, deciding
jointly the objectives (“what the data is used for”) and the means
used (“how the data is used”) being, therefore, co-responsible for those
treatments (Jointly Responsible Entities).

The treatments for which CaixaBank and the companies of the CaixaBank Group
will process your data together, are the following (you can see the details of the
companies of the Caixabank Group that make up the perimeter of each of the
treatments that are carried out in co-responsibility by clicking on each of the
following links):

 Carry out the commercial activities of: (i) analysis of your personal data
for the elaboration of profiles that help us to offer you products that
we think they may interest you; (ii) commercial offer of products and services

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

90/133

through the selected channels, and (iii) transfer of data to companies that do not
they are part of the CaixaBank Group;

 Comply with the following regulations applicable to the companies of the Group
CaixaBank: (i) the money laundering prevention regulations and
terrorist financing; (ii) tax regulations; (iii) the
obligations arising from sanctions and countermeasures policies
international financial institutions, as well as (iv) the concession obligations and
management of credit operations and the consultation and communication of risks to the
Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain (CIRBE).

 Carry out the analysis of the solvency and the repayment capacity of the

applicants for products that involve financing.

In accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, the Entities
Co-responsible parties have signed a co-responsibility agreement for
certain treatments, the essential elements of which are the following:

(i) That, for certain treatments identified in the Privacy Policy,
the Jointly Responsible Entities will act in a coordinated or joint manner.

(ii) That they have proceeded to determine the security, technical and
organizational, appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
inherent to the processing of personal data subject to co-responsibility.

(iii) That they have a single window mechanism for the exercise of rights
rights of the interested parties, assuming the commitment of the duty of collaboration
and assistance in those cases in which it is appropriate.

(iv) That they comply with the obligation to respect the duty of secrecy and keep due
confidentiality of the personal data that are processed within the framework of the
reported data processing activities.

(v) Regardless of the terms of the co-responsibility agreement, the
Interested parties may exercise their rights in terms of data protection against
to each of those responsible.”

It is stated that point 5 of the privacy policy, entitled categories of data,
reports the following:

"5. Data categories

  At CaixaBank Payments & Consumer we will process different personal data
to be able to manage the Contractual Relations that you establish with us,
to carry out the rest of the data processing that derives from your condition
of client and, if you have given us your consent, to also carry out the treatment
of your data for the activities detailed in section 6.1.

To make it easier to understand, we have ordered the data we process in the
categories listed below.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

91/133

Not all categories of data that we detail are used for all
data treatments. In section 6, where we detail the treatments of
data that we carry out, you can consult specifically for each treatment
specifically the categories of data that are used, thus counting on the information
necessary to allow you to exercise, if you wish, your rights recognized by the
RGPD, especially those of opposition and revocation of consent.
The categories of data used by the different treatments exposed in the
heading 6 are as follows:

  > Data that you have provided us when registering your contracts or during your
relationship with us. These data are:









identification and contact data: your identification document, name and
surnames, gender, postal, telephone and electronic contact information,
residence address, nationality and date of birth, and language of
communication.
socioeconomic data: detail of the professional or work activity, income or
remuneration, family unit or circle, educational level, assets, data
taxes and tax data.
financial data: contracted products and services, relationship with the product
(condition of holder, authorized or representative), MiFID category.
biometric data: facial pattern, voice biometrics or fingerprint pattern.

> Data observed in the maintenance of products and services. These dates
are:



financial data: the information of the notes and movements that are made
in current accounts, including the type of operation, the issuer, the amount, and
the concept, information on investments made and their evolution,
information on financing, extracts of operations with credit cards
debit and credit, contracted products and payment history.

It is important that you know that we will not treat data observed in the maintenance
of products and services that may contain information that reveals their origin
racial or ethnic background, your political opinions, your religious or philosophical convictions, your
union affiliation, the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at
uniquely identify you, data relating to health or data relating to your
life or sexual orientation (“Sensitive Data”).




their status as a shareholder, or not, of CaixaBank.
digital data: the data obtained from the communications that we have
established between you and us in chats, walls, video conferences,
telephone calls or equivalent means and the data obtained from your
browsing our web pages or mobile applications and the
navigation that you carry out in them (device ID, advertising ID, address
IP and browsing history), in the event that you have accepted the use of
cookies and similar technologies on your browsing devices.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

92/133



geographic data: the geolocation data of your mobile device
provided by the installation and/or use of our mobile applications,
when you have authorized it in the configuration of the application itself.

> Data inferred or deduced by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer from the analysis and
treatment of the rest of the data categories. These data are:





grouping of customers into categories and segments based on their age,
assets and estimated income, operations, consumption habits, preferences or
propensities to contract products, demographics and relationship with others
clients or categorization according to the regulations on Instrument Markets
Financial (“MiFID”).
scoring scores that assign probabilities of payment or default or
risk limits.

> Data that you have not provided us directly, obtained from sources
accessible to the public, public records or external sources. These data are:













capital and credit solvency data obtained from Asnef files and
Badexcug.
data on risks held in the financial system obtained from the database
of data from the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain
(CIRBE).
data of persons or entities that are included in laws, regulations,
guidelines, resolutions, programs or restrictive measures regarding
international economic-financial sanctions imposed by the United Nations
Nations, the European Union, the Kingdom of Spain, the United Kingdom and/or the U.S.
Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
cadastral or statistical data obtained from companies that facilitate studies
socioeconomic and demographic statistics associated with geographical areas or
ZIP codes, not specific people.
digital data obtained from your browsing through third-party web pages (ID
device, advertising ID, IP address, browsing history), in the case of
that you have accepted the use of cookies and similar technologies in your
navigation devices.
data from social networks or the internet, that you have made public or that we
authorize to consult.”

CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U. states that the date
publication of the new privacy policy is dated January 18, 2021 and that said
privacy policy replaces the previous one, which had been in force since the 21st of
July 2019 until January 17, 2021.

SEVENTH; It also states in its response brief to the request for
information made during the test period that the information is provided
provided to carry out treatment for commercial purposes, previously
provided in the response to the request for information received on the 6th of
February 2020. It also states that "Although they have been planned, they have not yet been
made changes to the aforementioned information since its contribution in the
response to the request for information, pending the resolution of the request
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

93/133

of application of precautionary measures related to the Sanctioning Procedure to
CAIXABANK, which could affect the modifications of the aforementioned
documentation, planned at this time.”

It is stated that said information is provided in the document called CONDITIONS
GENERAL OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT, in whose header
The entity CaixaBank Payments & Consumer appears and the date April 10, 2020.
The content of said document coincides with the one sent after the request of the
Data Inspection carried out on February 6, 2020 as annex 12.

This document is structured in various sections, of which number 26
contemplates in different sections various aspects of data processing such
as the different treatments according to their basis of legitimacy, the exercise of rights
by the interested parties or the period of conservation of the data among others
issues. Thus, section 26.1 refers to the Processing of personal data
personnel for the purpose of managing Business Relations; section 26.3 to
processing of personal data for regulatory purposes, this
section in turn is divided into various subsections such as those relating to
Treatments for the adoption of due diligence measures in the prevention of
money laundering and financing of terrorism (26.3.1), treatment for the
compliance with financial sanctions and countermeasures management policy
International (26.3.2), communication with credit information systems (26.3.3.),
communication of data to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain
(26.3.4), etc Section 26.4 refers to the Treatment and transfer of data with
commercial purposes by CaixaBank and the companies of the CaixaBank Group based
in consent. Sections 26.1 and 26.4 are transcribed in point
6 of the third proven fact.

EIGHTH: It is stated that attached to the brief in response to the request for
information made during the trial period a document called
Framework Agreement in whose header appears “CaixaBank”, and in whose section 4.1 it is
indicates that “the person responsible for processing your personal data in their relationships
contractual and business contracts is CaixaBank, S.A. with NIF A08663619 and address at
Calle Pintor Sorolla, 2-4 Valencia. Adding the following:

“Co-responsible for treatment: In addition, for certain treatments that are
reported in detail in the aforementioned policy, CaixaBank and the companies of the Group
CaixaBank will jointly process your data, jointly deciding the
objectives (“what the data is used for”) and the means used (“how the data is used”).
data"), being, therefore, co-responsible for these treatments. Treatments for
which CaixaBank and the companies of the CaixaBank Group will treat jointly
your data is the following: > carry out the commercial activities of: (i) analysis of
your personal data for the elaboration of profiles that help us to offer you
products we think may interest you; (ii) commercial offer of products and
services through the selected channels, and (iii) transfer of data to companies that do not
they are part of the CaixaBank Group; (…)

You will find the list of companies that process your data, as well as the aspects
essentials of treatment agreements in co-responsibility in:
www.caixabank.es/empresasgroup.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

94/133

On the point. 4.5 of said document under the title "What treatments do we carry out with
your data, indicates regarding the treatments based on consent the
following purposes:

“− Analysis of your data to create profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you.
− Make our commercial offer of products and services available to you for the
selected channels.
 − Transfer of data to companies that are not part of the CaixaBank Group so that they can
make commercial offers of products that they commercialize.
− Identification of clients and signature of documentation through the use of biometrics.
− Application of personal conditions in co-ownership contracts.”

This document is not dated. It is stated in the reply brief to the
request for information made during the trial period that has been
included among the documentation sent “the information provided to the
Interested parties to obtain their consent to carry out treatments
for commercial purposes, when the consent is collected from the banking channel
(CAIXABANK). This documentation, provided previously in the course of the
CAIXABANK Penalty Procedure, was modified in March 2021, in the
framework of the aforementioned actions aimed at the implementation of the new policy
Of privacy."

NINTH: It is stated that during the trial period the following have been provided
documents:

 Screenshots in which the consent of the clients is obtained:

 A screenshot of the prescriber channel, which exactly matches the
the one described for said channel in point 5 of the third proven fact of the
this motion for a resolution.

 New office client registration screen capture (face-to-face onboarding, in the
that the following is stated: "deliver the tablet to the client so that he can complete
himself the consents” and screenshots of the new client Portal
Web (digital onboarding). In both modes, information is provided
basic for the client on the treatment of personal data indicating that the
responsible for the treatment is: “Caixabank, with NIF A08663619 and address at
Calle Pintor Sorolla, 2-4 Valencia. Co-responsible for the treatment “For
certain activities Caixabank, S.A. and the companies of the Group
Caixabank will jointly process your data. You will find the list of
companies that process your data, as well as the essential aspects of the
agreements
in
treatment
www.caixabank.es/empresasgroup.”

co-responsibility

of

in

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding the consents, it is indicated in both modalities that
“You authorize the companies of the CaixaBank group to:
Analyze your data to create profiles that help us offer you
products that we think may interest you. If we have your consent,
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

95/133

we will configure or design an offer of adjusted products and services
to your characteristics as a client, through the analysis of your data and the
profiling with your information.”

Below are two boxes where you can check yes or no. In
other sections consent is requested to communicate the commercial offer
of products and services through the channels that are selected and to transfer the data
to companies that are not part of the Caixabank Group with which they have
agreements.

Regarding the analysis treatments for profiling, it is provided
also in both modalities the following information: These treatments
have your consent as a legal basis, as established in article
6.1.a of the General Data Protection Regulation. It is reiterated to
Below is the information offered in the privacy policy relating to this
type of treatment regarding the purpose, categories of data processed and
co-responsible for the treatment. However, regarding the data
Processed indicates: “the categories of data that we will process for this purpose
whose content is detailed in section 5 of our Privacy Policy
(www.Caixabank.es/privacy policy) are: data that you will give us
provided, data observed in the maintenance of products and services
with the exception of sensitive data, data inferred or deduced by Caixabank,
data that you have not provided us directly.” not listed in any of
the screens the description of this data.

 Co-responsibility agreement.

  Said Agreement is undated and unsigned. Number 4 of said agreement,
Regarding the duration, it states that “This Agreement shall enter into force on the date
of your signature and will remain in force indefinitely, without prejudice to the revision
and necessary modifications of its terms and content for its adaptation in its
case, to the current regulations that are applicable at all times...”

Said agreement contains the following definition: “Co-responsible for the Treatment or
Co-responsible: Means those responsible who jointly determine the
objectives, purposes and means of Treatment detailed in Annex 1.” At
The aforementioned annex mentions the following treatments subject to co-responsibility
Regarding “commercial activities”:

indicated in

analysis of personal data for the preparation of profiles that

to)
help offer products that we believe may be of interest to the customer F
Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to use the categories of
data
CaixaBank's Privacy Policy
(www.caixabank.com/politicaprivacidad) to create profiles that allow users to
Co-responsible identify the customer with similar customer segments
characteristics to be able to offer you products and services that may interest you,
as well as, to establish the periodicity with which the Joint Controllers
relate to him.
Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

96/133

 Commercial offer of products and services through the selected channels.

b)
  Purpose: The purpose of this data processing is to make available to the
client communications of commercial offers related to products and services
own or of third parties marketed by CaixaBank and/or the entities of the Group
CaixaBank. These communications will only be sent to the client by the
channels that he has previously authorized us by giving his consent.
Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.

c)
transfer of data to entities that are not part of the CaixaBank Group
Purpose: The purpose of this treatment is to transfer the data of the interested parties to
entities that are not part of the CaixaBank Group with which
Co-responsible parties have agreements, with the purpose that they carry out
commercial offers of the products they sell.
Legitimizing basis: The legitimizing basis of this treatment is the consent
granted by the interested parties.

Then list the co-responsible parties, which would be the following:
CAIXABANK, S.A.
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U.
CAIXABANK ELECTRONIC MONEY, EDE, S.L
VIDACAIXA, S.A.U., OF INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE
NEW MICRO BANK, S.A.U.
CAIXABANK EQUIPMENT FINANCE, S.A.U
PROMO CAIXA, S.A.U.
COMERCIA GLOBAL PAYMENTS, E.P. SL
BUILDINGCENTER, S.A.U.
IMAGINTECH, S.A.

In successive annexes other treatments subject to
co-responsibility, whose legitimate basis is found in the fulfillment of
legal obligations or the execution of contractual relationships.



 Contract signed with the entity ***EMPRESA.3 for the risk score activity.
As indicated in said contract, dated June 2, 2020, the
contract signed on May 2, 2017, extended in turn on May 2,
May 2019 to incorporate the services listed in Annex I (which do not
Attached). CAIXABANK and CAIXABANK PAYMENTS are parties to said contract
& CONSUMER and the entities (...), designating the latter two
jointly as SUPPLIER.

 This document contains two clauses:
The first clause of said contract regarding the modifying novation does not
termination of clause 15 of the contract, replaces the aforementioned clause with effect
retroactive to May 25, 2018, with new elements related to the person in charge
of treatment, in order to adapt the risk score services to the obligations
regulations contained in the LOPDGDD and in the RGPD.

  In the second of the clauses, it is agreed to include in Annex I (Annex of
services) a clause relating to specific aspects of data processing of
personal nature of the risk score service. This clause refers to the
description of the treatment, indicating that for the sole purpose of providing the
risk score service CAIXABANK AND CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

97/133

make the following information available to the supplier “(…).” are pointed to
then the following treatments by the supplier: exploitation,
query and destruction; the typology of the data (DNI (NIE/Passport) and categories
of interested parties affected (customers, non-customer participants). Refering to
purpose of the treatment it is indicated that the provider will use the data of a
personal object of treatment solely and exclusively for the fulfillment of the
ANNEX I, not being able to use them, in any case, for their own purposes. Said annex
not attached.

TENTH: In the written response to the request for information made
during the trial period it is stated that the turnover of the Group or
CAIXABANK as of December 31, 2020 is estimated at twelve thousand one hundred and seventy-two
millions of euros.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority, and according to what is established in the articles
47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Previously, it is considered appropriate to analyze the allegations made by
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER, E.F.C., E.P., S.A.U. (hereinafter CPC) in
based on which the declaration of nullity of the proceedings is requested.

1. In the first of them, an insufficient reasoning of the initiation agreement is alleged.
 
It is alleged by CPC that there is no direct connection between the content of the claim
inadmissible and the initiation of preliminary proceedings.

This Agency cannot share such an allegation, the connection between a
claim in which consultation treatment is alleged to a system of
credit information and a commercial offer of a product, for which it has been
profiling, all without the consent of the claimant, and the initiation of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

98/133

investigation actions of the AEPD on the procedures for obtaining the
consent in the profiling procedures carried out by CPC when
that constitutes the legal basis that legitimizes said treatments.

Regarding the fact that relevant information for the defense has been omitted, since in the
initial agreement no reference was made to the fact that the interested party filed an appeal
of reinstatement to the inadmissibility of his claim and that it was estimated by the
AEPD, it should be noted that in the initial agreement no reference was made to such fact, to the
that the relevance granted by the CPC is not attributed to it, since the resolution itself
of inadmissibility of the claim, of which the claimant is notified, warns
that without prejudice to this result "the Agency, applying the powers of investigation and
corrective actions that it holds, can carry out subsequent actions related to the
treatment of data referred to in the claim”.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, said information was included in the proposed resolution
for greater clarity of the background that gave rise to the initiation of proceedings
research, so that CPC has been aware of it within the framework
of the procedure, being able to allege whatever it has deemed convenient.

2. The second refers to the alleged breach of article 55.1 of the
LPACAP, in connection with article 53 of the LOPDGDD, considering that the
data inspection has gone beyond the limits, without this being its function, by expanding the scope
of the previous investigation actions defined by the head of the body
administrative. This allegation is based on the fact that the field of investigation
determined by the Director of the AEPD refers to clients, while the document
for which information is required from CPC refers to "potential clients". It states
CPC that although the Agency acknowledges that there has been a transcription error and that
there are no such treatments, the fact that there are no such treatments does not decrease the
overreach initially raised, since although he does not know what would have happened if
such treatments had existed, “it is reasonable to think that the research
would have been carried out outside the scope specified by the Director of the AEPD”

Again, this Agency cannot share such reasoning. This agency has
acknowledged in the motion for a resolution that there has been an error of
transcription in the requirement of the Subdirectorate of Inspection by which
requested information from CPC, when referring not only to clients, but also
also to "potential customers". However, no action has been taken on
data processing not included in the scope of research set by the Director
of the AEPD, the CPC itself has stated, in the information provided on the occasion of
such a requirement, that such treatments are not carried out with "potential clients" and
Consequently, it has not provided any information in this regard. On the other hand, the
CPC's assertion that although it does not know what would have happened if such treatments
would have existed, but “it is reasonable to think that the investigation would have been carried out
carried out outside the scope specified by the Director”, lacks the most absolute
basis. In the opinion of this Agency, in no way can it be admitted that a
unfounded assumption constitutes a cause for annulment of the procedure.

3. The third of the allegations refers to an alleged violation of the
principle non bis in idem, considering that the same collection of consents
for the elaboration of profiles was investigated and sanctioned in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/133

Penalty procedure against CAIXABANK, S.A, number PS/00477/2019.
Understands that there is identity of subject, fact and foundation, since CPC forms
part of the CaixaBank group, which means that many treatments are carried out in
co-responsibility regime, in particular the treatment based on the
consent, described as “Analysis of your data for profiling
to help us offer you products that we think you may be interested in”, which
It appears in letter 6.1.A of the privacy policy of Caixabank, S.A.

This Agency cannot accept such an allegation either. The resolution of PS/00477/2019,
limits its action to certain actions of the entity CAIXABANK, S.A.,
expressly excluding “the action that may be carried out by companies that
make up the so-called "CaixaBank Group" to comply with the principle of
transparency or the specific procedures that have been enabled to collect the
consent of its clients for the processing of personal data that they carry or
intend to carry out, or in relation to the other aspects outlined.”

To this must be added that the co-responsibility regime referred to
not only is it not accredited but, in the opinion of this Agency, it is not even
admissible its existence in the present case, as will be seen later. In this
sense, it cannot be admitted that the Agency has reversed the burden of proof as
alleges CPC, it is CPC who affirms the existence of co-responsibility to exonerate
of her responsibility, and therefore it is up to her to prove her
existence.
 
On the other hand, even assuming that there is co-responsibility in the
treatment, which in the opinion of this Agency does not happen in the present case as
As indicated in the previous paragraph, the sanction for each of those responsible for
itself would not imply a violation of the non bis in idem principle. regimen
co-responsibility does not determine that all responsibility applies to a single
subject, but each co-responsible will be responsible for the part of the treatment that takes
finished. In this sense, what is indicated by the CJEU in the
Judgment of June 5, 2018, in case C-210/16. (Wirtschaftsakademie)

“… the existence of joint liability does not necessarily translate into
an equivalent responsibility of the various agents involved in a
treatment of personal data. Instead, those agents can file a
involvement at different stages of that treatment and to different degrees, so that
the level of responsibility of each of them must be evaluated taking into account
all the relevant circumstances of the specific case.”

4. Fourthly, an arbitrary action by the AEPD is alleged, proscribed by the
article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution. CPC affirms that it is an action
arbitrary that does not objectively pursue the general interest, also evidencing a
discriminatory treatment with other administrators.

It states that CAIXABANK, S.A. shared with the AEPD aspects for which now
intends to sanction CPC, requesting a meeting or contacts in order to obtain and
adopt criteria and recommendations that the AEPD would have wanted to transfer to the
In this regard, efforts that did not work despite the insistence of
CAIXABANK, S.A., therefore understands that this group adopted a diligent and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

100/133

preventive, the effect being that the AEPD has adopted an exclusively
punitive with the CAIXABANK group.

Such allegations are not admissible.
  The GDPR introduces the principle of
proactive responsibility as a fundamental element of compliance with its
forecasts, incumbent said obligation to the person in charge. As established by the
article 24 of said rule, it is up to the data controller to apply the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that the treatment is
in accordance with the RGPD, or, in the terms of recital 74 of the same standard:
“In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely measures and
effective and must be able to demonstrate compliance of processing activities with
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures”. This is not required
Agency to issue any opinion or assessment on compliance with the regulations of
data protection of the treatments carried out by a person in charge at the request of
this, except in the case of prior consultation provided for in article 36, case before
which we are not in this proceeding. On the other hand, although this
The Agency has various channels so that those responsible can present their
Doubtless, the reports that could be issued through such channels lack
binding nature, so it cannot be justified in the absence of an opinion of the
AEPD on the treatments of the person in charge, the breach of the obligations of
this.

The allegations concerning the alleged unequal treatment between
entities from one sector and another that focuses on the ex officio plan on contracting
distance in telecommunications operators and energy marketers. What
the very name of the plan indicates, its objective is remote contracting and not
only in the telecommunications sector, but also in the energy sector in the
This type of contracting is also used. The implementation of this plan
proceedings does not derive from the percentage of claims received during a year
in one sector or another, but that its realization was included in the
strategic plan 2015-2019 of the AEPD, in view of the problems that this type of
hiring raises, particularly in aspects such as identity theft or
fraudulent hiring, as the plan itself exposes. It is a
general problem, which justifies an ex officio action by this Agency and not by a
specific breach of data protection regulations by a
entity, as in the present case. On the other hand, the fact that it is carried out
carry out a plan ex officio by the AEPD does not imply that the entities of the sector
object of the same are not sanctioned in the event that a claim is received
that determines the origin of investigative actions and, where appropriate
sanctioning. In this sense, it should be remembered that this Agency has the obligation
to publish their resolutions, just by looking at the ones that appear on their website,
to verify that it does not limit its punitive action to certain sectors of activity.

CPC also bases the alleged discrimination of treatment with respect to other interested parties
in the affirmation that the resolutions of procedures are reiterated
sanctions of the AEPD in which the person responsible for the treatment is sanctioned for
violation of article 6 RGPD (vid. PPSS 00235/2019, 00182/2019, 00415/2019) and
that, taking into account the condition of a large company and volume of business,
others, the sanctions are far from reaching the economic level of the proposed
sanction contained in the Home Agreement, since they are sanctions that have ranged

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

101/133

between €60,000 and €120,000. He also states that it is not understood on what is based
the Agency to modulate the economic sanctions since the Initiation Agreement neither
motivates or minimally explains the application of the graduation criteria of the
sanction, nor the fact of deviating from them in the proposed sanction, in the case of
very similar events. He alleges that the proposed resolution has not entered into
Evaluate these concrete examples.

Nor can these claims be accepted. To determine the sanction to be imposed in
In each case, this Agency takes into account the elements established in article 83
of the RGPD, as well as those established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, said
elements, as is known, not only refer to the offending type, the condition of
large company or turnover, so the CPC claim that other
procedures in which these three elements coincide and the sanction is less,
carried out without greater precision that justifies the alleged discrimination of treatment
With respect to other interested parties, it cannot be taken into account as a cause that
determine the nullity of a procedure. However, it should be added that such
elements are the only thing these procedures have in common with the one now
processed, since the other elements of graduation of the sanction that have been
considered to determine the sanction in this procedure and the contents
in the resolutions to which CPC refers are not comparable, nor for the
nature and seriousness of the infraction, nor by the number of those affected (only the
claimant in the cases mentioned), to mention only some of the
aggravating factors taken into account in this proceeding and that were not present in the
assumptions to which CPC refers.

With regard to what was stated by CPC regarding the agreement to initiate this
procedure, it should be remembered that the initiation agreement itself lists the
circumstances that could influence the determination of the sanction. In this sense,
the agreement to initiate the procedure is in accordance with the provisions of article
64.2.b of the LPACAP, according to which the initiation agreement must contain at least:
b) “the facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible qualification and the
sanctions that may correspond, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.”
In this sense, article 68 of the LOPDGDD is also expressed, according to which
it will suffice for the agreement to initiate the procedure to specify the facts that
motivate the opening, identify the person or entity against which the
procedure, the infraction that could have been committed and its possible sanction. At
present course the initiation agreement goes even further by mentioning the possible
circumstances that could influence the determination of the sanction, always without
prejudice to what results from the instruction, which is why they are not
developed in the aforementioned agreement, although they are indicated for the sake of a better possibility of
defense by the entity against which the procedure is directed and, where appropriate,
to be able to make use of the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, paying
voluntarily and obtaining the reductions of the sanction established by said precept.
 
5.Fifth, it is alleged that CPC is defenseless by violating its presumption
of innocence, which is based on the following way "we are before the beginning of
a sanctioning procedure, preceded by a request for prior information
of February 6, 2020. Well, before the administrative deadline expired
mandatory to respond to said request, specifically, on March 3,
in an act of ISMS Forum held in Madrid, as already described in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

102/133

detailed above, the Director of the AEPD, the highest authority of the institution, and
competent person to resolve this file, publicly stated about
the existence of two or three high-impact sanctioning procedures that were going to
have a lot of media coverage in relation to the financial sector.” reiterate in
another paragraph, after considering that in accordance with articles 24.2, 103. 1
and 3 EC –and art. 6.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights-, any action
of the Public Administration must obey the principles of objectivity and
impartiality; "However, in this case, without having yet assessed the response to the
information request, since it was submitted on June 2, 2020
(almost three months after the aforementioned declarations of the Director), the
person who has to resolve, and on whom, in addition, as the highest authority, depend
hierarchically inspectors and instructors of the AEPD, far from keeping any
appearance of justice decided (publicly) that there would be a sanction, and this without just
having agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings.”

In this regard, it should first be noted that CPC's assertion that
there was a decision already taken before the procedure itself was processed
sanctioning party lacks the slightest factual support. Such an interpretation cannot be accepted.
the Director's statements made in the context of statements on the
significance of the ongoing sanctioning procedures due to the amount of
the fines, nor did it predetermine the decision to be taken in said procedures, nor much
could at least refer to an entity such as CPC, with respect to which not only
had initiated a sanctioning procedure, but had not even presented
still the documentation that later justified the opening of this
process.

It should be remembered here that, in the sanctioning administrative sphere, impartiality
of the decision-making body is linked to the right of the interested party to a process with all
the guarantees. It is guaranteed with the reasons for abstention or recusal and with the due
separation between the phases of investigation and resolution of the procedure
sanctioning, separation between phases that is scrupulously respected in all
procedures of this nature followed in the AEPD.

  For the sake of legal certainty, the grounds for abstention or recusal have been
regulated through an exhaustive list of circumstances that respond to reasons
objective, thus avoiding that the interested parties can appreciate causes of
abstention or recusal based on own or particular criteria. In our
administrative order, the appearance of partiality is estimated by the
concurrence, objectively justified, of the reasons regulated in articles 23 and
24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(LRJSP):

“Article 23. Abstention.
 
1. The authorities and personnel at the service of the Administrations in which they occur.
Some of the circumstances indicated in the following section will refrain from
intervene in the procedure and notify their immediate superior, who
will resolve the issue.

2. The following are grounds for abstention:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

103/133

a) Have a personal interest in the matter in question or in another whose resolution
could influence his; be an administrator of an interested company or entity, or have
pending litigation with an interested party.
 
b) Have a marriage bond or assimilable de facto situation and the kinship of
consanguinity within the fourth degree or of affinity within the second, with
any of the interested parties, with the administrators of entities or companies
interested parties and also with the advisers, legal representatives or agents that
intervene in the procedure, as well as sharing a professional office or being
associated with them for advice, representation or mandate.

c) Having close friendship or open enmity with any of the persons
mentioned in the previous section.

d) Having intervened as an expert or as a witness in the procedure in question.

e) Have a service relationship with a natural or legal person directly interested in
the matter, or have provided in the last two years professional services of
any kind and in any circumstance or place.”

 “Article 24. Challenge.

1. In the cases provided for in the previous article, a challenge may be filed by the
stakeholders at any time during the processing of the procedure.

2. The challenge will be raised in writing in which the cause or causes will be expressed in
which is founded”.

It is, ultimately, that the person making the decision has no
personal interest in the matter and has not intervened in the procedure as an expert or
witness, so that it can decide according to the general interest, without any type of
influence outside that interest that can lead you to decide in a certain way.
On the other hand, in accordance with the doctrine of our Constitutional Court,
that is demanded of public servants is not personal and procedural impartiality
that is required of judicial bodies, but that they act with objectivity and subjection
to the right.

Thus, in the STC 174/2005, of July 4, the following is declared: "In this regard,
recall that although this Court has reiterated that, in principle, the requirements
derived from the right to a process with all the guarantees apply to the
sanctioning administrative procedure, however, it has also been made special
incidence in which said application must be carried out with the required modulations
to the extent necessary to preserve the essential values found in the
basis of art. 24.2 CE and the legal certainty guaranteed by art. 9.3 CE, as long as they are
compatible with its own nature (for all, STC 197/2004, of November 15,
FJ 2). More specifically, and with regard specifically to the guarantee of
impartiality, it has been pointed out that it is one of the cases in which it is necessary
modulate its projection in the sanctioning administrative procedure, since
said guarantee “cannot be predicated of the sanctioning Administration in the same

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

104/133

sense than with respect to judicial bodies” (STC 2/2003, of January 16, FJ 10),
therefore, "without prejudice to the prohibition of all arbitrariness and the subsequent review
of the sanction, the strict impartiality and independence of the organs of the
The judiciary is not, by essence, predicable to the same extent as an organ
administrative” (STC 14/1999, of February 22, FJ 4), concluding that the
independence and impartiality of the judge, as a requirement of the right to a trial
with all the guarantees, it is a characteristic guarantee of the judicial process that is not
extends without more to the sanctioning administrative procedure (STC 74/2004, of 22 of
April, FJ 5)”.

 And the STC 14/1999, of February 22, states the following: "An erroneous understanding
of the content of the constitutional requirements of judicial impartiality and its
purported transfer in totum to who intervenes in the administrative procedure
sanctioning officer as an Instructor, leads the appellant to affirm the injury of his
right to a process with all the guarantees. (...) It is worth reiterating here again, as
we did in the STC 22/1990 (4th legal basis), that "without prejudice to the
interdiction of all arbitrariness and the subsequent judicial review of the sanction, the
strict impartiality and independence of the organs of the judiciary is not,
essence, predicable to the same extent of an administrative body". What of the
Instructor can be claimed, ex arts. 24 and 103 C.E., it is not that he acts in the situation of
personal and procedural impartiality that is constitutionally required of the organs
courts when they exercise jurisdiction, but rather act objectively, in the sense
that we have given to this concept in SSTC 234/1991, 172/1996 and 73/1997, is
that is, performing their functions in the procedure with personal disinterest. TO
This purpose addresses the possibility of recusal established by art. 39 of the Law
Organic 12/1985, of the Disciplinary Regime of the Armed Forces (hereinafter
L.O.R.D.F.A.) that refers to art. 53 of the Military Procedural Law, whose catalog of
causes bears, in this area, an obvious similarity, with that provided for in the Organic Law
of the Judiciary, although those listed in one and the other obey, as
exposed, on a different basis. (...) None of the reasons given can be
taken care of, not only because, in general, and as stated before, there is no
the doctrine can be transferred without further ado to the administrative sanctioning sphere
constitutional drafted about the impartiality of the judicial organs, but
because in the present case, and in attention to the configuration of the legal causes of
challenge, it is not possible to appreciate the concurrence of any element that demanded the
withdrawal of the Instructor due to loss of the necessary objectivity. not seen in
the Instructor questioned, nor has the interested party provided any justified data to the
respect, the presence of direct or indirect personal interest in the resolution of the
disciplinary record (…)”.

In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, in order to declare the nullity of the
actions for the alleged reasons, it is necessary to fully demonstrate the
concurrence of one of those reasons that could have effectively influenced
in the decision adopted by the present resolution.

It is considered appropriate to record in this act the non-attendance of any
of the causes of abstention or recusal established in the transcribed precepts,
which allows us to conclude that the alleged lack of impartiality does not exist. not interested
personnel in the object of the procedure; no bond, friendship or enmity with the
interested; nor has he intervened as an expert or witness in the proceeding.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

105/133

In the present case, although CPC alleges lack of impartiality of the body
resolution, has not formally raised the challenge of the Director of the AEPD,
acknowledging in his allegations that "he already assessed at the time that they did not attend
the assumptions of abstention of article 23.2 of Law 40/2015, and, consequently,
requesting the challenge suggested in the Proposed Resolution was not considered.”

On the other hand, this resolution is adopted in accordance with Law, according to criteria
objectives, and without the decision-making body having prejudged the matter in question
through previous formal actions or through their intervention in previous phases
of the procedure. This intervention has not taken place in any way, beyond the
adoption of the agreement to open the procedure as established by the regulations
applicable procedure.

Neither the statements of the Director of the AEPD referred to by CPC, nor
any other circumstance, have broken the impartiality of the investigating body, which has
disposed of all the powers attributed to it by the regulations in question and fully
freedom to dictate its motion for a resolution.

On the other hand, the instruction of the procedure has been in accordance with the regulations
procedural, without any irregularity being detected in the processing of the
procedure, in which, in addition, all the guarantees of the
concerned, including the presumption of innocence.

The intervention of the Director in the event held on 03/03/2020 is related,
with the adoption of the agreements to open the procedures referred to
CPC in their allegations, both from the financial sector. Reference to these agreements
as having a broad impact for the affected sectors and with media relevance has
to do with the novelties regulated in the RGPD and, in particular, those related to the
new compliance and supervision model. In relation to the latter, they highlight
the important amounts contemplated in the Regulation in order to what, how
intended by said rule, may have a dissuasive nature.

6. Sixthly, it is stated that there is a breach of the principle of legitimate expectations
in the administrative action, which is based on the fact that as a result of the complaint to which
refers to the factual background first of the initiation agreement, the AEPD gave
transfer of the same on November 29, 2018 to the Protection Delegate of
Data, and that on February 7, 2019, agreed to the non-admission for processing of the
claim filed fact that generated on CPC the legitimate confidence of its
acting in accordance with the law; months later, preliminary actions of
investigation, allegedly based on the Complaint, resulting in the
Home Agreement.

In this regard, as stated in the first factual record, the
The claim presented constitutes a fact that gives rise to the action of
investigation of the inspection, not on the specific fact denounced, but on the
way in which said entity carries out the profiling treatment in its treatments
based on consent. The decision of inadmissibility itself shows
that the AEPD can carry out other actions with respect to the treatments object
of complaint. It is thus stated in said resolution that "This is without prejudice to the fact that the Agency,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

106/133

applying the investigative and corrective powers that it holds, can carry out
subsequent actions related to the processing of data referred to in the claim.”
On the other hand, CPC forgets that the resolution of inadmissibility can be appealed by the
claimant, as happened in this case and be estimated. To this it should be added that
At no time did this Agency state that the treatments carried out by
CPC were in accordance with the provisions of the data protection regulations,
limiting itself to initially accepting the allegation that it was a punctual error,
without prejudice to the fact that the Director of the AEPD, in view of the claim, ordered
an investigation into the way in which CPC carried out the treatments of
profiled when its legitimate basis is consent.

7. The last of the allegations refers to an alleged artificial extension of
the previous actions affirming that “The previous investigation actions
agreed by the AEPD supplanted the instructor activity, having been
prolonged until almost their expiration. And that the “The Home Agreement rests,
practically in its entirety, in cargo elements collected during the phase of
previous performances.”

As stated in the ruling of the Supreme Court of May 6, 2015
brought up by CPC “Article 69.2 prescribes, by regulating the procedures
initiated ex officio, that "prior to the initiation agreement, the body may
authority to open a period of prior information in order to know the
circumstances of the specific case and the advisability or not of initiating the procedure".
The meager regulation of said period highlights that the legal purpose is limited to
frame an administrative verification activity without setting a specific deadline
of duration and without regulating or limiting the actions that the
Administration in said period. Strictly speaking, the only meaning of declaring open
a period of prior information is to legally frame an action
administrative that in any case could be carried out by the Administration under its
powers of control or supervision in the area in question. This is the
Administration can initiate ex officio procedures of a very diverse nature, among
those that are intended to verify compliance with requirements
-as in the present case- or the sanctioners, and prior to the initiation of one
of such files can carry out checks whose scope will depend on the
existing material regulation in said area, that is, of the obligations to which
the individual is subject and of the specific powers of control that are attributed
to the Administration in said matter in order to verify if there are indications that
may lead to the convenience of initiating a formal non-compliance file,
sanctioning, or of another nature. Well, if that checking activity
initial is possible under the powers of inspection or control held by the
Administration in various material fields, all the more you will be able to do it if
formally opens a period of prior information whose only meaning would be, as
It has been indicated before, framing said verification action in a legal framework
explicit."

It should be noted here that although article 69.2 of Law 39/2015 referred to in the
sentence, does not set a specific term for such actions, article 67.2. of the
LOPDGDD does, setting it at 12 months from the date of the agreement by
the one who decides his initiation; there is no consequence that the Administration does
use of all the time available to carry out such actions as long as they do not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

107/133

exceeds the same, assumption in which the expiration of the actions of
research.

As for the fact that the previous investigative actions superseded the activity
instructor does not explain CPC what specific procedure carried out within the framework of the
preliminary investigation actions is actually an administrative procedure that
should have been held within the sanctioning procedure, nor what procedure or procedures
specific of the sanctioning procedure have been supplanted by the actions
previous, nor what steps of the procedure have been avoided because of the
previous actions carried out.

On the contrary, prior investigative actions were carried out perfectly
justified, in order to achieve a better determination of the facts and
circumstances (article 67 LOPDGDD), during which information was collected
necessary for the determination of the facts, without carrying out during the course of
the same procedure any of the sanctioning procedure, which began in
based on the evidence obtained and for the sole purpose of applying the regulatory provisions
established.

During the investigation phase, a request for information was sent to CPC
requesting a list of personal data processing carried out in
development of its commercial activity that imply the elaboration of profiles,
providing the following information with respect to each treatment: definition of the
logic applied to profiling and the anticipated consequences of such processing for the
interested; description of the purpose of the treatment and basis of legitimacy in which it is
sustains; procedure followed to comply with the duty of information to the
interested; means used to collect consent in the event that the
treatment activity is covered by article 6.1.a of the RGPD; categories of
interested parties and personal data subject to treatment; origin of personal data
object of treatment; if applicable, list of managers who participate in the activity
treatment and copy of the contracts that govern the order; description of the
technical and organizational security measures applied under article 32 of the
GDPR to profiling activity; if applicable, a copy of the impact assessment of
protection of personal data and the number of interested parties whose personal data
have been treated in the development of the profiling activity by category (customer,
potential client) and year (2018 and 2019).

In view of the foregoing, it cannot be said that in this case the previous actions
were not necessary or were not carried out to collect data and evidence on the
acts committed and those responsible.

III

The actions outlined in the background of this resolution have as
purpose of analyzing the procedure for obtaining consent in the
profiling procedures carried out by CaixaBank Payments & Consumer,
E.F.C., E.P., S.A (CPC) when it constitutes the legal basis that legitimizes said
treatments.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

108/133

Therefore, the conclusions that could be derived from this procedure
they will not imply any pronouncement on other aspects related to said
treatment, such as the intervention of treatment managers, the adequacy of the
impact assessments provided to the provisions of the RGPD or the measures of
security established with respect to said treatment, nor about other treatments of
profiled whose legal basis, according to CPC, is to comply with
regulatory requirements.

IV

Article 4.4 of the RGPD defines “profiling” as “all forms of
automated processing of personal data consisting of using personal data
to assess certain personal aspects of a natural person, in particular
to analyze or predict aspects related to professional performance, situation
financial, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behavior,
location or movements of said natural person.

As all data processing must comply with the principles established in the
article 5 of the RGPD. Said article provides that “1. The personal data will be: a)
processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

In accordance with the provisions of letter a) of said precept, the personal data
must be treated lawfully. In this regard, the above is taken into account.
in recital 40 of the RGPD, according to which: “In order for the treatment to be lawful, the
personal data must be processed with the consent of the interested party or
any other legitimate basis established in accordance with Law, either in the present
Regulation or by virtue of another Law of the Union or of the Member States to which
referred to in this Regulation, including the need to comply with the legal obligation
applicable to the data controller or the need to perform a contract in the
that the interested party is a party or in order to take measures at the request of the interested party
prior to the conclusion of a contract.

The provisions of the Guidelines on individual decisions are taken into account
automated and profiling for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679,
adopted by the Working Group on Data Protection of article 29 on the 3rd of
October 2017, last revised and adopted on February 6, 2018 and
approved by the European Data Protection Committee at its first meeting
plenary, that when referring to consent as a legal basis for processing
recalls that “Profiling can be opaque and is often based on
on data derived or inferred from other data, rather than on information provided
directly by the interested party. Those responsible for the treatment that intend
rely on consent as the basis for profiling shall
demonstrate that data subjects understand exactly what they are consenting to, and
should remember that consent is not always an adequate basis for
treatment. In all cases, the interested parties must have sufficient
information about the intended use and consequences of the processing to ensure
that any consent they give constitutes an informed choice.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

109/133

Number 11 of article 4 of the RGPD defines consent as “Any
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you”

For their part, articles 6 and 7 of the RGPD refer, respectively, to the “Legality
of treatment” and the “Conditions for consent”:
 
Article 6 of the RGPD.
"one. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
terms:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the
treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting more
specifies specific treatment requirements and other measures that guarantee a
lawful and equitable treatment, including other specific situations of
treatment under Chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be
established by:

a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the data controller.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis or, in what

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

110/133

regarding the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), will be necessary for the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. Said legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the retention periods of the
data, as well as the operations and procedures of the treatment, including the
measures to ensure lawful and fair treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional
to the legitimate end pursued.

4. When the treatment for another purpose other than that for which the data was collected
personal data is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law
of the Union or of the Member States which constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard the stated objectives
in article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine
if processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:

a) any relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected
data and the purposes of the intended further processing;

b) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular by what
regarding the relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;

c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when categories are processed
special personal data, in accordance with article 9, or personal data
relating to criminal convictions and offences, in accordance with article 10;

d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;

e) the existence of adequate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization”.

Article 7 of the RGPD.

"one. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge
You must be able to demonstrate that you consented to the processing of your data
personal.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written statement
that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be presented in
in such a way that it is clearly distinguishable from other matters, in an intelligible and
easy access and using clear and simple language. No part will be binding
of the statement that constitutes an infringement of this Regulation.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

111/133

Withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party
will be informed of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. When assessing whether the consent has been freely given, it will be taken into account in the
greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the performance of a contract,
including the provision of a service, is subject to consent to the processing of
personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said contract”.

It takes into account what is expressed in recitals 32, 40 to 44 and 47 of the RGPD in
in relation to the provisions of articles 6 and 7 above. From what is stated in
These considerations include the following:

(32) Consent must be given through a clear affirmative act that reflects a
free, specific, informed, and unequivocal manifestation of the interested party's
accept the processing of personal data that concerns you, such as a
written statement, including by electronic means, or an oral statement.
This could include checking a box on an internet website, choosing parameters
technicians for the use of services of the information society, or any
other statement or conduct that clearly indicates in this context that the data subject
accepts the proposal for the processing of your personal data. Therefore, the silence
pre-ticked boxes or inaction should not constitute consent. The
Consent must be given for all processing activities carried out with the
same or the same ends. When the treatment has several purposes, the
consent for all of them. If the data subject's consent is to be given to
As a result of a request by electronic means, the request must be clear, concise and not
unnecessarily disrupt the use of the service for which it is provided.

(42) When the treatment is carried out with the consent of the interested party, the
The data controller must be able to demonstrate that the data controller has given
consent to the treatment operation. In particular in the context of a
written statement made on another matter, there must be guarantees that the
interested party is aware of the fact that he gives his consent and the extent to which
that makes. In accordance with Council Directive 93/13/EEC, you must provide
a model declaration of consent previously prepared by the
responsible for the treatment with an intelligible and easily accessible formulation that
use clear and simple language, and that does not contain abusive clauses. So that
consent is informed, the interested party must know at least the
identity of the person in charge of the treatment and the purposes of the treatment to which they are
intended personal data. Consent should not be considered freely
lent when the interested party does not enjoy true or free choice or cannot
deny or withdraw your consent without prejudice.

(43) (...) It is presumed that consent has not been given freely when it is not
allows separate authorization of the different data processing operations
despite being appropriate in the specific case, or when the fulfillment of a
contract, including the provision of a service, is dependent on the consent,
even when this is not necessary for such compliance.

It is also appropriate to take into account the provisions of article 6 of the LOPDGDD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

112/133

“Article 6. Treatment based on the consent of the affected party

1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
consent of the affected party is understood as any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which it accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When it is intended to base the processing of the data on the consent of the
affected for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

The provisions of the European Committee for Data Protection are also taken into account.
in the document “Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under the
Regulation 2016/679” approved on May 4, 2020, which updates the Guidelines
on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted by the Group
of Work of article 29 and that were approved by the European Committee of
Data Protection in its first plenary meeting. From what is stated in said
document, it is interesting here to highlight some of the criteria related to the validity
of consent, specifically on the “specific” and “informed” elements:

“3.2. Specific declaration of will

 “Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), confirms that the consent of the interested party to
the processing of your data must be given "for one or more specific purposes" and that a
The interested party can choose with respect to each of said purposes. The requirement that the
consent must be "specific" is intended to ensure a level of control and
transparency for the interested party. This requirement has not been modified by the GDPR and
remains closely linked to the consent requirement
"informed". At the same time, it must be interpreted in line with the requirement of
"dissociation" to obtain "free" consent. In short, to meet the
character of "specific" the person in charge of the treatment must apply:

i.
ii.
iii.

the specification of the purpose as a guarantee against deviation from use,
 dissociation in consent requests, and
a clear separation between the information related to obtaining the
consent for data processing activities and information
regarding other issues.

 Ad. i): In accordance with article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), of the RGPD, obtaining
of valid consent is always preceded by the determination of a purpose
specific, explicit and legitimate for the intended treatment activity. The need
of specific consent in combination with the notion of limitation of
purpose that appears in article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), works as a guarantee against
to the gradual expansion or blurring of the purposes for which the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

113/133

processing of the data once an interested party has given their authorization to the
initial data collection. This phenomenon, also known as deviation of the
use, supposes a risk for the interested parties since it can give rise to a use
unforeseen of the personal data by the person in charge of the treatment or of
third parties and the loss of control by the interested party.

If the data controller relies on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), the
Interested parties must always give their consent for a specific purpose for the
data processing. In keeping with the concept of purpose limitation,
with article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), and with recital 32, the consent
may cover different operations, provided that these operations have a
same end. It goes without saying that specific consent can only be obtained
when the interested parties are expressly informed about the purposes foreseen for the
use of data concerning them.

Without prejudice to the provisions on the compatibility of purposes, the
Consent must be specific to each purpose. Those interested will give their
consent understanding that they have control over their data and that these will only be
processed for those specific purposes. If a controller processes data based on the
consent and, in addition, you want to process said data for another purpose, you must obtain the
consent for that other purpose, unless there is another legal basis reflecting
better the situation.
(…)
 Ad. ii) Consent mechanisms should not only be separated for the purpose of
to meet the “free” consent requirement, but must also comply with
that of "specific" consent. This means that a data controller
seeking consent for several different purposes should facilitate the possibility of
opt out for each purpose, so that users can give specific consent
for specific purposes.

Ad. iii) Finally, data controllers must provide, with each request
separate consent form, specific information about the data to be processed
for each purpose, in order that the interested parties know the repercussion of the
different options they have. In this way, interested parties are allowed to give a
specific consent. This issue overlaps with the requirement that
managers provide clear information, as stated above in
section 3.3”.

3.3 Manifestation of informed will.

“The GDPR reinforces the requirement that consent must be informed. From
In accordance with article 5 of the GDPR, the transparency requirement is one of the
fundamental principles, closely related to the principles of loyalty and
legality. Providing information to data subjects before obtaining their consent is
essential for them to make informed decisions, understand what
are authorizing and, for example, exercising your right to withdraw your consent. If he
controller does not provide accessible information, user control will be illusory and
consent will not constitute a valid basis for data processing.

If the requirements for informed consent are not met, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

114/133

consent will not be valid and the person in charge may be in breach of article 6
of GDPR.

3.3.1 Minimum content requirements for consent to be “informed”
In order for the consent to be informed, it is necessary to communicate to the interested party
certain elements that are crucial to be able to choose. Therefore, the EDPB is of the opinion that
At least the following information is required to obtain valid consent:

the identity of the data controller,
the end of each of the processing operations for which

ask for consent,

what (type of) data will be collected and used,
 the existence of the right to withdraw consent,
information on the use of data for automated decisions
in accordance with article 22, paragraph 2, letter c), where relevant,
and

information about possible data transfer risks
due to the absence of an adequacy decision and guarantees
adequate, as described in article 46.”

i.
ii.

iii.
IV.
v.

saw.

1. In this so-called CPC requests consent in the various communication channels
prescribers and agents for study and profiling purposes. So the consent
is requested in the following terms: “I authorize the CaixaBank Group to use my data
for study and profiling purposes”. Regarding the information on the
purposes of said treatment, the documentation provided is that contained in the
screenshots sent and the document provided as annex 12
called "GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE APPLICATION-CONTRACT OF
CREDIT” whose content at this point has already been transcribed in the proven facts
of this resolution of the sanctioning procedure, and that, as stated,
facilitates the interested party in the framework of contracting a product.

As expressed in said document, the details of the uses of the data that are
will carry out in accordance with its authorizations is as follows:

  (i) "Detail of the analysis, study and monitoring treatments for the offer and
design of products and services adjusted to the client's profile. bestowing his
consent to the purposes detailed here, you authorize us to:

a) Proactively carry out risk analysis and apply it to your technical data

statistics and customer segmentation, with a triple purpose:

1) Study products or services that may be adjusted to your profile and
specific business or credit situation, all to make offers
commercials tailored to your needs and preferences,

2) Track the contracted products and services,

3) Adjust recovery measures on non-payments and incidents derived from
the contracted products and services.

b) Associate your data with that of other clients or companies with which you have any

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

115/133

type of link, both family or social, as well as by their relationship of ownership and
administration, in order to analyze possible economic interdependencies in the
study of service offers, risk requests and product contracting.

c) Carry out studies and automatic controls of fraud, defaults and incidents
derived from the contracted products and services.

d) Carry out satisfaction surveys by telephone or electronically with the
objective of assessing the services received.

e) Design new products or services, or improve the design and usability of the
existing, as well as define or improve user experiences in their relationship
with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group.”

In the opinion of this Agency, the information contained in the document CONDITIONS
GENERAL INFORMATION OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT AGREEMENT, transcribed above
provides the interested party with enough information so that he can know the
scope of the profiling treatments that are carried out.

In this regard it should be recalled that the Guidelines on Individual Decisions
automated and profiling for the purposes of Regulation 2016/67, by
Analyzing the relevant legal bases for the elaboration of profiles indicates the
following with respect to the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a) – Consent
“Data controllers who claim to rely on consent as
basis for profiling should demonstrate that data subjects understand
exactly what they are consenting to, and they should remember that consent is not
always a suitable basis for treatment . In all cases, the interested parties
must have sufficient information about the intended use and consequences of the
processing to ensure that any consent they give constitutes a
informed choice.”

Also the same document when referring to the rights of the interested parties,
first mention:
"one. Articles 13 and 14 – Right to be informed
Taking into account the basic principle of transparency that underpins the GDPR,
Data controllers must ensure that they explain to individuals in a way that
clear and simple operation of profiling or decisions
automated.”

However, in the present case, the interested party is only provided with information
generic information on the different profiling treatments. So the first one does
reference to the "study of products or services that can be adjusted to your profile and
specific commercial situation, to make commercial offers adjusted to your
needs and preferences. With this information the interested party cannot know
exactly what the treatment you are consenting to consists of. of such information
It cannot be deduced that the products to be offered are exclusively those of CPC,
as said entity alleges, so it could include offers from other entities of the
group or other types of products or services not related to the activity of said
entity. Nor does it appear from such information that the supply of products and
services may include the assignment of “pre-granted” credit limits, as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

116/133

as stated in the information provided by CPC to the AEPD on the occasion of the
information request made by the Inspection. Neither, as analyzed
later, you are properly informed of the data to be used for
carry out profiling treatment. With the information provided, the interested party
may know the scope of the treatment you are consenting to or the level of detail of the
profile to be elaborated nor its exhaustiveness. The same information gaps
that is provided to the interested party are observed in other profiling treatments
listed in the above transcribed information provided in said document.

CPC alleges that the CaixaBank Group has proactively verified this understanding
through studies that have involved clients, however it does not prove it.

Secondly, as the mechanism for the provision of the
consent, it has not been foreseen that the interested party expresses his option on all the
purposes for which the data is processed, it is spoken in section (i) of treatments for
“the offer and design of products and services adjusted to the customer profile”, assuming that
in itself already comprises three different purposes:

1. Study products or services that can be adjusted to your profile and situation
concrete commercial or credit, all this to make adjusted commercial offers
to your needs and preferences,

2) Track the contracted products and services,

3) Adjust recovery measures on non-payments and incidents derived from
contracted products and services.

  To this are added other purposes such as "analyzing possible interdependencies
economic in risk requests and contracting of products”, “assess the services
received” or “design new products or services, or improve the design and usability of
the existing ones, as well as define or improve the experiences of the users in their
relationship with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and the companies of the CaixaBank Group”.
The enumeration of the treatments that the aforementioned entity carries out, in reality supposes
an extension of the purposes, which in some cases are not even identified, so
the consent given cannot be considered specific as it has not been dissociated
consent requests sufficiently.

It is alleged by CPC that this confusion is due to a slight error in the clause
informative, to list treatment operations that are not carried out based on the
consent obtained for profiling; points out that this incident, after being
detected, has been corrected by the CaixaBank Group and, therefore, also by CPC,
through the preparation of a new Privacy Policy detailing
correctly and precisely the treatments carried out for the analysis and study
for commercial purposes.

However, said privacy policy, regardless of whether it is
adjusted or not to the provisions of the data protection regulations, on what this
Agency does not pronounce itself in this procedure,
 is valid from
on January 18, 2021 with no changes to other information documents

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

117/133

to the interested party, as reported by CPC in its response to the request for information
of this Agency during the trial period, in particular the CONDITIONS
GENERAL REGULATIONS OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT, to which it has previously been made
reference and that constitute the mechanism to provide information to the interested parties.

2. In the various documents in which consent is requested, it is requested
for "the CaixaBank group", which constitutes a communication of data to the
group companies, communication that constitutes a specific purpose in itself
considered, which requires a manifestation of will of the interested party by which
he agrees that it can be carried out.

It is alleged by CPC that no data communication takes place since there is
a system of co-responsibility between the companies of the CaixaBank Group, for
there must be an agreement for the joint determination of the objectives and means of
treatment object of this procedure, as provided in article 26 of the
GDPR. It is also alleged that such co-responsibility is also due to
regulatory needs. In this sense, he cites articles 29.1 of Law 2/2011, of 4
March, Sustainable Economy. and 14 of Law 16/2011, of June 24, of
consumer credit agreements.
   
In this regard, it should be remembered that Guidelines 7/2020 on responsible and
in charge of the treatment in the RGPD, adopted on July 7, 2021, indicate that
Article 26 GDPR, which mirrors the definition in Article 4 paragraph 7 GDPR,
provides that “When two or more responsible persons jointly determine the
objectives and the means of treatment, will be co-responsible for the treatment”.
In general terms, there is co-responsibility with respect to an activity of
specific treatment when different parties jointly determine the
purpose and means of this processing activity. Therefore, evaluate the
existence of co-responsible parties requires examining whether the determination of the purposes and
means that characterize a person in charge is decided by more than one party. "Together"
should be interpreted in the sense of "along with" or "not only", in different ways and
combinations, as explained below.

The assessment of co-responsibility must be carried out on the basis of a
factual analysis, more than formal, of the real influence on the ends and means of the
treatment. All existing or planned provisions should be verified against
taking into account the factual circumstances relating to the relationship between the parties. A
merely formal criteria would not suffice for at least two reasons: In some
cases, the formal appointment of a co-controller, for example, provided for by law
or in a contract, it would be absent; In other cases, it may be that the appointment
formal does not reflect the reality of the arrangements, by formally entrusting the role of
accountable to an entity that is not really in a position to "determine" the
purposes and means of treatment.

Not all multi-entity treatments result in
co-responsibility The general criterion for co-responsibility to exist is the
joint participation of two or more entities in determining the purposes and
means of a treatment. More specifically, co-responsibility must include the
determination of the objectives, on the one hand, and determination of the means, on the other.
other. If each of these elements is determined by all entities

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

118/133

interested parties, they should be considered co-responsible for the treatment in question.”

In the present case, the co-responsibility agreement provided lacks a date and
signature and, consequently, of any validity. In this sense, the agreement itself, in its
Number 6 regarding its duration states that "This Agreement shall enter into force on the
date of its signature”. In this sense, the aforementioned Guidelines 7/2020 point out that "The
GDPR does not specify the legal form of the agreement between joint controllers. In
for the sake of legal certainty, and in order to ensure transparency and accountability
of accounts, the European Committee for Data Protection recommends that said agreement
is in the form of a binding document, such as a contract or other legal act
binding in accordance with the law of the EU or of the Member States to which
that the controllers are subject to.” It should also be added that there is no excuse
the absence of signing the agreement in the supposed wait for the Agency to make a
pronouncement on the measures to be adopted within the framework of another procedure
sanctioning against another entity (CaixaBank) in case it had to be modified, as
indicated in the arguments to the initial agreement or, as now indicated in the
allegations to the proposed resolution, that said signature be made depend on the
resolve the same sanctioning procedure against CaixaBank in court.

Nor is any factual element provided that allows considering that they are determined
jointly by all group companies the purposes and means of processing
specific to which this procedure refers, that is, the operations of
profiled for the offer to CPC clients of certain products, which
are part of its commercial activity, as indicated by said entity in the
information provided.

Nor is it admissible that such co-responsibility is due to reasons
regulatory. Article 29 1, of Law 2/2011, of March 4, on Economy
Sustainable, provides that "Credit institutions, before the contract is signed
of credit or loan, they must evaluate the solvency of the potential borrower, on the
based on sufficient information. To this end, said information may include the
provided by the applicant, as well as the result of the consultation of files
automated data, in accordance with current legislation, especially in
matter of protection of personal data.” Article 14 of Law 16/2011,
of June 24, on consumer credit contracts It establishes that “1. the lender,
Before the credit agreement is concluded, you must evaluate the creditworthiness of the
consumer, on the basis of sufficient information obtained by the media
suitable for this purpose, including the information provided by the consumer, at the request
of the lender or intermediary in granting credit. For the same purpose, you can
consult the capital solvency and credit files, to which the article refers
29 of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on Data Protection of
Personal Character, in the terms and with the requirements and guarantees provided in said
Organic Law and its implementing regulations.
In the case of credit institutions, to assess the solvency of the
consumer will also take into account the specific rules on management of
risks and internal control that are applicable to them according to their specific legislation.”

From the literal tenor of both precepts it is evident that such obligations refer
at the time a credit or loan agreement is concluded, not to the activity
commercial by which an entity offers such credits or loans to its customers,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

119/133

products that these, moreover, have not requested. Not much less can be accepted
that such regulatory obligations justify a communication of data to all
companies of the group, from the moment in which the interested party consents to such
profiling treatment regardless of whether it is carried out afterwards or not.

On the other hand, as has been pointed out previously, this Agency has not invested the
burden of proof as CPC alleges, it is said entity that has alleged the existence
co-responsibility in the treatment corresponding to said entity to accredit it,
the mere allegation of its existence and the presentation of a document is not enough
lacking validity to prove that there is co-responsibility. This agency has
sufficiently clarified the reasons why it considers that there is no
co-responsibility in the previous paragraphs, so it is not a mere
unsubstantiated contrary opinion.

3. Among the crucial elements for consent to be valid, the aforementioned
Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 make
reference to the information to the interested party about what types of data will be collected and
be used.

In the information that CPC has provided to this Agency, specifically in the
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE APPLICATION-CREDIT AGREEMENT,
indicates that the personal data subject to treatment are the following:

“The data that will be processed for the purposes of (i) data analysis and study, and (ii)
for the commercial offer of products and services will be:

a) All those facilitated in the establishment or maintenance of relationships
commercial or business.

b) All those generated in the contracting and operations of products and services
with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, with the companies of the CaixaBank Group or with
third parties, such as account or card movements, receipt details
direct debits, payroll direct debits, claims arising from insurance policies,
claims etc

c) All those that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or the companies of the Group
CaixaBank obtain from the provision of services to third parties, when the service has
as recipient to the Holder, such as the management of transfers or receipts.

d) Whether or not you are a CaixaBank shareholder, as recorded in the records of
this, or of the entities that, in accordance with the regulations of the market of
securities must keep records of the securities represented by means of
book entries.

e) Those obtained from the social networks that the Holder authorizes to consult.

f) Those obtained from third parties as a result of requests for aggregation of
data requested by the Owner.
 
g) Those obtained from the Holder's navigation through the web service of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

120/133

CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and other websites of this and/or of the companies of the Group
CaixaBank or CaixaBank Payments & Consumer mobile phone application and/or
the companies of the CaixaBank Group, in which it operates, duly identified. These
Data may include information related to geolocation.

h) Those obtained from chats, walls, videoconferences or any other means of
communication established between the parties. The Holder's data may be
complemented and enriched by data obtained from companies that provide
commercial information, by data obtained from public sources, as well as by data
statistical, socioeconomic (hereinafter, "Additional Information") provided
verifying that these comply with the requirements established in the current regulations
on data protection.”

From this information it follows that the interested party cannot know the data that
are going to be processed for profiling, the information provided includes data that,
in accordance with the information provided on the data to be used for the treatment
profiling and its origin, will not be subject to such treatment and, however, will not
You are informed of the processing of other data that will be subject to it, such as the
consultation of solvency files and the Risk Information Center of Banco de
Spain or the so-called Risk score.

CPC's allegations cannot be shared when it states that it is fulfilled
adequately with the duty to inform the interested parties in relation to the data
that are processed for profiling, noting, first, that the categories of data
object of treatment are not among the minimum information described in the
article 13 of the RGPD so that the consent is informed.

In this regard, it should be reiterated here what was stated by the European Committee for the Protection
of Data in the document “Guidelines 05/2020 on consent in accordance with the
Regulation 2016/679”, to which reference has been made above, in particular not
it is only possible to reproduce again what is indicated in point Ad. iii) according to which
“Finally, data controllers must facilitate, with each data request,
separate consent, specific information about the data to be processed for
each purpose, in order that the interested parties know the repercussion of the
different options they have. In this way, interested parties are allowed to give a
specific consent. This issue overlaps with the requirement that
managers provide clear information, as stated above in
section 3.3”. The aforementioned point 3.3, which is also transcribed above
points out that “the requirement of transparency is one of the fundamental principles,
closely related to the principles of loyalty and legality. Supply information
data subjects before obtaining their consent is essential so that they can
make informed decisions, understand what they are authorizing and, therefore,
example, exercise your right to withdraw your consent”, in point 3.1.1. enumerate
the minimum content requirements for consent to be “informed”,
one of them being related to “what (type of) data will be collected and used”.

Nor can the allegation that the information provided does allow
interested parties to know the data that will be processed for profiling, since the
fragment transcribed by the AEPD corresponds to point 26.4. (ii) of the
general conditioning, but the rest of the conditioning has not been taken into account.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

121/133

It points out that in section 26.3 of the general conditions (prior to 26.4.ii transcribed in
the Home Agreement) specifies in greater detail what data will be processed for the
establishment or maintenance of business relationships.

CPC points out that point 26.3 informs that “CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and,
in its case the companies of the CaixaBank Group, is bound by different
regulations and agreements to carry out certain data processing of people
with which it maintains commercial relations, as indicated in the sections
following of this clause (hereinafter, “Processing for the Purposes of
Regulatory”). These treatments are necessary for the establishment and
maintenance of commercial relations with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer
and/or with the companies of the CaixaBank Group, and the Card Holder's opposition to them
would necessarily entail the cessation (or non-establishment, as the case may be) of these
relations. In any case, Processing for Regulatory Purposes will be limited
exclusively for the stated purpose, without prejudice to other purposes or uses that
the Holder authorizes according to the provisions of clause 26.4. of this document.”

CPC adds that point 26.3.3 informs about the query to files of
credit information (among which are those necessary to obtain the “Risk
Score”, as will be explained later) and point 26.3.4. reports about the
consultation to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain, transcribing
both of them:

“26.3.3 Communication with credit information systems.
The Account Holder is informed that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, in the study of the
establishment of Commercial Relations, you can consult information in
credit information systems. Likewise, in the event of non-payment of any of the
obligations derived from the Commercial Relations, the data related to the non-payment
may be communicated to these systems.

26.3.4. Communication of data to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of
Spain

The Holder of the right is informed that he assists CaixaBank Payments & Consumer to
Obtain reports from the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain (CIR).
about the risks that could be registered in the study of the establishment of
Business relationships. […]”

In this regard, it should be noted that the first of the fragments mentioned by
CPC in its allegations, this is point 26.3 of the general conditions refers
as it mentions in its title to the processing of character data
for regulatory purposes, being also clear in its content that it is
refers to them and not to commercial purposes, for which the information
it is offered in number 26.4. In the same way, points 26.3.3 and relative to the
communication with credit information systems, and 26.3.4, referring to the
communication to the Risk Information Center of the Bank of Spain,
included in the general section on processing for purposes
regulations, without any reference being made in them to the fact that such data may be
subject to processing within the framework of processing for commercial purposes
based on consent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

122/133

Point 26.4 is entitled precisely "Processing and transfer of data for purposes
commercial by Caixabank and the companies of the Caixabank Group based on the
consent”, and from that point the information related to such
treatments. Thus, in point ii of the aforementioned point 26.4, it is expressly indicated "The
data that will be processed for the purposes of (i) data analysis and study, and (ii) for the
commercial offer of products and services will be:

a) All those facilitated in the establishment or maintenance of relationships
commercial or business.

b) All those generated in the contracting and operations of products and services
with CaixaBank Payments & Consumer, with the companies of the CaixaBank Group or with
third parties, such as account or card movements, receipt details
direct debits, payroll direct debits, claims arising from insurance policies,
claims etc

c) All those that CaixaBank Payments & Consumer or the companies of the Group
CaixaBank obtain from the provision of services to third parties, when the service has
as recipient to the Holder, such as the management of transfers or receipts.

d) Whether or not you are a CaixaBank shareholder, as recorded in the records of
this, or of the entities that, in accordance with the regulations of the market of
securities must keep records of the securities represented by means of
book entries.

e) Those obtained from the social networks that the Holder authorizes to consult.

f) Those obtained from third parties as a result of requests for aggregation of
data requested by the Owner.

g) Those obtained from the Holder's navigation through the web service of
CaixaBank Payments & Consumer and other websites of this and/or of the companies of the Group
CaixaBank or CaixaBank Payments & Consumer mobile phone application and/or
the companies of the CaixaBank Group, in which it operates, duly identified. These
Data may include information related to geolocation.

h) Those obtained from chats, walls, videoconferences or any other means of
communication established between the parties. The Holder's data may be
complemented and enriched by data obtained from companies that provide
commercial information, by data obtained from public sources, as well as by data
statistical, socioeconomic (hereinafter, "Additional Information") provided
verifying that these comply with the requirements established in the current regulations
on data protection.”

Therefore, CPC's allegations can in no way be accepted, they cannot be
adequately informs about the data that may be processed in the
framework of commercial activities based on consent, information
provided by the person in charge expressly lists the alleged data that may
be used for such treatment for commercial purposes based on the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

123/133

consent, without making any reference to data as relevant as the query to
solvency files and the treatment called risk score. The information must
be provided as stated in article 12 of the RGPD in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible. It is inadmissible that the interested party should interpret the
information that is provided, to know what data will be processed for a
operation based on your consent by going to the information related to other
types of processing whose basis is not consent.

The allegations point out that the legitimizing basis for the treatment of these two
data, the query to solvency files and the risk score, is found in the
consent of the interested party. CPC affirms that the fact that certain treatments
carried out based on the consent of the interested party does not exclude that they must comply with the
legal obligations established in the Prudential and Solvency Regulations and
Responsible Loan given that the products sold are accounts of
credit and loans. Therefore, even when the treatment is carried out on the basis of the
consent of the interested party, CPC must comply with the legal obligations established
in the Prudential and Solvency and Responsible Lending Regulations; so, at
make a personalized offer to an interested party, CPC must assess their ability
return and solvency, consulting for this the data contained in systems of
credit information.

Such an allegation is not admissible, the offer of such products constitutes an activity
exclusively commercial, without article 20 of the LOPDGDD, relative to the
credit information systems, enable the query to such systems without the
consent of the interested party rather than in the case contained in letter e) of its
first number, according to which the data referring to a specific debtor only
can be consulted when “who consults the system maintains a relationship
contract with the affected party that implies the payment of a pecuniary amount or the latter
had requested the conclusion of a contract involving financing, payment
deferred or periodic billing, as happens, among other cases, in the
provided for in the legislation on consumer credit contracts and credit contracts
real estate.” This is not a request for such services, but an offer
that CPC makes of them, without the interested party previously requesting it.
Therefore, the absence of consent of the interested party for access to the
credit information systems determines an illegitimate treatment. And in this sense
It must be remembered that consent must be informed, so that without due
information, among which is knowing the data to be processed, the
consent becomes invalid.

Regarding the data called "risk score", from the information provided it seems
It can be inferred that this is another data profiling operation, carried out by a
in charge of the treatment, (...). This Agency considers that the
concerned about this new profiling operation, nor about the legal basis that
allows its realization, nor on the data used to carry it out.

CPC alleges that the data called “Risk Score” is obtained from the analysis
carried out by the supplier ***EMPRESA.3, (...), pointing out that when informing the
interested parties about the processing of their data, there is no mention of obtaining this
specific data since, even if it is obtained with the intervention of a person in charge
of the treatment, it does not differ from the simple analysis and study of data carried out

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

124/133

both for regulatory purposes and for commercial purposes and that its basis
legal, when it is carried out for commercial purposes, it will be the consent of the
interested, taking into account that to carry out the treatment of analysis and
study of data for commercial purposes, it will also be necessary to observe the
prudential and solvency regulations. It is added that regarding the data used
to obtain the "Risk Score", it is about the workers in information systems
credit.

This Agency does not share this allegation either, it cannot be considered to be
duly informs the interested parties when said treatment operation is integrated
within the analysis and study of data carried out for commercial purposes. The
called risk score constitutes in itself a profiling operation, without
inform the interested parties neither of the data used for said operation nor of their
result, which constitutes data to be used in other profiling operations
carried out by the controller for commercial purposes. Regarding the data
used to carry out the profiling operation called risk score, which
As indicated, they are those that work in the credit information systems,
nor is it possible to process it without the consent of the interested party, unless there are
the circumstances provided for in article 20.1.e of the LOPDGDD, which has previously been
made reference, which does not happen in the present case in which its
use for profiling for commercial purposes. Consequently, said
treatment becomes invalid insofar as it lacks a legitimizing basis by not requesting the
informed consent of the interested party so that it can be carried out.

In this sense, the Guidelines on automated individual decisions and
preparation of profiles for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 indicate that "The
Transparency of processing is a fundamental requirement of the GDPR.

The profiling process is often invisible to the data subject. It works
creating derived or inferred data about individuals ("new" personal data
that have not been directly provided by the interested parties themselves). People
have different levels of comprehension and may find it difficult to understand
complex technical profiling and decision processes
automated.

According to article 12, paragraph 1, the data controller must provide the
stakeholders concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible information on the
treatment of your personal data.

With respect to the data obtained directly from the interested party, these must
be provided at the time they are obtained (article 13); regarding the data
obtained indirectly, the information must be provided within the time limits established
in article 14, section 3”

More specifically, it should be reiterated that the aforementioned guidelines, in the point relating to
the legal bases of the treatment, in particular that related to consent, indicate
that “The WG29 guidelines on consent generally address the
consent as the basis of the treatment. Explicit consent is one of the
exceptions to the prohibition on automated decisions or the preparation of
profiles defined in article 22, paragraph 1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

125/133

Profiling can be opaque and is often based on data
derived or inferred from other data, rather than information provided directly
by the interested party.

Data controllers who claim to rely on consent as
basis for profiling should demonstrate that data subjects understand
exactly what they are consenting to, and they should remember that consent is not
always a suitable basis for treatment. In all cases, the interested parties
must have sufficient information about the intended use and consequences of the
processing to ensure that any consent they give constitutes a
informed choice.”

From all this it can be concluded that the consent given for the purposes of
profiling described in the facts of this agreement is not in accordance with the provisions
in article 4.7 RGPD. It is not specific, because it does not meet the requirement of
separation of the purposes and provision of consent for each of them, nor is it
duly informed. The absence of such requirements determines that it does not
is valid in such a way that the treatments based on it lack legitimacy
thus contravening the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD.

  Consequently, in accordance with the above findings, the aforementioned
facts could suppose a possible violation of article 6 of the RGPD, in relation to
with article 7 of the same legal text and article 6 of the LOPDGDD, which gives rise to the
application of the corrective powers that article 58 of the RGPD grants to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

v

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between
the corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in the letter

d) above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

SAW

In the present case, non-compliance with article 6.1 has been proven.
of the RGPD with the scope expressed in the previous Legal Foundations, which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

126/133

which, supposes the commission of an infraction typified in article 83.5 of the same
rule that under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative” provides the following:

5. “Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Infractions considered very serious

"one. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"one. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

127/133

such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD

has:

"one. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In this case, considering the seriousness of the infringement found, the

fine imposition.

The request made by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

128/133

CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U so that other corrective powers may be imposed,
specifically, the warning, taking into account the provisions of recital
148 of the RGPD according to which "In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this
Regulation, any infraction of this must be punished with sanctions, including
administrative fines, in addition to appropriate measures imposed by the
control authority under this Regulation, or in substitution of these. In
case of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed constituted
a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than sanction by
fine, a warning may be imposed. However, special attention must be paid
attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, to its
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

For the same reasons, and considering the graduation criteria of the
sanctions indicated below, the request for
imposition of a sanction in its minimum degree.

Nor can the allegation be admitted that, in the use of the criteria of
graduation of the sanction, this Agency separates itself from the administrative precedent
must motivate the change of criteria according to article 35.1.c) of the LACAP. According
CPC serves as an example PS/0070/2019 stating that an application is appreciated
different from the criteria that allow the sanction to be graded, since being, according to CPC
similar imputed acts are only taken into account two criteria of
graduation compared to those contained in the proposed resolution of this
process. This Agency, to determine the sanction to be imposed in each case,
takes into account the elements established in article 83 of the RGPD, as well as the
established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, justifying the application of each one
depending on the circumstances of each specific case.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanctions of a fine to be imposed in this case on the defendant, as responsible for
offenses typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD, the fine should be graduated
that would correspond to impose for the infraction imputed as follows:

Infraction due to non-compliance with the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD, in relation to
with article 7 of the same legal text and article 6 of the LOPDGDD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) and classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article
72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD:

 It is estimated that the following factors concur as aggravating factors:
reveal greater unlawfulness and/or culpability in the conduct of the entity
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.:

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operations in question;
the infraction results from the procedure designed by said entity for the collection
of the consent to carry out profiles for commercial purposes to its clients, which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

129/133

that entails a significant risk for the rights of the interested parties taking into account
account the particularly intrusive nature of such data processing.

Said entity alleges that “We are not facing a case in which CPC has
radically dispensed with the obligations related to obtaining
consents, without prejudice to the fact that the AEPD considers that it would be necessary to correct
certain issues, which could lead to improvements in the way in which
obtain consent." It also alleges that the Agency does not argue that
consists of that important risk nor the intrusive nature of the treatment, which leads to
wonder if sending commercial communications to customers is
particularly intrusive, what processing of personal data will not be
especially intrusive
 
This Agency considers that it is an infraction that affects the procedure
through which consent is obtained and which affects in particular two
essential elements of it, that is, that the consent be specific and
informed. It is therefore not a question of mere improvements in the procedure, but that the
Failure to comply with these two requirements determines that the consent becomes
invalid. Nor is it a mere sending of commercial communications, but
of performing profiling treatments.

-
The intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction;
the defects indicated in the procedure through which the
consent of their clients, given their evidence they should have been warned and
avoided when designing said procedure by an entity with the characteristics of
CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.

The high link between the activity of the offender and the performance of
-
personal data processing. The operations that constitute the activity
business developed by CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U. as an entity dedicated to the marketing of credit cards or
debit, credit accounts and loans, imply treatment operations of
personal information.

Said entity affirms that in no case, its main activity is the treatment of
personal data of its clients beyond what is necessary
for the development of that main activity, nor does it benefit
economically from the processing of the personal data of its clients. To this
In this regard, it must be taken into account that among its commercial activities
finds the sending of commercial communications to its clients of entities
third parties with whom it maintains commercial agreements.

It also affirms that the AEPD separates itself from the intention of the legislator that is directed
to consider aggravating the fact that the processing of personal data is the
main activity of a business nature, not that it is an instrument; hence
refers to "high bonding", otherwise it would be concluded that the
The mere fact of processing personal data would always be an aggravating circumstance. If he
legislator would have intended so, would not have qualified that such relationship should
be "high

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

130/133

This Agency does not share such an interpretation. Article 76.2.b of the LOPDGG
establishes as a criterion for grading the infraction “the connection of the
activity of the offender with the performance of personal treatment”. Saying
precept does not make any reference to its being high, as CPC affirms, but to the
fact that there is such a link, an element that this Agency has assessed as
high for the reasons stated.

-
The condition of large company of the responsible entity and its volume of
business. The business volume of the entity according to the information obtained has
been €872,976,000 in 2019. For information purposes, you must also
It should be noted that the turnover of the CaixaBank Group as of December 31, 2020
is estimated at twelve thousand one hundred and seventy-two million euros.

This Agency does not share the allegation that they have been used for the determination
tion of the fine both the turnover figure of CPC and that of the Group
CaixaBank, in which that would already be included. Group turnover
CaixaBank is mentioned for informational purposes to highlight that the fine is pro-
portional and dissuasive, as required by article 83.1 of the RGPD.

High volume of data and processing that constitutes the object of the
-
proceedings. It deals with a large volume of data and of the following typologies: data
identifying, financial, sociodemographic and socioeconomic, which allow
carry out an exhaustive profile of the interested parties.

-
High number of interested parties. The number of interested parties (clients) whose
data were treated in the development of the profiling activity associated with the
Proactive Scoring activity for commercial purposes, amounts to (...).

He requests that the effort made during the
recent years, especially since the entry into application of the RGPD, to
provide your customers with relevant information on the processing of their data
adequately and the implementation of a series of measures aimed at this improvement
in the collection of consents. It also alleges that CPC has been proactive and
diligent in responding to any requirements of the Agency.

 In the opinion of this Agency, providing information to its clients is an obligation that
derives from the RGPD and that it must be done in the manner required by it, therefore, the fact
to provide information to its clients, that with regard to the treatment object of the
this procedure this Agency considers precisely that it is not adequate, not
can be considered as a mitigating factor. Regarding the measures adopted, these
they focus on the modification of the privacy policy on their website, without
However, the information provided to the client when obtaining consent is
found in the document called GENERAL CONDITIONS OF THE
APPLICATION-CREDIT CONTRACT, document that has not been modified as the
CPC itself acknowledges in its response to the request made during the period
evidence, so it cannot be considered that sufficient measures have been taken
to remedy the infringement or mitigate its possible adverse effects. For him
Otherwise, different information is provided in said document and in the privacy policy.
privacy, so that the information provided to the interested party is not uniform.
On the other hand, meeting the information requirements of the Administration does not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

131/133

constitutes a mitigating factor contemplated in the data protection regulations.

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation reached by the fine for the

infringement charged is 3,000,000 euros.
  

7th

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, each authority
of control may “order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
when appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period…”.

In this case, considering the circumstances expressed in relation to the
observed breaches, it is appropriate to require CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U. so that, within the term indicated in part
device, adapt to the personal data protection regulations the
procedures by which consent is obtained to create profiles
for commercial purposes with the scope and in the sense expressed in the
Foundations of Law of this act.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with the Authority
of control” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such behavior to the
time of the opening of an administrative sanctioning procedure with a fine
pecuniary

 Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: Impose on the entity CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U., with NIF A08980153, for an infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in
Article 83.5 of the RGPD, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in the
article 73 of the LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to 3,000,000 euros (three
millions of euros).

SECOND: Require the entity CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP,
S.A.U within a period of 6 months adopt the necessary measures to adapt to the
personal data protection regulations the procedures by which
obtains its clients' consent to create profiles for purposes
commercial, with the scope expressed in the Foundation of Law VII. within the term
indicated, CAIXABANK PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U, must justify
before this Spanish Data Protection Agency the attention of this
request.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CAIXABANK PAYMENTS &
CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

132/133

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

133/133

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

