  Thursday, October 27, 2022 2: Lower Saxony press releases: The time has come for a transparency law! In its resolution published today, the Conference of Freedom of Information Officers (IFK) calls on potential coalition partners in Lower Saxony to include the enactment of a transparency law in the coalition agreement. Alongside Bavaria, Lower Saxony is the only state that has not yet had either a freedom of information law or a transparency law. According to the State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Dr. h.c. Marit Hansen, who will chair the IFK for 2022, this should now change: The IFK suggests making freedom of information and transparency a topic in the coalition negotiations in Lower Saxony and codifying the enactment of a transparency law there. Hansen explains: “The federal government and all other countries that have freedom of information and transparency laws have had good experiences with this. Transparency is an important part of any modern administration. I appeal to the coalition parties in Lower Saxony to tackle the issue and finally give citizens unconditional access to information from their administration.” The resolution “Lower Saxony: the time for a transparency law has come!” is available as a PDF file . If you have any questions, please contact: State Commissioner for Data Protection
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel.: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: ifk, freedom of information, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: Data protection ensures free democratic elections - planned EU -Regulation on transparency and targeting of political advertising Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer academy in Kiel on September 11th, 2023 5 years General Data Protection Regulation: Proven benchmark, implementable, internationally recognized 105th conference of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities: employee data protection, KI at the police, wireless water meter, sovereign cloud Preliminary agenda of the 45th working group meeting on freedom of information (AKIF) on May 9th and 10th, 2023 in Bonn