 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Mr. Juan Fernando López Aguilar 
Chair of the European Parliament’s Committee 
on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE) 

Brussels, 10 July 2019 

By email only 

Ref: OUT2019-0007 

Subject: LIBE Committee letters to the EDPS and to the EDPB regarding legal assessment of 
the impact of the US Cloud Act on the European legal framework for personal data protection 

Dear Mr. López Aguilar, 

We thank the LIBE Committee for its letters, by which the Committee asked both the EDPS and the 
EDPB for a legal assessment of the impact of the US Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act 
(US CLOUD Act) on the European legal framework for the protection of personal data, as this is an 
important and complex issue. 

The  attached  initial  legal  assessment  focuses  on  this  specific  context  of  requests  made  by US  law 
enforcement authorities under the US CLOUD Act for criminal investigations purposes. It builds on 
the current EU data protection legal framework and is therefore subject to its accurate interpretation. 
It does not preclude any conclusions that could possibly be drawn in other contexts or any future legal 
improvements where necessary. 

The  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  2016/679  contains  in  particular  one  important  provision, 
which  aims  to  regulate  “transfers  or  disclosures  not  authorised  by  Union  law”  and  constitutes  an 
important element of the current set of rules framing disclosures and transfers of personal data from 
the EU to third countries (Article 48). 

We would like also to remind you that the GDPR also contains a series of derogations for transfers 
in specific situations that must be subject to strict interpretation (Article 49). We have conducted an 
initial analysis of this question that you will find attached. We are of the view that currently, unless a 
US CLOUD Act warrant is recognised or made enforceable on the basis of an international agreement, 
the  lawfulness  of  such  transfers  of  personal  data  cannot  be  ascertained,  without  prejudice  to 
exceptional circumstances where processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the 
data subject. 

The  Mutual  Legal  Assistance  Treaty  already  in  force  between  the  EU  and  the  US1,  as  a  legal 
instrument  mainly aimed  at  facilitating  judicial  cooperation,  contains  only  very limited  provisions 
relevant from a data protection point of view. The EDPB and EDPS therefore wish to emphasize the 
urgent need for a new generation of MLATs to be implemented, allowing for a much faster and secure 

1  Agreement on mutual legal assistance between the European Union and the United States of America of 19 July 2003, 

entered into force on 1 February 2010.

1 

 

processing of requests  in  practice.  In  order to  provide  a  much better  level  of data protection,  such 
updated MLATs should contain relevant and strong data protection safeguards such as, for example, 
guarantees  based  on  the  principles  of  proportionality and  data  minimisation.  In  addition,  the  "dual 
criminality principle" providing safeguard against discrepancy between how a crime is defined under 
the foreign law and how the same crime is legally defined under EU law should be preserved. 

We also note that the European Commission has recently engaged in negotiations with the US of an 
international  agreement  dealing precisely with  cross-border  access  requests  to  electronic  evidence. 
The relevant negotiating mandate together with more specific negotiating directives were adopted by 
the Council on 27 May 20192. We would like to recall that, of course, such international agreement 
must also contain sufficient adequate data protection safeguards3  and be compliant with EU law. 

In light of the above, we would like to stress the importance of a comprehensive EU-US agreement 
on  access  to  electronic  evidence,  containing  strong  procedural  and  substantive  fundamental  rights' 
safeguards, to  ensure  the  necessary level of protection for  EU data  subjects and legal certainty for 
businesses operating in both jurisdictions. 

We also  stress the  need  for  an  EU-level approach.  In this  specific  context, as massive  amounts of 
electronic  communication data  are processed and  stored by operators falling under US jurisdiction 
and since direct access requests sent by US authorities are likely to affect any Member State, an EU- 
level approach is essential here in order to avoid the potential negative consequences of a fragmented 
patchwork of non-harmonised bilateral executive agreements between the US and EU Member States 
that would be concluded under the US CLOUD Act. 

Finally, an EU-level approach should on the one hand be coherent: conditions under which US law 
enforcement  authorities  could  obtain  personal  data  stored  in  the  EU  should  not  be  more 
lenient/flexible than conditions for EU law enforcement authorities to obtain data in the EU. On the 
other hand, such approach should be reciprocal: conditions for US authorities to access personal data 
stored in the EU should take into account conditions with which EU law enforcement authorities must 
comply  to  request  data  in  the  US,  so  that  individuals  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  enjoy  similar 
safeguards and protections. 

Further analysis is required with regard to additional specific situations and other issues raised in this 
legal assessment. 

Yours sincerely, 

For the EDPB                                                                         For the EDPS 

Andrea Jelinek                                                                        Giovanni Buttarelli 

 

Attached: Annex 
Cc:       Antoine CAHEN, Head of Unit, LIBE Secretariat. 

Jose-Manuel de FRUTOS GOMEZ, Administrator, LIBE Secretariat. 

2  https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9666-2019-INIT/en/pdf 
3  See EDPS  Opinion 2/2019 on the  negotiating mandate of an EU-US agreement on cross-border access to electronic 
2 

evidence. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

