1/7

Procedure No.: PS/00214/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00214/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the FULL SERVICE COMPANY EURO DINER, S.L.
(EURODINER.ES) (hereinafter the defendant), having regard to the complaint filed by the
GENERAL SUBDIRECTORATE OF COORDINATION, QUALITY AND COOPERATION OF
CONSUMPTION of the MINISTRY OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE (as
successively the claimant), and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 11/14/2018, the claimant filed a written claim before
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The letter is directed against the defendant,
with NIF B73192825. The reasons on which he bases his writing are in synthesis: that in the
course of a sweep carried out by the Internet Consumption Observatory
had verified that the website: https://eurodiner.es, which also contains
form for data collection, does not comply with current regulations on
of data protection.

Provides screenshots of the web page, where the policy of

 
privacy as well as form.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced and the documents provided by
the claimant of which this Agency has become aware, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection proceeded to carry out actions for the
clarification of the facts.

On 02/05/2019, reiterated on 02/18/2019, the claimant was transferred the
claim submitted for analysis and communication to the complainant of the
decision made in this regard. Similarly, he was required so that within a
month send the Agency certain information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

On 05/23/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

The respondent has not responded to any of the requirements

formulated by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

THIRD: On 07/05/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 11/14/2018 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data from the claimant stating that in the course of a sweep
carried out by the Internet Consumption Observatory, it is found that the site
web: https://eurodiner.es, which also contains a form for data collection,
does not comply with current regulations on data protection.

SECOND: There is a query to the Central Mercantile Registry of the Eurodiner entity that
habitually acts in the negotiation or formalization of typical operations of the
activity of a credit institution, in the name and on behalf of the latter, with the
Credit Institution Agent.

THIRD: A copy of the privacy policy included on the page has been provided.
web https://eurodiner.es, containing a simple attached form to fill in
of data collection, without appearing or there being any reference to the information that has been
to be provided to the interested parties in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator
can voluntarily acknowledge its responsibility, with the effects provided for in the
article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those
may adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
not to carry out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

Article 13 of the RGPD establishes the information that must be provided to the

interested at the time of collecting your data, establishing the following:
 

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment; 4.5.2016 L 119/40 Official Journal of the European Union EN

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

The facts revealed are specified in the absence of adaptation
of the privacy policy of the website https://eurodiner.es to current regulations
regarding the protection of personal data, specifically, there is no
any information in the sense indicated in article 13 of the RGPD.

The website https://eurodiner.es also contains a simple form for
the collection of user data in which no reference is made to the
compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the aforementioned RGPD, in the
sense of determining the identity of the controller, the purposes for which
the data will be allocated, the rights that the interested party can exercise before the
responsible etc

IV

Article 83.5. b) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the rights of
those interested in accordance with articles 12 to 22”, is punishable, in accordance with the
 “with fines
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation,
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.

(…)”

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following: "Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

The RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates in its
article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the treatments
personal data that do not meet your expectations.

In the case at hand, it has been proven that the defendant did not
has adapted the information offered on its website to the provisions of the RGPD,
Therefore, the aforementioned conduct constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article 13
of the GDPR.

It should be noted that the respondent did not respond to the request for information

formulated by the Inspection Service.

v

At this point, it is necessary to inform that not meeting the requirements
of the Agency may constitute a very serious infringement in accordance with the
indicated in article 72 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes: “1. Depending on what
established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

(…)

ñ) Failure to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the

competent data protection authority.

(…)”

At the same time, notification of the start agreement and after the term granted

to formulate allegations, I do not present any writing.

In the present case, it has been proven that the respondent does not have
adapted the information offered on its website to the provisions of the RGPD, therefore
that the aforementioned conduct entails an infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR.

It is necessary to point out that if the incidence is not corrected by adapting the
information offered on its website, privacy policy and legal notice to
indicated in the RGPD or reiterate the conduct revealed in the
claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not informing
following this AEPD of the measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of
possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment so that they are applied
effectively the appropriate measures to guarantee and not compromise the
confidentiality of personal data and the right to privacy of
people.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EURO FULL SERVICES COMPANY on the entity
DINER, S.L. (EURODINER.ES), with NIF B73192825, for an infringement of article 13
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the SERVICE COMPANY
PLENOS EURO DINER, S.L. (EURODINER.ES) and require you to inform the
AEPD of the measures adopted to prevent that in the future a
new infringement of article 13 of the RGPD trying to facilitate the interested party the
information contained therein at the time of collecting your data,
adapting your website.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

