

Bonn, October 1, 2021


Press release 15/2021


  BfDI starts consultation process on AI in the field of criminal prosecution and security
On September 30, 2021, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) started its consultation process on the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in law enforcement and averting danger.

The BfDI, Professor Ulrich Kelber, said: "The use of artificial intelligence in the area of criminal prosecution and averting danger raises fundamental questions that have not yet been clarified. My authority has drawn up a consultation paper with seven basic theses. We put these up for discussion. With this we want to position ourselves in terms of content and initiate a public debate”.
The consultation procedure is aimed at actors from politics, business, society and administration who deal with the subject of this procedure. Everyone is invited to email their comments and opinions to konsultation2021@bfdi.bund.de by the end of the consultation period. The consultation process runs until December 17, 2021. The results will be published on the BfDI website.
On October 6, 2021 from 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., the BfDI is organizing a virtual symposium that can be followed via live stream to discuss data protection aspects of the processing of personal data in police information systems in the age of AI and Big Data. The aim of the event is a broad and open discourse with representatives from science, politics, civil society, police practice and data protection authorities. The BfDI is pleased that it has the former Federal Minister of Justice Ms Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, the State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Ms Marit Hansen, Prof. Dr. Matthias Bäcker from the University of Mainz and the President of the Federal Criminal Police Office, Mr. Holger Münch, were able to win participants.
The event can be followed as a live stream.

Consultation paper:
Thesis paper on the use of artificial intelligence in law enforcement and hazard prevention (PDF, 771KB, file is barrier-free)




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











