1/8

Notice No. 32/2019 of February 6, 2019

Subject: Request for opinion regarding a draft decree amending Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code and establishing a "water" certification for built properties, named "CertIBEau" (CO-A-2018-216).

The Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority");

Considering the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in particular Articles 23 and 26 (hereinafter "LCA");

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter "GDPR");

Considering the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD");

Considering the request for opinion from the Minister of the Environment of the Walloon Government, Carlo Di Antonio, received on December 17, 2019;

Considering the report of Mr. Debeuckelaere Willem;

Issues, on February 6, 2019, the following opinion:

Opinion 32/2019 - 2/8

I. OBJECT OF THE REQUEST AND CONTEXT

1. The Minister of the Environment of the Walloon Government consults the Authority for an opinion regarding Article 5 of the draft decree amending Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code and establishing a "water" certification for built properties, named "CertIBEau" [the project].

2. It follows from the explanatory memorandum of the project the following. The project imposes a new obligation on owners of new residential buildings (public or private) to have a document (a certification) issued by a third party (the Government or individuals or legal entities approved by it), the CertIBEau, stating whether or not the concerned building complies with a series of obligations enshrined in the Water Code. From the terms of the explanatory memorandum of Article 3 of the project, it "concerns the obligations related, on the one hand, to the connection of buildings to the public water supply, and on the other hand, to the connection of buildings to the sewer system or to an individual wastewater treatment system and the disposal of wastewater." And the project does not create new obligations in this regard, "but is intended to verify that the pre-existing obligations have indeed been fulfilled or still need to be fulfilled [or] will be fulfilled within the allotted time."

3. The request for opinion addressed to the Authority is limited to Article 5 of the project, which provides for the establishment of a database grouping the information contained in the CertIBEau. The Authority will therefore limit its analysis to the processing of personal data concerned by this provision.

II. EXAMINATION OF THE PROJECT

4. Preliminary considerations: transparency and legality. Under the principles of transparency and legality enshrined in Articles 8 of the ECHR and 22 of the Constitution, a norm of the rank of law must clearly provide under what circumstances a processing of personal data is authorized, and consequently determine what data is processed, the persons concerned, the conditions and purposes of said processing, the duration of data retention, and the persons having access to it, and the data controller. The Authority has already had

1 In this sense, recently see Constitutional Court, judgment No. 29/2018 of March 15, 2018, points B.9 and following, and point B.13.3 in particular.
2 The Constitutional Court has acknowledged that "the legislator could generally regulate the conditions for the retention of personal data, as well as the duration of this retention," judgment No. 29/2018 of March 15, 2018, point B.23.
3 See for example, Constitutional Court, judgment No. 29/2018 of March 15, 2018, point B.18, and Constitutional Court, judgment No. 44/2015 of April 23, 2015, points B.36.1 and following.
Notice 32/2019 - 3/8  
It is an opportunity to recall these principles. When the basis for processing is grounded in national law, Article 6, 3., of the GDPR also specifically requires that the purposes be defined within that basis. In this context, a delegation to the Walloon Government "is not contrary to the principle of legality, provided that the authorization is defined with sufficient precision and pertains to the execution of measures whose essential elements are predetermined by the legislator."  

5.  
Purposes of processing. Article 5 of the draft (inserting Article D.227quinquies into Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code) does not explicitly specify the purpose of the database it plans to establish, and provides for a broad authorization of the Government which "specifies the conditions, the modalities of access and use of the information contained in the database, and the quality of the persons who may access the data it determines." It is important to clarify this.  

6.  
Within the limits of its analysis, based on the economy of the project, the Authority assumes that the database to be established should pursue the following two purposes, which, related to the compliance of a property with substantive rules regarding water connection and water discharge, are those of CertIBEau in the project. These purposes can be considered as falling under Article 6, 1., e), of the GDPR.  

7.  
Firstly, the Authority understands that CertIBEau will allow for a certain transparency regarding transferees of certain rights over the property, who will be informed either of the compliance of the property in question or of the works to be carried out in view of achieving such compliance. In this regard, "any act of transfer between living persons, whether private or authentic, whether declarative, constitutive, or translative, of real or personal rights of enjoyment for more than nine years, with the exception, however, of acts of mortgage establishment and transfers resulting from a marriage contract or a modification of matrimonial regime and transfers resulting from a legal cohabitation agreement or a modification of such an agreement" is concerned (Article D.227ter, paragraph 5, inserted into Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by Article 3 of the draft).  

4 See, for example, Opinion of the APD No. 110/2018 of October 17, 2018, points 7-9; Opinion of the APD No. 161/2018 of December 19, 2018, for a concrete hypothesis where a legislator intends to base the power of the King to establish personal data processing.  
5 See Constitutional Court: Judgment No. 29/2010 of March 18, 2010, point B.16.1; Judgment No. 39/2013 of March 14, 2013, point B.8.1; Judgment No. 44/2015 of April 23, 2015, point B.36.2; Judgment No. 107/2015 of July 16, 2015, point B.7; Judgment No. 108/2017 of October 5, 2017, point B.6.4; Judgment No. 29/2018 of March 15, 2018, point B.13.1; Judgment No. 86/2018 of July 5, 2018, point B.7.2.  
6 The introduction of the explanatory memorandum further explains how this "Water component acts both at the level of the objectives 'Well-being and health' and 'Environment' of the targets of sustainable construction references."
Notice 32/2019 - 4/8

8. 
Secondly, the CertIBeau aims to achieve a prior compliance check for the connection to water. Indeed, "The obtaining of a CertIBEau certifying the compliance of the built properties with the obligations [concerned] is mandatory before connecting a property to the public water distribution" (article D.227ter, paragraph 2, inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by article 3 of the draft). According to the terms of the explanatory memorandum of article 3 of the draft, "the text in the draft does not impose any new obligations regarding connection, internal network, drainage, and treatment of wastewater, but is intended to verify that the pre-existing obligations have been fulfilled or still need to be fulfilled [or] will be fulfilled within the allotted time" (italics added by the Authority).

9. 
For the sake of transparency, these two objectives should be clarified in the provisions of article 5. If the database created by article 5 of the draft is to be used for other purposes, without prejudice to the possible application of the rules provided by the cooperation agreement of May 23, 2013, between the Walloon Region and the French Community regarding the development of a joint initiative on data sharing and the joint management of this initiative, either the draft should explicitly provide for this, or such other purposes should be based on other statutory provisions, in accordance with the principles recalled previously (see above, point no. 4).

10. 
Concerned data and access to it. According to the terms of the draft (article 5 inserting article D.227quinquies in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code), it is about establishing a "database grouping the information contained in the CertIBEau." The CertIBEau will, in principle (the draft does not specify this), include the identities of the owner of the concerned property (the one who can request a CertIBEau, see article D.227ter, paragraph 3, inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by article 3 of the draft) and the issuer of the CertIBEau (the certifier or the competent official if the Government has not delegated the mission of issuing the certificate to accredited certifiers). It will also include a series of characteristics related to the built property, namely more precisely, the assessment of its state of "compliance with the obligations related to the connection and the private water distribution installation referred to in articles D.182, §3, D.195 to D.207 and D.227bis and the regulatory provisions taken under them, as well as the obligations related to the drainage and treatment of urban wastewater specified in the general sanitation regulation referred to in article D.218" (article D.227ter, paragraph 1, inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by article 3 of the draft). The concerned data are therefore defined in the draft, and they do not require any comments in relation to article 5, 1., c), of the GDPR.
Notice 32/2019 - 5/8  
11.  
The individuals (private individuals or public authorities acting within the scope of their missions) who will have access to the data, however, are not specified in Article 5 of the draft. Certainly, the explanatory memorandum of this article mentions, in light of the aforementioned authorization of the Government, that the "Government will determine the quality of the persons who may access all data or certain categories, such as the SPW, municipalities, notaries, architects, or even the owners of the properties that have been subject to a CertIBEau." Article D.227quinquies inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by Article 5 of the draft, must be clarified on this point by identifying the recipients of data according to the purposes of processing (see above, points nos 5-8) (for example, the public authority – or the person, as the case may be, responsible for this public interest mission – granting the water connection, notaries concerning the acts of transfer of the relevant rights for which they perform their functions, the owner of the property subject to the CertIBEau, etc.).  

12.  
Data retention period. The data must, in particular, be retained for a period not exceeding that necessary for the purposes for which they are processed, pursuant to Article 5, § 1, e), of the GDPR. Article D.227quinquies inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by Article 5 of the draft, does not define the essential elements of the data retention period. The Authority emphasizes that if the data retention period cannot be quantified, it may suffice to establish the criteria for determining this period. In this case, concerning data related to properties, it is therefore a priori possible, which it is the applicant's responsibility to analyze, that the identification data of the owners and certifiers of the properties included in the CertIBEau must remain in the database as long as the concerned property exists.  

13.  
Data controller. As a reminder, the data controller is the person, public authority, or any other body that determines alone or jointly with others the purposes and means of processing (Article 4, 7, of the GDPR). And when the purposes and means of processing are determined by regional law, "the data controller may be designated or the specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided by regional law." In this regard, while Member States can specify the application of GDPR rules in particular areas where they legislate to ensure coherence and clarity of the normative framework applicable to data processing, they cannot derogate from the GDPR or depart from the definitions it establishes. If regional law determines joint responsibility for processing, it may also determine the respective obligations of the joint data controllers (Article 26, 1., of the GDPR).  
                                                  
7 The Constitutional Court has acknowledged that "the legislator could generally regulate the conditions for the retention of personal data, as well as the duration of this retention," judgment no. 29/2018 of March 15, 2018, point B.23.  
8 In this regard, see Data Protection Authority, opinion no. 110/2018 of October 17, 2018, points nos 52 and following.
Notice 32/2019 - 6/8

14. 
In this case, Article 5 of the draft does not directly allocate the responsibilities in question. It provides that the Government "organizes and manages" the database, or that it may "entrust this mission to the S.P.G.E." (the Public Water Management Company, a public limited company) (Article D.227quinquies inserted in Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code, by Article 5 of the draft). Based on the draft, the Authority does not have all the elements necessary to concretely identify how the database will function (for example, will the certifier need to connect to it and will they be responsible for uploading the CertIBEau they authored?) and therefore cannot exhaust the question of responsibilities, if applicable jointly, regarding the data processing that will be carried out. In any case, it seems clear that in the event the Government (the Walloon Region) organizes and manages the database itself, it would incur liability as the data controller (for example, concerning the retention, availability of data, and management of access to the database). The draft should at least clarify and specify what this responsibility would entail, in the event that the SPGE is entrusted with this mission (does the applicant intend to attribute responsibility for the processing of personal data to it or not?). This is also crucial regarding the ability of the data subject to effectively exercise their rights under the GDPR.

15. 
Risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, technical and organizational measures. This has been emphasized (see above, point no. 8), a positive CertIBEau constitutes a condition for connection to the public water distribution. The explanatory memorandum of Article 3 of the draft clearly states that if the conclusions of the CertIBEau "are negative, either the new building cannot be connected to the public water distribution, or, in the case of a real estate transfer, the buyer must be fully informed in order to be well aware of the compliance obligations that will fall upon them after the sale" (italics added by the Authority). Furthermore, while the draft will only apply in its current state to new buildings, it is likely in the long term to apply to all existing buildings. The explanatory memorandum of Article 3 explains in this regard "[f]or the moment, the text does not foresee the mandatory submission of existing buildings to the CertIBEau regime, the legislator preferring to postpone this hypothesis until it is possible to draw initial lessons from practice." In other words, the CertIBEau has a direct impact on the right to water of individuals (for example, the owner of the new building subject to the CertIBEau). Consequently, the processing of personal data through the database created by Article 5

9 See Articles D.1, paragraph 3, and D.195, paragraph 1 (regarding connection) of the Water Code; United Nations, Economic and Social Council, General Comment No. 15 (2002), "The right to water (arts. 11 and 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights)", E/C.12/2002/11, January 20, 2003; Poverty, Precarity and Social Exclusion Service, "Combating Poverty", biennial report 2008-2009, Part 1, section IV, title 4.1, "Towards an effective right to water", available at the following address http://www.luttepauvrete.be/publications/rapport5/rap5_Eau_FR.pdf.
Notice 32/2019 - 7/8  
of the project, in that it pursues the purpose of CertIBEau, is also likely to have such an impact.  

16.  
Based on the elements contained in the project, the Authority draws the applicant's attention to the following two points. First, in its current state, such data processing could not justify an automated individual decision regarding the connection of a building to the public water distribution system (see Article 22 of the GDPR), which the project does not actually foresee.  

17.  
Secondly, it will be up to the Government, in the context of adopting the implementing measures of Article 5 of the project, and depending on how it determines the conditions, modalities of access, and use of the information contained in the database for the purpose of connecting a building to the public water distribution system, to carry out, if deemed necessary, a data protection impact assessment in accordance with Article 35 of the GDPR. If the database were intended to play a decisive role in the decision-making process regarding the connection to the public water distribution system, which is not clearly indicated in the project, the integrity and availability of the relevant data would be particularly important. Specific attention should, in this case, be given in the project to the technical and organizational measures to be implemented under Article 32 of the GDPR, not leaving the Government with total discretion in this matter. Its implementing power could be generally framed in principle (a legal text cannot define the technical details related to security and the organization of processing, unless risking rapid obsolescence).  

FOR THESE REASONS,  

the Authority is of the opinion that the draft decree amending Book II of the Environmental Code containing the Water Code and establishing a "water" certification for built properties, called "CertIBEau," must be adapted. In summary, it is necessary to specify the essential elements of the intended processing by clarifying the purposes of the database referred to in Article 5 of the project (see above, points nos 5-9), the persons who will have access to the data (see above, point no. 11), the elements regarding the data retention period (see above, point no. 12), the responsibility regarding the processing of personal data (see above, points nos 13-14), and, where applicable, the technical and organizational measures ensuring the security of the processing (see above, points 15-17).  

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Willem Debeuckelaere  
Acting Administrator  
President,  

Director of the Knowledge Center