

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with the offering of services (the company BOHEMIA ENERGY entity s.r.o.)



On the basis of three complaints, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data in connection with the offering of services, in particular in connection with addressing potential customers of BOHEMIA ENERGY entity s.r.o., or its sales representatives. The complainants stated that they were approached by a representative of the company, who should have had information about the contracts they had concluded. However, it was not possible to prove these claims, and thus the inspectors, in connection with the recruitment of new clients, including recruitment through sales representatives, did not prove a breach of the duties of the personal data administrator. The inspectors also found that the company documents the technical and organizational measures taken in the area of personal data processing when recruiting new clients. One complainant stated that the company is demanding payment of her deceased mother's claim without proper legal title. Also in this case, after checking it, the inspectors did not find any violation of the company's legal obligations. The Office did not find any violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. in connection with the processing of personal data in question. The inspection was conducted by the inspector MVDr. František Bartoš. Recommendation: In the event that someone knows your personal data, although in your opinion they should not, document the matter and exercise your rights according to Regulation (EU) 2016/676, especially ask this person to communicate the source of the personal data. The administrator is fundamentally obliged to process your request without unnecessary delay, within one month at the latest. If the administrator does not handle the request on time or if you are not satisfied with the handling, you can contact the Office. The office must document your claim, especially the request and the administrator's possible response to it.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Sale of goods and services > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the offering of services (company BOHEMIA ENERGY entity s.r.o.) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



