

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of the folder on the data storage set up for archiving camera recordings (SECURE HOME s.r.o. company)



On the basis of a complaint forwarded by the Police of the Czech Republic, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the security of the folder set up for archiving camera recordings, located on the data storage of the inspected person. The subject of the complaint was a suspected violation of the obligations set out in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in connection with the taking of video recordings and photographs of third parties testifying to the activities of the controlled person and their subsequent publication on the Facebook social network (profile of the controlled person). However, the police did not find out who placed the photos and records on the profile of the person being checked. However, the facts found led to the suspicion that an unauthorized person could have gained access to the data storage where the videos and photos are stored due to insufficient security. However, during the inspection, the inspected person did not provide the required cooperation necessary to collect the documents for the adoption of inspection conclusions regarding the processing of personal data. The manager of the inspected person could not be contacted in any way, no representative of the inspected person attended the ordered oral meeting without an apology, and the inspected person generally did not show any activity at the time of the inspection. The cooperation provided by the partners of the audited person and the web hosting company did not result in any relevant information in relation to the subject of the audit. With regard to the above, the inspection was concluded with the statement that it was not possible to determine and document whether and to what extent the inspected party processes personal data in the form of video recordings or photographs capturing its activities. In the same way, it was not possible to evaluate whether his actions violate the obligations set out in Regulation (EU) 216/679. The inspection was conducted by inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Božena Čajková. Recommendation: The taking of video recordings and photographs and their storage are fundamentally subject to the personal data protection regime, including requirements for proper security of access to these recordings or photographs. In case of publication of personal data on social networks, not only the person who published them, but also the given social network can be contacted with a request for their removal.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > IT technology > Inspection of the security of the folder on the data storage set up for archiving camera recordings (company SECURE HOME s.r.o.) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



