Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the
bill n°7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of
its origins in the context of adoption or procreation
medically assisted with third-party donors.

Deliberation n°52/AV30/2021 of November 29, 2021.

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27
2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data ä
personal character and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which refers
Article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the "National Commission" or
the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and organizations regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons
with regard to treatment”.

Not having been directly seized by the Minister of Justice, nor at the stage of the pre-
draft, nor at the draft law stage, the National Commission nevertheless wishes to express
with regard to bill n°7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins
in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors
(hereinafter the "draft law"), as amended on May 4, 2021, and as regards the interactions
of the latter with the legal framework relating to the protection of personal data. the
this opinion follows the coordinated text as amended.

Internal referral by the National Commission takes place within the framework of the numerous processing
of personal data, including health data, carried out for the purposes of
the exercise of access to the knowledge of its origins and affecting the most intimate aspects
of the privacy of the persons concerned.

Although the National Commission in no way wishes to question the legitimacy of the
new measures introduced by the bill, it stresses, however, that guarantees
sufficient with regard to respect for the fundamental principles of the right to the protection of
personal data must be implemented. The National Commission
therefore raises the need to provide for legal, organizational and
techniques in order to ensure a high level of protection of personal data.

I. Cross-sectional observations

A. Introductory remarks

As a preliminary point, a question should be raised as to the scope of the draft
law under notice. Indeed, the titles of the second chapter, and in particular that of the first section

Parliamentary document No. 7674/02

CNPII

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

1/22

of this chapter, lead one to think that only children born under secrecy who will subsequently be
adopted children would have the right to know their origins, while children born in secret, and
who will not be adopted, would not have this right. This interpretation
is supported by the title of the bill as well as by Article 4, paragraph 3, which provides
that "The processing of this data is necessary for the purposes of implementing the
seeking access for a child to his or her origins in the context of adoption or
medically assisted procreation with third party donors”.

However, the CNPD does not see the reason for this difference in treatment, especially since it is
impossible to know at the time of delivery whether the child will be adopted. A
such a distinction would have the consequence that children born in secret and who are not
subsequently adopted do not have the right to be provided with the information that has been
collected about them under the bill.

In addition, bill no. 6568A reforming filiation as amended does not provide
such a difference in treatment insofar as the new article 312bis of the Civil Code
provides that “A child has the right to have, as far as possible, access to his or her origins.
[...]". The commentary to the articles specifies that “[1]the provisions of this article are
applicable whether it concerns access to data relating to a person's origins in the event of
childbirth under X, full adoption, medically assisted procreation or
surrogacy ". Particular attention should therefore be given to the articulation
of the bill under opinion with bill n°6568A.

Still on a preliminary basis, it should be clarified that the right of access to a child's origins does not
should not be confused with the data subject's right of access to data
personal data concerning him as provided for in article 15 of the GDPR. In this regard, it should be recalled
that the right of access within the meaning of Article 15 of the GDPR grants data subjects the
right to contact the controller directly to request confirmation
that personal data concerning him are or are not being processed. This same
right confers on the person concerned to obtain a copy of the personal data
being processed, provided that such copying does not infringe the rights and
freedoms of others (limitation provided for in Article 15, paragraph 4 of the GDPR). For example, a
child concerned could exercise his right of access on the basis of article 15 of the GDPR with
of the hospital in which he was born. The hospital in question is therefore bound, taking into account
any limitations provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR, to be communicated to the child
all the data concerning him. However, this exercise of the right of access on the basis of Article
15 of the GDPR should not be confused with the exercise of the right of access to its origins
what does this bill intend to put in place in that this last right of access is aimed
to another data controller (the Minister in this case) and can hardly be limited
such as the right of access provided for by the GDPR (no copy if the request infringes the
rights and freedoms of others - Article 15(4) GDPR).

Furthermore, article 1 of the bill provides that "access to one's origins does not give rise to any right
nor obligation for the benefit or at the expense of any person”. This provision is particularly
ambiguous, given that the objective of the bill is precisely to establish the right of access
to its origins. It also creates obligations, such as for example in Article 20 which
provides, in the context of medically assisted procreation with third-party donors (hereinafter
"PMA"), the obligation for the authors of the parental project to make the declaration
spontaneous transmission of certain information to the minister responsible for the bill (here
after “minister”). The National Commission considers, in the light of the comments of the

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

2/22

articles, that it was the intention of the authors of the bill not to create obligations
and parentage rights. It therefore agrees with the suggestion made by the Council
of State in its opinion of July 16, 20212 to delete this article.

B. With regard to Article 6(3) of the GDPR

According to Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR, processing is only lawful if at least one of the
conditions listed therein are met. The National Commission understands that the bill
under opinion intends to create a condition of lawfulness within the meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1 letter c)
of the GDPR, namely that the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to
to which the controller is subject.

However, Article 6, paragraph 3 of the GDPR provides that "the basis for the processing referred to in
paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
1. Union law; Where
2. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, insofar as
relates to the processing referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1, are necessary for the performance
of a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of the official authority of which
invested the controller. This legal basis may contain provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, inter alia:
the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the data controller
treatment; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people
concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be transferred
communicated and the purposes for which they may be communicated; the limitation of
purposes; retention periods; and processing operations and procedures, including
including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those
provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in
chapter IX. Union law or the law of the Member States serves an objective
of public interest and is proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued. »

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest
or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.
In these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be defined either by the law of the European Union or by the law of the State
member to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should "[..] belong to Union law
or the right of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right
could specify the general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the
processing of personal data, establish the specifications aimed at determining the
controller, the type of personal data subject to the
processing, data subjects, entities to which the personal data

2 Opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of its
origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.4.

[ CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

3/22

personal data can be communicated, the limitations of the purpose, the retention period
and other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing [.4].

Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that "['where this Regulation makes
reference to a legal basis or to a legislative measure, this does not mean
necessarily that the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament is required, without prejudice
obligations provided for under the constitutional order of the Member State concerned.
However, this legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and its
application should be foreseeable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of the
Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights”.

Although the draft law provides a legal basis for the processing in question by specifying
a certain number of elements, such as the purposes of the processing or the duration of
retention of data, some points are not sufficiently specified in the project
of law.

The CNPD will come back to this point later, but would like to point out the mention,
in the financial statement of the project under review, the creation of a "computer tool for the
safeguarding highly sensitive confidential character data”. Indeed, neither the
the bill itself, nor the explanatory memorandum refer to this computer tool.

There is therefore reason to wonder about its use in the context of exercising access to
origins, in particular with regard to any processing of personal data
personnel carried out using this tool. What data are required to appear in this
tool ? How is this tool powered? In the context of secret childbirth
in particular, does this mean that an authorized person opens the envelopes received to insert
then the information in the computer tool? What is then the fate of the support
physical ? Do subcontractors act in the operation and management of this tool?
These various questions should be answered in the text of the bill. Of the
appropriate technical and organizational security measures adapted to the risks,
given the sensitivity of the data, must in any case be put in place
by the controller(s) in accordance with Article 32 of the GDPR. Furthermore, in
case of recourse to subcontractors, the obligations incumbent both on the person responsible for the
processing only to subcontractors pursuant to Articles 28 and 29 of the GDPR will be intended
to apply.

II. As for the roles of the various stakeholders

While the authors of the bill are to be commended for taking care to determine the
minister as data controller3, inaccuracies as to the roles of the different
stakeholders remain.

Indeed, it emerges from the comments on the articles that hospitals play a
important role during secret births insofar as they constitute the most
often “the first and only contact of the future mothers in question”4.

3 Article 4, paragraph 1 of the bill

See commentary on article 5 of the bill

[ CNPI1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

'WHERE. ln
PROMC11121.
utt,Or.e.

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

4/22

Thus, article 5 of the draft law stipulates that the hospital establishment must inform the Minister
secret birth and provide the birth parents with a number
information. The same obligations are incumbent on any other professional supervising the
birth that takes place in a place other than a hospital establishment.

Under article 6 of the bill, it is up to the hospital establishment or any other
professional who supervised the birth to collect a certain amount of information
concerning the birth parents and forward them to the Minister.

In the context of Articles 16 and 17 which deal with “other national adoptions” as well as
"international adoptions", other actors are called upon to provide information to
namely the "judicial authorities", "the central authority for adoption within the meaning of the Convention
of The Hague of 29 May 1993 on the protection of children and co-operation in matters
of international adoption, the organizations authorized and qualified for adoption in accordance with
ä the law of 31 January 1998 on the approval of adoption services and the definition of
obligations incumbent on them” and “any other body or national authority involved in the
framework of adoption.

Articles 19 and 20 of Chapter 3 (access to knowledge of one's origins within the framework
of medically assisted procreation with a third party donor) of the bill introduce
still other actors likely to provide personal data, namely the
"authors of the parental project", the "fertilization centres" as well as "any doctor responsible for
to implement medically assisted procreation”.

If article 4, paragraph 1 of the bill expressly determines the minister as
controller, there is no such clarity for the other actors. Indeed the
other actors set out in the bill, such as, for example, the hospital establishment or
any other professional who supervised the birth in the context of childbirth under
secret, or even for the ART the authors of the parental project or the fertility centers, or for
other national and international adoptions judicial authorities or the central authority
for adoption, play a key role in the collection of personal data and their
subsequent transmission to the controller.

However, it is important to determine in the bill the role of the various stakeholders
that the notions of “controller”, “joint controller” and
"processor" are essential for the application of the GDPR insofar as they
determine who is responsible for compliance with data protection rules
and how data subjects can exercise their rights.

The draft law should therefore clearly indicate whether all these stakeholders are to be considered
as full controllers, joint controllers or
as subcontractors.

Moreover, as according to the current drafting of the text, the minister is to be considered as
sole data controller, the Commission Nationale wonders whether this observation implies
that there is creation of a centralized file of data to be considered as highly sensitive.
Indeed, the obligation incumbent on the various players to provide information to the
responsible for the treatment implies that they occupy a function of source of information
of the minister who, for his part, keeps and manages the information.

NOC1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

5/22

In this context, the attention of the drafters of the bill should be drawn to the lines
guidelines drawn up by the European Data Protection Board, which serves as the
guidance to actors in determining their respective roles for the processing of
personal data5.

Ill. As for the purposes

Pursuant to the principle of purpose limitation provided for in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), of the
GDPR, personal data must be "collected for the purposes
determined, explicit and legitimate”. The objectives pursued must be chosen and known
before the start of treatment. In addition, they must be precisely defined and refer
ä one or more specific goals (determined and explicit purposes).

If the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for having specified the purposes of the processing
which would be implemented by the Minister in Article 4(3) of the draft law, the
provisions are, however, drafted too vaguely in that they limit themselves to providing
that “1.1.1 the processing of this data is necessary for the purposes of implementing the
seeking access for a child to his or her origins in the context of adoption or
medically assisted procreation with third party donors”.

Indeed, on reading the bill, it should be noted that the search for access to a
child at its origins revolves mainly around four objectives:

the compilation of files by the Minister on the basis of information received under the
Articles 6, 10(3°), 10(4°), 10(5°), 20, 27 or sought under Articles 16, 17 and
25 paragraph 3;
the Minister's management of access requests received by children under the
Articles 11 and 22 of the bill;
the management by the Minister of the requests of the birth parent(s) inquiring
any research by the child under Article 10 (6°) of the bill;
the communication to the children of their files and/or of the information collected.

-

-

-

Thus, the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 3 of the draft law are too general in
that they do not make it possible to cover the plurality of the purposes of the processing which would be
implemented by the minister under the bill.

For example, and as noted by the Council of State, in its opinion of July 16, 2021, as to
the provisions of Article 25, paragraph (3), of the draft law which provide that the Minister
may consult the archives of the court which pronounced the adoption or, if necessary,
consult international protection files if there is any indication that one or both
birth parents were beneficiaries of such protection, that such consultation
“lies in the search for clues to the identity of the birth parents. The state Council
considers that, from a data protection perspective, this is a purpose that must be
mentioned in the text”6.

5 Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR
6 See observations made by the Council of State on the subject of article 25 of the bill in its opinion no. 60.376 of 16 July
2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins within the framework of a
adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.14.

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

6/22

In addition, article 10 of the draft law, points 90 and 10°, provides that the Minister has the task of
to “manage and process the information collected” and “to review and manage requests
of access to knowledge of one's origins for the persons referred to in Article 11”.

In addition, under article 21 point 3° of the draft law, the minister still has the task of "to
receive, manage and process the information referred to in Article 20”.

However, in the absence of explanations in the commentary to the articles, there is reason to wonder about
the processing of personal data that would be implemented within the framework of this
assignment.

The National Commission wonders whether it would not be appropriate to clarify the various
data processing that would be implemented by the Minister as part of his
missions, also with a view to improving legal certainty. This would in fact allow
to improve the general understanding of the draft law and to guarantee legal certainty.

It follows from the foregoing that it appears that the purpose described in Article 4(3) of the
bill seems too vague in relation to the requirement of the GDPR to provide for purposes
determined and explicit, especially in an area as sensitive as is supposed to regulate
the bill under notice.

For all intents and purposes, it appears from the commentary to the articles that article 4, paragraph 5 of the draft
of law aims to specify the various obligations incumbent on the minister as responsible
of the treatment. However, it should be noted that the enumeration given there is limited to copying certain
principles listed in Article 5 of the GDPR.

In its opinion of July 16, 2021, the Council of State notes, in fact, that "[lie paragraph 5 does not
merely recalls the principles set out in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of natural persons ä
with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection of
data). Since this European regulation is of direct application, the provision under
journal is to be deleted. 7 The National Commission concurs with the observation of the Conseil d'Etat.

IV. Regarding the categories of personal data

It should be noted that article 4 of the bill which "constitutes the legal basis for the
management, collection and processing of data in question”8 does not specify the categories of
data that would be collected by the Minister “for the purpose of implementing research

Opinion No. 60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of its
origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.5
8 See commentary to the articles, article 4, page 15.

[ CNPI5

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

7/22

of a child's access to his or her origins in the context of adoption or procreation
medically assisted with third-party donors”9.

In addition, and as noted by the Council of State, paragraph (4) of the aforementioned article 410 is
superfluous "
failure to list the data processed or to refer to the provision
specifies who is listing the data”.

Indeed, it should be noted that the categories of data that would be processed in such
purposes result from the provisions of Articles 6, 10, 11, 16, 17, 20, 22, 25, 26 and 27 of the draft
law.

Articles 6, 10 and 11 are part of Chapter 2 "Access to knowledge of one's origins
in the context of an adoption”, section Pre “National adoption”, sub-section 'Ore
“Secret childbirth”, article 16 of the sub-section “Other adoptions
national” and article 17 of section 2 “International adoption” of the said chapter.

Articles 20 and 22 belong to Chapter 3 "Access to knowledge of one's origins
in the context of medically assisted procreation with a third party donor" and Articles 25
ä 27 are part of Chapter 5 “Transitional provisions and entry into force”.

It would indeed be preferable, as suggested by the Council of State, to group together in a single
article and to enumerate according to the cases (childbirth under X, national adoption,
international adoption, PMA), the categories of data that would be processed.
Alternatively, consideration could be given to including a list at the beginning of each chapter
the categories of data that would be processed in the implementation of this chapter.

A. Regarding Article 9 of the GDPR

First of all, it should be noted that insofar as part of the data processed by
controller are likely to relate to the health of the parents of the
birth, for secret deliveries and national and international adoptions,
or third-party donors, for medically assisted procreation, these are to be qualified
special categories of data, known as "sensitive data", within the meaning of Article 9 of the
GDPR.

However, such processing requires specific protection" and is subject to specific requirements.
more stringent. The processing of "sensitive data" is, in fact, prohibited unless one of the
conditions referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the GDPR are met.

Thus, during the implementation of the processing of so-called sensitive data, the person in charge of the
processing must pay particular attention to compliance with the provisions of Article 9, paragraph
(2) GDPR.

g Article 4, paragraph (3) of the draft of thee.
'g Article 4, paragraph (4) of the bill provides that "[in] this context personal data
which are covered by this bill”.
" See the cases rendered by the CJEU of April 8, 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of October 5, 1994, C-404/92, point 17.

CNPEI

CO•ontni3ON

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

8/22

B. As to the personal data covered by the provisions of Chapter

2 of the bill

1. Ad article 6 of the bill

Article 6 of the bill deals with the various information that the hospital establishment or
any other professional having supervised the birth are required to collect and transmit
to the minister.

i.

Legal uncertainty linked to the vagueness of the terms used

The terms used in Article 6 are vague so that it is difficult to know what
information would be likely to be collected and transmitted to the minister and, if
appropriate, to the child.

Indeed, it emerges from that article that birth parents are invited to leave
"medical information about [their] health, and that of the other birth parent,
information about the origins of the child, the circumstances of the child from birth as well as
than any other information they] wish to make available to [their] child”12.

The authors of the bill in the commentary to the articles specify on this subject that the
birth parents are asked to leave "any kind of information" and that the
aforementioned information constitutes “non-identifying information”13.

The authors of the bill therefore do not provide any explanation of what is meant
by “non-identifying information”.

However, it should be emphasized that the GDPR will apply to any information
relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. Recital 26 GDPR
specifies that "To determine whether a natural person is identifiable, it is necessary to
consider all the means reasonably likely to be used
by the data controller or by any other person to identify the person
directly or indirectly […]”.

Thus, the CNPD suggests that the accumulation of information, even qualified as "non-
identifiers", entails the risk of (re)identification of the natural person in question,
resulting in the application of data protection rules.

Article 6, paragraph 3, of the bill further provides for the obligation for the establishment
hospital as well as any other professional having supervised the birth to collect

12 Article 6, paragraph 1, point 2° and paragraph 2, point 10 of the bill
13 Commentary on the articles, article 6 page 17
14 Article 4(1) GDPR

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

9/22

“non-identifying information”. The authors of the bill do not yet bring into their
commentary on the articles no details as to the information that would be collected.

Furthermore, it should be noted that article 12 of the bill subsequently uses the terms
“information that does not affect the identity of one or more birth parents”. The
CNPD assumes that this is the "non-identifying information" referred to in Article 6. In order
To avoid confusion, it is suggested that the same terminology be used throughout the entire
law Project.

Finally, there is still reason to note that the option is left to the birth parents to
a declaration of his identity16, in which case this information is to be considered as
personal data.

The CNPD assumes that the authors of the bill under opinion were inspired by French law
of August 2, 2021 relating to bioethics which provides that in the context of a PMA third parties
donors must provide not only their identity, but also data "not
identifiers”. Indeed, article 5 of the said French law inserts a chapter in the code of
public health on “Access to non-identifying data and to the identity of third-party donors”.
This chapter notably includes article L. 2143-3. which includes a list of data not
identifiers of third-party donors, namely: their age, their general condition as they describe it in
time of donation, their physical characteristics, their family and professional situation, their
country of birth as well as the reasons for their donation, written by them.

Consequently, given the vagueness of the terms used by the authors of the bill
and the resulting legal vagueness, it should be noted that the bill under opinion does not respect
not the requirements of clarity, precision and foreseeability to which a legal text must
respond, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and
the European Court of Human Rights16.

In order to counter this legal uncertainty as to the categories of data which would be processed
and ensure compliance of the Luxembourg legal framework with the GDPR and case law
European Union, the CNPD suggests that the authors of the bill specify, following the example of the law
French relating to bioethics of August 2, 2021, which categories of data would be
likely to be dealt with by the Minister.

In any event, the imprecision of the terms used complicates, if not renders impossible, the
task of the National Commission to assess whether the draft law respects the principle of
minimization of data according to Article 5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR according to which

15 Article 6, paragraph (1), points 2° and 3°, and paragraph (2), points 2° and 3° of the bill
16 In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in
Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e.
Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015, ECtHR, Vavrieka and others v. Czech Republic (requests
n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, April 8, 2021.

[ CN

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

10/22

personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.
The necessary character is assessed in relation to the purpose of the processing as defined by
authors of the bill, namely "the implementation of the search for a child's access
to its origins […]”17. However, as mentioned in point II.B. vagueness as to the purposes
researched, do not make it possible to determine to what extent the treatment of these
data is necessary to exercise the right to know its origins.

The processing of health data

Article 6, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the bill provides for the possibility for the parent who has
gave birth to the child to leave "medical information about his health and that of the other
birth parent" or respectively for the other birth parent to leave
"medical information about his health and that of the parent who delivered the child".

Moreover, article 6, paragraph 3, of the bill creates the obligation for the establishment
hospital as well as for any other professional having supervised the birth to "collect
as far as possible [...] the medical data of one or both parents of the
birth at birth and transmit them to the Minister".

This information relating to the health of the birth parents, and whether this constitutes
personal data, constitute so-called sensitive data. The treatment of
such data must therefore be based on one of the conditions referred to in Article 9(2).
of the GDPR. On this point, reference is made to point A of point IV of this opinion.

Furthermore, it is to be regretted that neither the explanatory memorandum nor the commentary on the articles
provide explanations as to the methods of processing "medical data".

In this context, the National Commission agrees with the concerns raised by the
Council of State with regard to article 6 of the bill and in particular in that it considers that "[s]i
parents are not asked to reveal the identity of the other parent, they can nevertheless
leave medical information about the other parent. However, it is up to each parent to decide
if he wants to communicate medical information about his health. How to articulate the choice
left to the parent not to communicate his medical data with the possibility for the other
parent to provide them without his knowledge? If the legislator allows each parent not to
communicate information about his health or his identity, it is difficult to see how
articulate respect for these respective secrets” 18.

In this context, the National Commission asks itself the question of how the
controller intends to respect the principle of accuracy, provided for in article 5,

1' Article 4, paragraph 3, of the bill
Opinion No. 60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of its
origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.6 to 8

NOC1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

11/22

paragraph 1, letter d) of the GDPR. The National Commission refers in this respect to its
developments on compliance with the principle of accuracy in point VIII of this opinion.

It should also be pointed out that the vagueness of the words "to the extent of the
possible” repeated in article 6, paragraph 3, of the draft law results in legal vagueness,
in such a way as to note that the bill under opinion does not meet the requirements of clarity,
precision and predictability that a legal text must meet, in accordance with the
case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Rights
of man.

In addition, it is still necessary to question the relationship between the obligation for
the hospital establishment, as well as for any other professional who supervised the birth,
provided for by article 6, paragraph 3, of the bill, and the medical secrecy to which are subject
These persons.

2. Ad article 10 of the bill

Article 10, point 5°, of the draft law provides that the Minister is required to receive "Nes
declarations of identity formulated by the ascendants, descendants and collaterals of the parents
of birth »

However, the bill does not provide any further details or explanations as to the
categories of personal data which would appear on the said “declarations
of identity”.

In addition, there is reason to wonder about the way in which this data would be collected:
is it up to the ascendants, descendants and collaterals to address the minister directly
? How will the Minister ensure that statements of identity are attributed to the child
concerned, given that only the first names and sex of the child as well as the date and place
of birth (and not the identity of the birth parents) are mentioned outside
envelopes referred to in article 6 of the bill? Will the minister check whether there is in fact a
relationship between these people and the birth parents?

Under clauses 13 and 14 of the bill, the minister communicates, together with the identity
of the parent who gave birth to the child or of the other birth parent, the information referred to
in point 5 of article 10. Does this mean that the declarations of identity of
ascendants, descendants and collaterals of the parent who gave birth to the child are communicated
to the child, even if only the other birth parent has granted the lifting of the secrecy of his
identity, and vice versa? Such a way of proceeding would however thwart their desire to
remain anonymous and would infringe on their privacy. The National Commission

'9 In this sense, see M. Besch, "Personal data processing in the public sector", Norms and legislation in
Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e.
Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavheka and others v. Czech Republic (requests
n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, April 8, 2021.

[CNPL]

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

12/22

considers that the authors of the bill should specify the practical arrangements applicable
to the declarations of identity made by the ascendants, descendants and collaterals of the
birth parents.

3. Ad article 16 of the bill

For requests for access to origins made by children who have been the subject of a
national adoption but not falling under the secret birth regime, it
results from article 16 of the bill that the Minister "collects information relating to
the identity of the parent who gave birth to the child and of the other birth parent with the
judicial authorities”.

However, neither the commentary to the articles nor the explanatory memorandum specify what is meant
by "identity information". Is it only the surname and first name or this notion
does it also target other data, such as the address?

In addition, the bill does not specify the terms under which the minister would obtain
such "information".

Clarifications should be made on this subject in article 16 of the bill in order to clarify
what data would be collected and how the Minister would collect it.

4. Ad article 17 of the bill

Article 17 of the bill intends to regulate the management of requests for access to origins
formulated by children who have been the subject of international adoption.

Under the provisions of the aforementioned article, the Minister may obtain "upon request" from the
from the bodies referred to in that article "all information relating to the origins of
adopted".

However, this formulation is particularly vague and requires clarification. Indeed, there is
question what the authors of the bill intended to mean by "the
information relating to the origins of the adoptee”. What information would be covered
concretely ?

The Minister may also obtain "from the authorities of the country of origin of the child all the
information he can obtain about the origins of the child. This wording is also
particularly vague. What information could the Minister collect from
foreign authorities?

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

13/22

In this regard, it should be noted that the Hague Convention of 29 May 1993 on the protection
of children and cooperation in matters of international adoption already has in
its article 16, paragraph 1, letter a) that:

“If the Central Authority of the State of origin considers that the child is adoptable,
(a) it draws up a report containing information on the identity of the child, his
adoptability, social background, personal and family development, medical history and
that of his family, as well as his particular needs; (...)”.

In addition, the Hague Convention of 29 May 1993 on the protection of children and
cooperation in respect of intercountry adoption further explicitly provides in Article 16,
paragraph 2 which the Central Authority of the State of origin "transmits to the Central Authority of the State
foster parent his report on the child, proof of the required consents and the reasons for his
report on the placement, taking care not to reveal the identity of the mother and father, if, in
the State of origin, this identity cannot be disclosed".

Therefore, the National Commission wonders what additional information
could, where appropriate, be collected whereas the aforementioned provisions provide that a
report on the child will be transmitted to the Central Authority of the receiving State.

C. Regarding the personal data referred to in Chapter 3 of the bill

Article 20 enshrines the obligation of the authors of the parental project to provide the person responsible for the
processing, i.e. to the Minister, the information listed in points 1° to 4° of the said article.

While the inclusion of a specific list of information to be provided to the Minister is to be welcomed, it
should consider the information that would be referred to in the last paragraph of the
paragraph 1 of article 20 which provides that "any other information available on the
third-party donors may also be disclosed”.

Indeed, the notion of "any information" is very vague and the commentary of the articles
does not provide any details in this regard.

However, it should be recalled that by virtue of the principle of minimization of data, devoted to
5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR, the personal data must be
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
which they are processed.

In the absence of such details, the CNPD is unable to assess whether such a principle
would be respected and therefore considers it necessary for the bill to determine precisely what
personal data would be liable to be declared to the Minister.

[ CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

14/22

In the current state of the bill, the authors of the parental project could deem it appropriate
to transmit to the minister so-called sensitive data, such as for example data
concerning the health of the third-party donor(s), who are nevertheless subject to a stricter regime
strict. The National Commission refers in this respect to its developments in point IV.A. from
this notice.

Furthermore, it should be noted that the obligation to provide this information rests,
in accordance with article 20, paragraph 1 of the bill under notice, to the parents of the project
parental. The CNPD notes that article 19 of the bill further provides that "the center of
fertilization, any doctor in charge of implementing medically assisted procreation
as well as the authors of the parental project have the obligation to check whether the information listed
ä article 20, point 4 are in the file before the insemination of the gametes or
implantation of supernumerary embryos”. She further notes that among the information to be
provide appear in point 4° of the 1 st paragraph of article 20 "the identity of the third party
donors including surname, first name, date and place of birth, nationality(ies), current address,
civil status as well as the matricule number if it exists”.

However, the National Commission wonders about the initial source of this information. Is he
belongs to the fertilization center, to the doctor in charge of implementing procreation
medically assisted, to the authors of the parental project or to another intervener
to enter this information in the file referred to in Article 19?

The question arises in particular in the context of the obligation of the controller
to inform the person concerned. Indeed, the National Commission understands that in the
framework of an MAP, the collection of the personal data of the third party donor by the
actors involved, namely the data controller, the authors of the parental project, the
fertilization center or any doctor in charge of carrying out procreation
medically assisted, is operated indirectly, so the information is not
collected directly from the data subject. However, article 14 of the GDPR obliges the
controller to provide certain information to the data subject when
the personal data was not collected from the data subject.
Article 14, paragraph 2, letter f) of the GDPR requires in particular that the person responsible for the
processing informs about "the source from which the personal data come and, the
where applicable, a statement indicating whether or not they are from sources accessible to the
audience ". The National Commission wonders who would be responsible for this obligation, indeed any
other obligation arising from the GDPR, if, as mentioned in point II of this notice, the roles
(controller, joint controller or processor) of the various
stakeholders is unclear.

In the absence of details, the CNPD is unable to verify whether the requirements of the
GDPR towards the data subject would be complied with by the bill under notice.

NOC1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

15122

D. As to the personal data referred to in the provisions of Chapter

5 of the bill

1.

Ad article 25 of the bill

It appears from the commentary to the articles that article 25 of the bill is aimed at children born before
the entry into force of the future law in the context of a secret birth.

Paragraph 2, subparagraph 1, of article 25 provides that "hospital establishments,
other professionals who supervised the birth of the child [...], as well as the organizations
authorized and authorized for adoption in accordance with the law of January 31, 1998 on the approval
adoption services and definition of their obligations as well as any other
national body or authority involved in the context of the adoption have the obligation to
communicate elements relating to the identity of the birth parents or any other
information, file and material object left by the birth parent(s) to the Minister
in the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph in a closed envelope”.

According to the commentary to the articles, this provision constitutes the legal basis for these various
stakeholders to "transfer all the files they hold to the Minister" without, however,
specify what personal data would be collected for this purpose
opportunity.

If there is reason to salute the authors of the bill for creating a legal basis allowing
aforementioned stakeholders to communicate to the Minister the information they were able to gather before
the entry into force of the law, in the absence of details as to the categories of data to be
personal nature that would be communicated in this context, the National Commission
is unable to assess whether the principle of data minimization would be in this case
respected.

It should be recalled that under the principle of minimization, personal data
personnel must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in view of
of the purposes for which they are processed.

In accordance with this principle, the various parties mentioned above should therefore ensure
ä transmit to the Minister only personal data that is adequate, relevant and
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.

Finally, insofar as the following terms "have the obligation to communicate elements
relating to the identity of the birth parents or any other information, file and object
material left by the birth parent(s) to the Minister" are worded in such a way
vague, and that the commentary on the articles does not provide any precision in this respect, the
National Commission therefore considers it necessary for the bill to determine precisely

CM:1

COM•ele.

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

1101,Cteld
Jr%{,“Rt.1

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

16/22

what personal data would be likely to be communicated to the
minister.

2.

Ad article 26 of the bill

Under article 26 of the bill, concerning other national adoptions as well as
international adoptions, the organizations mentioned therein have the obligation to communicate
elements relating to the identity of the birth parents or any other information, file and
material object left by the birth parent(s) to the Minister [...] in a sealed envelope" and
that "the first names given to the child and, where appropriate, mention of the fact that they were given by
birth mother or other birth parent to the competent minister as well as the sex of
the child and the date, place and time of his birth are mentioned outside these envelopes”.

If the authors of the bill are to be commended for specifying the data that would be
communicated to the Minister, it is regrettable that the terms "any other information,
file" are too vague so that the CNPD is unable to assess whether the principle
minimization would be respected.

The authors of the bill should provide clarification in this regard.

Furthermore, it should be noted that such an obligation does not exist under Articles 16 and 17
of the bill, would it therefore not be appropriate to align this transitional provision with what
what is foreseen in these articles?

v.

On access to the RNPP and civil status registers

Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR, personal data
must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes
for which they are processed.

Article 4, paragraph 6 of the bill provides for the possibility for the Minister to consult the
national register of natural persons (hereinafter the “RNPP”) as well as the registers of
civil status.

The provision is limited to indicating that the data controller has this access
“within the scope of the purpose determined in paragraph 3”. Neither the commentary of the articles, nor
the explanatory memorandum does not provide details as to the reasons which would justify such access.

However, there is reason to wonder about the articulation of these provisions with those relating to Article
9 of the bill which provide that no investigation would be conducted into the
information provided by the parent who delivered the child or the other birth parent.

Thus, there is reason to wonder whether the consultation of the RNPP and civil status registers
would allow the controller to verify the reality of the relationship between these

CNPII

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

17/22

people and birth parents? For the sake of legal certainty, clarifications
should be made to the bill on this subject.

The CNPD is therefore not in a position to assess whether consultation of the RNPP and the registers
of civil status complies with the principle of data minimization provided for in Article 5, paragraph
1, letter c) of the GDPR.

VI. On access to court archives as referred to in Article 25 of the draft

law

Article 25, paragraph 3 of the bill provides that the minister "may consult the archives
of the jurisdiction that pronounced the adoption as well as the international protection files
with the Minister responsible for international protection within his jurisdiction”.

The National Commission wonders what the verb "to consult" means. Is it a
request for access that the minister submits to the minister with international protection
within its purview? Or is it direct access? The National Commission wonders
even if the data resulting from this consultation will be integrated into the centralized file
managed by the minister.

Furthermore, it is appropriate to agree with the observations of the Conseil d'Etat as to the purpose of a
such consultation which should be added to the purposes mentioned in Article 4, paragraph 3,
of the bill under notice'.

VII.

On the security of the processing

It should also be recalled that the applicable data protection rules
apply regardless of the techniques used, i.e. both to the data
called to be contained in a paper file than a computer file.

This reminder seems necessary given that, for adoptions following deliveries under secret
for example, the information provided, including personal data, seems
be written on paper in a closed envelope. The folds are then forwarded to the minister.

With regard to the security of the processing, point 4 of paragraph 5 of article 4 of the draft
of law indicates that the controller must put in place technical measures
and organizational to ensure the security and confidentiality of personal data
personal, without however giving any details.

However, this general safety obligation comes under both Article 5, paragraph 1, letter f) of the
GDPR which enshrines the principle of integrity and confidentiality and article 32 of the GDPR which

20 Opinion No. 60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of its
origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.5

CNPI1

CONUNO ON

•Ol.e

11101[LVON

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

18/22

further clarifies the notion of data security in the context of data protection.
personal data.

In this case, the obligation of the data controller to guarantee an appropriate level of security
the risks to the rights and freedoms of the natural persons concerned by the processing
of personal data envisaged, deserves particular attention insofar as
unauthorized access to data, data leaks or unauthorized modifications
desired are likely to cause serious harm to the persons concerned.

Thus, given the nature of the data processed in question, it is essential that such
security measures are implemented by the controller in order to ensure the
privacy and data security. Among these security measures, the Commission
national considers it important that only people who need it in the exercise of their
functions and their professional tasks are authorized to have access to the data
required.

In the event that a computer tool is used to process the data in question, this
which seems to be the case in view of the bill's financial statement, it would be necessary to provide
an access logging system. On this point, the CNPD recommends that the data
of logging are kept for a period of five years from their date of
registration, period after which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a
control procedure.

The CNPD also emphasizes the importance of proactively carrying out internal controls. HAS
For this purpose, it is necessary in accordance with Article 32, paragraph 1, letter d) of the GDPR to put
implement a procedure "to regularly test, analyze and evaluate the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing”.

In addition, the National Commission considers it essential, given the sensitivity of certain
data processed, to provide for the procedures for implementing this principle of integrity and
confidentiality in a legislative or at least regulatory text.

VIII.

The rights of data subjects

As birth parents are likely to be referred to as data subjects
within the meaning of the GDPR for the processing of data which results from the bill, it is necessary to
recall that Article 5, paragraph 1, letter a) as well as Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the GDPR
require the data controller to act in complete transparency with regard to data subjects
concerned by providing them in particular with certain information on the processing of
personal data envisaged.

CNPCI

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

19/22

In the event that the Minister indirectly collects personal data,
as it seems to result in particular from article 5, 16 or even 17 of the bill, the
Minister will have to comply with the provisions of Article 14 of the GDPR.

In this context, the attention of the drafters of the bill should be drawn to Article 14,
paragraph 4, of the GDPR according to which "[I]t intends to carry out processing
subsequent processing of personal data for a purpose other than that for which the
personal data has been obtained, the controller shall provide the
prior to the person concerned information about this other purpose and any
other relevant information referred to in paragraph 2”.

Paragraph 5 of this article lists the cases in which paragraphs 1 ä
4 do not apply. If the authors of the bill intend to invoke Article 14, paragraph
5, letter c) of the GDPR to justify, if necessary, the fact of not providing the information
mentioned in paragraphs 1 to 4, it should be emphasized that such an exemption cannot
apply only if national law "provides for appropriate measures to protect the
legitimate interests of the data subject”.

With regard to the personal data relating to the third party donor which would be
collected pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 4 of the draft law, it is necessary to draw
the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that the latter has a right to information
pursuant to Article 14 of the GDPR or a right of rectification, which is conferred on him by
GDPR Article 16. He should therefore be able to contact the controller to
request the rectification of data which may no longer be up to date or inaccurate.

In addition, clause 6 of the bill provides that the parent who gave birth to the child may transmit
information about the other birth parent, and vice versa. GDPR Article 14
would therefore be intended to apply insofar as this provision specifies the
information to be provided by the controller when the personal data
personal data have not been collected from the person concerned.

In general, and given the purpose of the bill, the National Commission
asks how the rights of data subjects would relate to some of the
provisions of the draft sub-notice.

Indeed, in addition to the aforementioned right to information, the GDPR confers other rights on
data subjects whom the controller is required to respect, in particular the
right of access and the right of rectification provided for respectively in article 15 and article 16 of the
GDPR. In the context of the draft law under opinion, the question arises in particular as to whether
how the controller intends to implement in practice the requirements that
ensue for him from these rights. How does the controller intend
communicate to the persons concerned the information necessary in the context of the
right to information, in particular if it collects personal data in a manner

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

20/22

indirect? How can data subjects exercise their rights? In
the hypothesis of a secret birth for which no declaration of identity has been
received, but for which the hospitals communicate “non-
identifiers", how does the controller intend to respond to a request
right of access?

In addition, questions also arise about the respect, by the person responsible for the
processing, of the principles relating to the processing of personal data
to Article 5 of the GDPR. Thus, the data controller must, for example, ensure that it processes
personal data in a lawful, fair and transparent manner with regard to the
person concerned (principle of lawfulness, fairness and transparency) and only data
accurate and, if necessary, kept up to date (principle of accuracy). So how does the manager
of the processing intends to ensure that it does not process personal data of a
data subject without the latter's knowledge? How can the controller
he ensures the accuracy of the data, in particular if the data is collected in a manner
indirect? Similarly, how can he ensure the accuracy of the identity data
provided directly if, in the event of a secret birth, no verification
(article 9 of the bill under opinion) is planned?

Thus, if the authors of the bill intend to limit the scope of the rights of persons
concerned, or even the obligations incumbent on the data controller, by having recourse
ä the possibility provided by Article 23 of the GDPR such a limitation should be provided for by a
legislative measures and meet the criteria and requirements listed in that article.

x. On the shelf life

According to the principle of limitation of storage set out in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter
e) GDPR, personal data shall not be stored for longer than
as long as necessary for the achievement of the purposes for which they are collected
and processed. Beyond that, the data must be deleted or permanently anonymized.

If the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for providing in article 4, paragraph 2 of the bill
by law a data retention period, namely for 100 years and that the data
would be destroyed after the expiry of this period, the National Commission finds itself
in the impossibility of assessing whether, in this case, the principle of limitation of storage
is respected.

In fact, neither the commentary on the articles nor the explanatory memorandum provide explanations
as to the criteria used to determine this retention period for the
data.

It should be noted that in accordance with Article 11, paragraph 3, point 5 of the draft law, the
request for access to knowledge of origins can be submitted by the descendants in
direct line of age of the child up to the 1st degree, if he is deceased. Therefore the duration of
would the 100-year conservation aim to allow first-degree direct descendants
to exercise their right of access to origins?

[ CNPO

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law n°7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

21/22

It should also be noted that the bill does not provide for the deletion of data
once the child has exercised his right of access to origins. She assumes
that the data is kept to allow, if necessary, the direct descendants at the
first degree to exercise this right in turn.

However, in the absence of explanations as to the criteria used to determine this period of
retention of data by the authors of the bill, the CNPD cannot comment
on the proportionality of the time limit adopted. Such clarifications should therefore be made
by the authors of the bill.

X.

Data protection impact assessment

Article 35, paragraph 10, of the GDPR, read together with article 36, paragraphs 1 and 4, of the
GDPR indicate that in the process of drafting a legislative measure to be adopted by
a national parliament, the authors of this legislative measure may have to realize
a data protection impact assessment (hereinafter "the DPIA"), and that the result of the
the DPIA could lead to prior consultation of the competent national authority, in
the CNPD in this case.

Since it follows from Article 35(1) of the GDPR that a DPIA should be
carried out if the envisaged processing is likely to create a high risk for the rights
and freedoms of natural persons taking into account the nature, scope, context and
purposes of the processing, the National Commission wonders whether the processing envisaged by
the bill under opinion should not have been the subject of a DPIA by the authors. The case
appropriate, the DPIA would have indicated that the processing presents a high risk, thus leading the
authors of the bill, possibly already at the stage of drafting the bill,
ä consult the CNPD.

Thus decided in Belvaux on November 29, 2021.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen

President

Thierry Lallemang

Commissioner

come back
Commissioner

Alain Hermann
Commissioner

P'=

CNPII

•••y• hard

R01,1,0,1
^,CC•141.5

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7674 on the organization of access to knowledge of its

origins in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with a third party

donors

22/22

