1/5

 File No.: EXP202103988

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 20,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the one who identifies as Don B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereafter, the party claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

“The presence of a video surveillance camera oriented towards me continues.

private property affecting my personal and/or family privacy” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of at least one device affecting its private area.

SECOND: On November 8, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

THIRD: After consulting the database of this Agency, it is associated with the
claimed a previous procedure with number PS/00497/2020 that ended with
Resolution of Warning to the same for identical facts to those now analyzed,
imposing compliance with measures in relation to the system subject to
claim.

ADDRESS a warning to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of
articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction
warning tion.

FOURTH: On January 18, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 02/07/22, a reply is received from the party complained against
expressing "his disagreement with the accusation made against him" by having
the cameras on your property and recording only your private space and arguing
various irregularities in the cameras installed by the claimant.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 10/20/21 through the
which translates as the main fact the following:

“The presence of a video surveillance camera oriented towards me continues.

private property affecting my personal and/or family privacy” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., who states that
"Third-party space is not affected, but private space."

In support of his arguments, he provides documentary evidence (Annex I) with which

observed with the installed cameras.

Third. There is no accredited capture of the claimant's private space, nor is there
observe the dwelling of the same in the frames provided by the claimed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

 In the present case, the claim dated 10/20/21 is examined by me-
which is transferred as the main fact "presence of video-surveillance camera
company that is oriented towards my particular property” (folio nº 1).

The facts denounced suppose an affectation to the content of art. 5.1 c) GDPR
(regulations currently in force) that provides: “personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such extremes.
We report to the competent authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards their private space.
vative avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the objective environment.
of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area, avoiding intimidation of neighboring neighbors who are unaware
know whether or not they process personal data.

Fake cameras can also affect personal privacy.
of the claimed, in such a way that it is a criterion maintained by this Agency that
they limit their radius of action (orientation) towards a private area, respecting the
tranquility of the private life of the affected, who does not have to know the nature
of the system, but neither can he bear to be intimidated by it in his personal sphere.
nal and/or domestic.

The video-surveillance sign(s) must contemplate the current regulations—RGPD—
indicating at least the person responsible for the treatment, how to exercise the rights of
Articles 12-22 RGPD and a contact address must be visible from the ex-
interior.

III

In accordance with the allegations put forward by the respondent, it is not verified
capture of private space of the claimant, being the same oriented towards
his private property, as can be seen in the photographs provided (Annex I).

The accredited facts do not allow to determine any "irregularity" in the system.
issue installed, nor affectation to space reserved for the privacy of the claimant has been
verified, beyond the presence of the cameras, an aspect that is not denied by the
reclaimed.

It is remembered, however, as a result of one of the frames provided by the re-
claimed (a) that he must proceed to place some type of cover in his case (vgr.
a mesh), since, although the camera is inside your property, where it is
observes a guard dog, it captures, being a fence with separation, a por-
minimal tion from outside.

Article 89.1 Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides: "The investigating body will resolve
the completion of the procedure, with filing of the proceedings, without it being necessary
would the formulation of the resolution proposal, when in the procedural instruction
It becomes clear that any of the following circumstances exist:

c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement

administrative.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, no administrative infraction has been accredited in the
framework of data protection, which is why it is appropriate to order the File of the
present procedure.

Both parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake, and must avoid
try to instrumentalize this body with issues more typical of "bad relationship of
neighborhood”, which are related to data protection, recommending adjusting your
behavior to the minimum rules of neighborhood coexistence or, where appropriate, transferring
the facts to the nearest Investigating Court or, where appropriate, Security Forces
of the locality.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
give any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-270122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

