  Deliberation HAB-2020-003 of November 10, 2020 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Nature of the deliberation: Members and agents Legal status: Repealed Date of publication on Légifrance: Tuesday November 17, 2020 Deliberation No. HAB-2020-003 of November 10, 2020 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions The office of the National Commission for Data Processing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data; Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons at regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of penalties, and the free movement of such data; Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3; Having regard to law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 as amended relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2.g), 10, 11 and 19; Considering the decree n ° 2019-536 of May 29, 2019 modified taken for the application of the law of January 6, 1978, in particular its articles 16 to 19 Having regard to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; Having regard to deliberation no. 2019-020 of February 28, 2019 delegating the powers of the National Commission data processing and freedoms in his office; After having heard Mrs. Sophie LAMBREMON, deputy vice-president, in her report, and Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, government commissioner, in his observations; Decides: Article 1: The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties hereinafter designated are empowered és, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code: M. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs Dorine ARNAUDEAU, lawyer in the complaints department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Audrey BACQUIE, assistant in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle BARBÉ , legal assistant in the complaints department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Siré BARRY, legal assistant in the complaints department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Leslie BASSE, legal expert in the control department to the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Nacéra BEKHAT, lawyer in the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Khadija BELGHITI- ALAOUI, assistant to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Justine BERTAUD du CHAZAUD, lawyer in the social issues and resource department these human beings in the compliance department;Mr. Thomas BIZET, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms. Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Maxime BLANCHOT, Legal Officer in the Controls Department at the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms. Nana BOTCHORICHVILI, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the Compliance Tools Department to the compliance department; Mrs. Soumia BOUASSAM, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, lead health engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, legal expert in the data protection officer department in the compliance department; Ms. Stéphanie BOISSEAU , lawyer in the complaints department in the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Sophie BORY, lawyer in the European and international affairs department; Ms Flora BRAC DE LA PERRIERE, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department ;Ms Justine BRAIVE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Véronique BREMOND, legal expert in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Emilie BRUNET, lawyer in the European and international affairs department; Mrs. Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Marjolaine CASSAR, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Marion de CASTELBAJAC, lawyer in the controls at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Madeleine CAZETTES de SAINT LEGER, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies in the innovation, studies and prospective division in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Lucie CHARTRAIN, lawyer in the complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Virginie CLAUDE- LOONIS, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Nastassia COGNÉE, Legal Officer in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research; Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, compliance director; Ms Justine DEBOTÉ, assistant in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Christine DECHESNE-CEARD, head of the public relations department in the relations with the public and research; M. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle DELERUE, assistant in the rights protection and penalties department; Mr. Éric DELISLE, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Head of the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Maryange DICHI, Information Systems Auditor in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Sadio DIOUMASSY, legal assistant in the complaints department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Julien DROCHON, lead information systems auditor in the control department of the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Antoine DROIN, legal expert in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights and Sanctions Protection Department; Ms. Gabrielle DU BOUCHER, legal expert in the Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities Department; Ms. Marie DUBOYS FRESNEY, legal expert in the Economic Affairs Department to the compliance department; Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Louis DUTHEILLET de LAMOTHE, Secretary General; Mrs Viktorija ELENSKI, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs Eve-Line ELLIE, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Personal Protection Department rights and sanctions; Ms. Manon de FALLOIS, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Ms. Anne FONTANILLE, legal expert in the data protection officer department in the compliance department; Ms. Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the Secretary General; Mrs Marie FROMENTIN, lawyer in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Émile GABRIÉ, advisor to the Chairman and the Secretary General; Ms Marion de GASQUET, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Rodolphe GENISSEL, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Deputy Head of the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Ms. Zelda GERARD, lawyer in the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms. Lorena GONZALEZ, lawyer in the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance department; Jérôme GORIN, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Michel GUEDRÉ, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs. Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department; Mrs. Estelle HARY, designer in the department of technological expertise in the department of technology and innovation; Mr. Paul HEBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance; Ms Clarisse HESLAUT, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department at the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Mr. Armand HESLOT, Head of the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department; Ms. Agathe HUBERT, Legal Officer in the Controls Department, Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Sonia HUDELA, Assistant to the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Nathalie JACQUES, Assistant in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Amandine JAMBERT, Expert Engineer in the Technological Expertise Department in the Technologies and of innovation; Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, Legal Assistant in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Véronique JENNEQUIN, Legal Assistant in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Karin KIEFER, Deputy Director of Rights Protection and Sanctions; Ms. Joana KOJUNDZIC, Legal Assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Victoria LAFAY, Legal Officer in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Névine LAHLOU , lawyer in the complaints department in the rights and sanctions protection department; Ms Alice DE LA MURE, lawyer in the data protection officer department in the compliance department; Grégoire DELETTE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance departmentMme Nina LE BONNIEC, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities;Mr. Gwendal LE GRAND, Deputy Secretary General; Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms Isabelle MANTZ, Lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Delphine MARGULIS, Legal Assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department ;Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;Mr. Mrs. . Étienne MAURY, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Ms Marjorie MENAPACE, Legal Officer in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Mrs Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Protection Department rights and penalties; Mr. Thomas MOREAU, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Mr. Mathias MOULIN, director of the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Sophie NERBONNE, director in charge of economic co-regulation; Ms Ingrid NKOUENJIN, head of the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms Rabia OUADDAH, legal expert at the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Marie PACALET, Legal Officer in the Social Issues and Human Resources Department in the Compliance Department; Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, director of technologies and innovation; Mrs Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr Benoît PELLAN, in charge of developing compliance tools at the compliance; Ms Lorraine PERRONNE, jurist in the sovereign affairs and local authorities department; Ms Bertrande PIAT-TAMBAREAU, legal assistant in the complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Antoine PLANCHOT, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Andreea PRIAN, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Florence RAYNAL , Head of the European and International Affairs Department; Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Albane RICHET, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ismini RIGOPOULOU , jurist in the European and international affairs department; Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Valentin ROGER, Head of Information Systems Security at the General Secretariat; Ms Guilda ROSTAMA, Legal Officer in the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, Legal Assistant in the Controls Department in the Data Protection Department rights and sanctions; Mrs Stéphanie SAULNIER, legal expert in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mrs Clémence SCOTTEZ, head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Benoit SEGUIN, Head of the Right of Indirect Access Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Émilie SERUGA-CAU, Head of the Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Lola TAIEB , lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Anne VIDAL, Legal Officer in the Health Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Albine VINCENT, Head of the Personal Protection Delegates Department. data to the compliance department;Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Christophe VIVENT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Clémentine VOISARD, in charge of mission in the public relations department; Mrs Sophie VULLIET-TAVERNIER, director of public relations and research; Article 2: Deliberation no. HAB-2020-002 of July 23, 2020 authorizing CNIL agents verification missions is repealed. Article 3: The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic French.The President, Marie-Laure DENIS