Opinion 13/2021 on  the  draft decision of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Romania regarding the approval of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 23 March 2021

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
PREFIX .............................................................................................................................6
2.2.1
GENERAL REMARKS.........................................................................................................6
2.2.2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ...........................................................7
2.2.3
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................8
2.2.4
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS...............................................................................................8
2.2.5
2.2.6
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................11
Conclusions / Recommendations.................................................................................................11
Final Remarks ...............................................................................................................................12

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference to  Article 43 GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

3

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which
will contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

The Romanian  supervisory authority (hereinafter  “RO SA”) has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 26 January 2021.
The RO national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional
requirements set up by the RO SA, once they are approved by the RO SA, following an opinion from
the Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the RO SA has decided to resort
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of accreditation,  having  put  together
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when
issuing accreditation.

3.

This assessment of RO SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their Annex 1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

4

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the
accreditation of certification bodies.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements.
However,  the Board considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and
review as required.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the RO
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the RO SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the RO SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:

a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering

any deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied

by the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:

Adopted

5

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

e.

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority
must also be applied;

f. Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body;

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 PREFIX

10.

11.

12.

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and
transparency,  the  Board considers  that  such  terms of  cooperation,  where existing,  shall  be made
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.

2.2.2 GENERAL REMARKS

The Board notes that the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include a section on the
scope. In this regard, the Board considers that at least the relevant elements of the Annex should be
added.  In  particular,  it  should  be  clear  that  GDPR  certification  is  only  applicable  to  processing
operations and  controllers  and  processors.  In  addition,  the  Board  considers  that  the  draft
accreditation  requirements  should  clearly  state  that  the  GDPR  has  precedence  over  ISO/IEC
17065/2012, as stated in the Annex. The EDPB thus encourages the RO SA to amend the requirements
accordingly.

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  should  be  drafted  in  a  prescriptive  manner.  Thus,  the
requirements should avoid the word “should” and rather use “shall” or “must”. The EDPB encourages
the RO SA to make the necessary changes in this regard (e.g. in sections 4.1.1, 7.4, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9,
7.11, 7.12, 7.13).

13. With regard to chapter 3 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that the
reference to the WP 261 guidelines is outdated and should be replaced with a reference to the EDPB
guidelines 4/2018. The Board encourages the RO SA to make such amendment.

6

Adopted

14.

15.

16.

17.

In addition, the Board notes that the use of the terms “client” and “customer” are not clear in the text,
especially considering that the definition under the Annex and under ISO 17065 varies. In addition,
some terms used in the requirements should be clarified (e.g. references to “certification subject” or
“subject of the certification” and the references to “object of certification” are unclear; references to
a  “standard”  in  section  7.7  should  clearly  indicate  it  refers  to  the  ISO  17065;  the  reference  to
“supervisory activities” in section 7.8 could be replaced by “monitoring” to avoid confusion instead of
“monitoring”  in  section  7.8;  the  reference  to  “accreditation  procedure”  in  section  7.9  should  be
replaced by “accreditation validity” for the sake of clarity). Thus, the Board encourages the RO SA to
either include a section on definitions or clarify the terms used, and to ensure that clear and consistent
wording  is  used  thorough  the  document  (for  example, by replacing  “opening”  by  “operating”  in
section 7.1 paragraph 2; amending the reference to “the object of certification (including the object
of certification/target of evaluation”) in sections 7.2 and 7.7.; replacing “the entire objective already
certified” by “the entire object already certified” in the second to last paragraph of section 7.4; and so
on).

In addition, the Board encourages the RO SA to ensure that the requirements are drafted in a readable
way and duplications or redundancies are avoided. In this regard, the Board notes that, for example,
the first sentence of section 5.2 is confusing; the second sentence of section 5.2 is a repetition of ISO
17065, the third paragraph of section 5.2 would read better if rephrased as “according to Chapters
5.1.1  and  5.2”;  the  first  sentence  of  the  second  paragraph  in  section  7.12  is  redundant  with  the
previous paragraph; the first sentence of the second paragraph in section 7.3 is also redundant and,
therefore, both paragraphs could be merged (e.g. the first sentence under section 7.3 could refer to
“...binding evaluation methods with respect to the target of evaluation -and taking into account the
data protection law applicable to the client - shall be laid down in the certification agreement”); and
so on.

The Board notes that the requirements refer several times to “the competent SA”. In order to avoid
confusion, and since the competent SA will generally be the RO SA, the Board encourages that such
reference is replaced by “the RO SA” in the following sections: 4.1.1, 4.1.2, 4.2, 5.2, 7.1 first indent,
7.6, 7.10, 7.11 and 7.12.

2.2.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION

The Board notes that point 9 of the section 4.1.2 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements
(“certification agreement”) include the obligation to “Establish the consequences for the customer of
the certification body in the situation where the accreditation of the certification body was suspended
or withdrawn and this has an impact on the client”. In this regard, section 4.1.2 par. 9 of the Annex
establishes that the consequences for the customer in those cases shall be addressed. The Board
understands that the intention of the RO SA is to ensure that the client is aware of the consequences
in those situations and of the potential options or actions that can be taken. However, the Board
considers  that,  in  order  to  ensure  that  certification  agreements  accurately  reflect  not  only  the
consequences  and  impact  on  the  clients,  but  also  the  potential  further  actions,  the  RO  SA’s
accreditation  requirements  should  make  clear  that  simply stating  the  consequences  without
addressing the potential next steps won’t be sufficient. Thus, the EDPB encourages the RO SA to make
clear that the customer should be aware of the consequences, the impact they have on them and the
potential next steps that may be taken.

18. With  respect  to  section  4. 2 of  the  RO  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Management  of
impartiality”), the Board encourages the RO SA to provide examples of situations where a certification
7

Adopted

body has no relevant connection with the customer it assesses. For example, the certification body
should not belong to the same company group nor should be controlled in any way by the customer
it assesses.

19. With  regard  to  the  publicly  available  information  (section  4.6  of  the  RO  SA’s  draft  accreditation
requirements), the Board notes that the obligation includes the publication of “Individual incidents”.
Based on the explanations provided by the RO SA, the Board understands that the intention is to refer
to  statistics  or  other  type  of anonymised information  and  encourages  the  RO  SA  to  clarify  the
requirement in this line.

2.2.4 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS

20.

As a general remark, the Board considers that the expertise requirements for evaluators and decision-
makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  evaluators  should  have  a  more  specialist  expertise  and  professional
experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should
have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection.
Considering this, the Board encourages the RO SA to redraft this subsection taking into account the
different substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers,
rather than the years of experience.

21. With regard to technical and legal personnel responsible for decision-making, the Board notes that
the documents referred are not suitable to demonstrate the required experience, since they relate to
educational aspects. Thus, the EDPB recommends the RO SA to either delete the examples or provide
examples  that are  fitting  to  the  requirement,  such  as  proof  of  professional  experience,  previous
contracts, attestation by previous employers, etc.

22. With regard to technical and legal personnel in charge of evaluations, the EDPB notes that the required
expertise may be evidenced with a series of documents, attesting the competencies required, “in so
far  as  they  are  relevant”.  Since  qualifications  attesting  the  competencies  required  will  always  be
relevant, the EDPB encourages the RO SA to delete the abovementioned reference and to specify that
the examples are suitable only to demonstrate the required expertise.

2.2.5 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS

23. With regard to section 7.1, second indent, of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board
notes that the reference to the EU Data Protection Seal is not completely aligned with the Annex. In
order to provide clarity, the Board encourages the RO SA to amend the requirements by including the
reference to operating an approved EU Data protection Seal from a satellite office.

24.

25.

The  Board  notes  that  section  7.2  of  the RO SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“application”)
contains a reference to the controller/processor contract(s) and their specific arrangements. While
acknowledging that the RO SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the RO SA
to include a reference to joint controllers and their specific arrangements.

The Board notes that section 7.2 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements specify that “the
controller and the processor have the right to apply for certification”. The possibility for processors to
apply for certification will depend on the specific certification scheme. Therefore, in order to avoid

8

Adopted

confusion, the  Board  encourages  the  RO  SA to  delete  the  reference  above  or  to  clarify  that  the
possibility for processors to be certified will depend on the scope of the certification scheme.

26. With regard to the second paragraph of section 7.3 (“application review), the Board encourages the
RO SA to replace the reference to section 7.3.1.b of ISO 17065 with section 7.3 of ISO 17065, in order
to align the wording with the Annex.

27. With regard to section 7.4 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“evaluation”), the Board
notes that it does not include a specific reference to the use of external experts, as stated in the Annex.
This possibility is, however, explicitly recognised in section 7.6 of the draft requirements (certification
decision).  Since  external  experts  recognised  by  the  certification  body  may  be  involved  in  the
evaluation, the Board encourages the RO SA to include there a specific reference to the use of external
experts who have been recognised by the certification body. In addition, the Board considers that the
draft  accreditation  requirements  should  explicitly  state  that  the  certification  body  will  retain  the
responsibility  for  the  decision-making,  even  when  it  uses  external  experts.  Therefore,  the  Board
recommends the RO SA to amend the draft accordingly.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

Concerning  the  sentence  “Recognition  shall  in  any  way  require  the  availability  of  a  complete
evaluation report or information enabling an evaluation of the previous certification activity and its
results”, the Board considers that it would be clearer to refer simply to “certification” rather than
“certification  activity”  and  encourages  the  RO  SA  to  amend  the  draft  accordingly.  Moreover,  the
reference to the “previous certification” could be confusing, since it does not clearly refer to the
existing certification the certification body wants to take into account as part of its own evaluation.
The Board encourages the RO SA to change the wording, in order to clarify that the reference is to the
existing certification.

In addition, the Board considers that the rules applicable for the use of existing certifications are
unclear, namely the interplay between the different certifications, the type of certifications accepted
and the period of validity. Regarding the rules on the period of validity of the certificates (indent 4th
under paragraph 4), the Board considers that the procedure is unclear and the terms used should be
clearly defined in order to understand to which certification the requirements refer to. The EDPB
recommends the RO SA to clarify the rules for the use of existing certification in order to allow for a
better understanding thereof.

In addition, indent 3rd under paragraph 4 refers to “other certifications” as a compliance factor to be
considered.  Based  on  the  explanations  provided  by  the  RO  SA,  the  Board  understands that  the
reference does not include certifications issued under the GDPR. The Board is of the view that non-
GDPR  certifications  cannot  be  considered  as  a  compliance  factor  under  GDPR  and,  therefore,
recommends the RO SA to delete the reference.

Regarding section 7.6 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“certification decision”), the
Board  considers  that  the  procedure  for  informing  the  competent  SA  is  not  clear,  in  particular
considering the specific deadline provided in the draft requirements, which may lead to difficulties in
practice. The Board encourages the RO SA to clarify the procedure.

In addition, the draft accreditation requirements include the obligation to submit written information
to the RO SA prior to granting the certification. Based on the explanations provided by the RO SA, the
Board understands that the intention is to increase transparency and it does not entail a supervision
of the draft approval. The Board encourages the RO SA to include a clarification in that sense.

9

Adopted

33.

The Board notes that paragraph 4 under section 7.6 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements
would be better placed after the first paragraph, since it further explains it. Thus, in order to avoid
confusion, the EDPB encourages the RO SA to move the paragraph accordingly.

34. With regard to section 7.9 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Surveillance”), the Board
welcomes  the  obligation  to  carry  out  the  surveillance  activities  annually.  In  addition,  the  Board
considers  that  the  risks  associated  with  the  processing should  be  taken  into  account  in  order  to
determine whether a more frequent monitoring is necessary. Thus, the Board encourages the RO SA
to  include  a  risk-based  approach  in  order  to  identify  whether,  in  specific  cases,  the  surveillance
activities have to be carried out more than once per year.

35. With  regard  to  section  7.10  of  the  RO  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“changes  affecting
certification”), the Board considers that changes in the state of art are also relevant and might affect
certification. Therefore, the Board encourages the RO SA to include this possibility among the list of
changes that might affect certification.

36.

37.

Regarding  the  reference  to  the  “decisions  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board”,  the  Board
acknowledges that the RO SA has used the wording foreseen in Annex 1. However, in order to ensure
a clear understanding of what is meant by “decisions of the European Data Protection Board”, the
Board encourages the RO SA to clarify the reference. An example could be to refer to “documents
adopted by the European Data Protection Board”.

Regarding paragraph 3 of section 7.10 (starting with “Beyond this, the CB defines...”), the EDPB notes
that it is a repetition from section 7.4 of the RO SA’ draft accreditation requirements. The Board
understands that this requirement, under section 7.10, is applicable to the changes. Thus, it should be
drafted specifically to encompass that possibility. Hence, the EDPB encourages the RO SA to amend
the reference by taking out the parenthesis and delete the word ‘even’.

38. With regard to the last paragraph of section 7.10 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the
Board notes the obligation of the client to notify changes in the cases mentioned. Considering that the
requirements are for accreditation of certification bodies, the Board underlines that it is the obligation
of the certification body to take into account the changes notified by the client on the basis of item
7.10.2 ISO 17065, and encourages the RO SA to make such clarification.

39. With regard to section 11 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Termination, reduction,
suspension or withdrawal of certification”), the Board notes that the last part of the third paragraph
is confusing: “and which (non-compliance) cases constitute measures in the first place.” In order to
provide clarity, the Board encourages the RO SA to redraft the sentence.

40. With regard to section 7.12 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“records”), the Board
notes that the obligation to keep documentation complete, verifiable, up-to-date and auditable is
tailored  only to  certification  procedures  completed  without  a  positive  result  and  to  ongoing
procedures. The Board recommends the RO SA to amend the draft in order to include the procedures
completed with a positive result.

41.

Last paragraph of section 7.12 establishes that “In addition to item 7.12.1 of EN-ISO/IEC 17065/2012,
all records relating to the certification process shall be retained for further three years beyond the
period of validity of the certification and after the completion of the certification agreement. In the
event of a dispute between the certification body and the client or the client and the competent data
protection  supervisory  authority, this  period  may  be  extend  beyond  the  validity  period  of  the

10

Adopted

certification  until  the  end  of  this  procedure.”  The  EDPB  understands  that  the  intention of  the
underlined sentence is to introduce the possibility to extend the three years until the dispute is settled.
In order to clarify this, the EDPB encourages the RO SA to replace “end of procedure” with “dispute is
settled”.

2.2.6 FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

The Board notes that the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include the obligation of
the certification body to establish procedures to guide the updating of the evaluation methods, as
stated in section 9.1 of the Annex. The EDPB recommends the RO SA to align the text with the Annex.

In addition, the Board notes that the obligation of the certification body to establish procedures to
ensure the training of the employees with a view to updating their skills is missing, as per section 9.2
of the Annex. Whereas section 6.1 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements makes reference
to updating the skills of the personnel, it mentions the obligation of the personnel to demonstrate this
update, but not the obligation of the certification body in this context. Thus, the EDPB recommends
the RO SA to explicitly include the obligation of the certification body, in accordance with section 9.2
of the Annex.

The Board notes that the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include any of the elements
of section 9.3.1 of the Annex (“communication between the certification body and its customers”) and
recommends that such elements be included in the RO SA’s accreditation requirements.

Furthermore, the Board understands that section 8 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements
partially covers  the  requirements  under  section  9.3.3 of  the Annex,  since  it  establishes that the
management system shall specify a methodology for achieving and controlling the requirements in
compliance with data protection regulations and for continuously checking them with the accredited
body itself. However, the obligation to share relevant complaints and objections with the SA is missing,
as per second paragraph of section 9.3.3 of the Annex. The EDPB recommend that such obligation be
included.

Finally, the Board considers that section 9.3.4 of the Annex is missing in the RO SA’s draft accreditation
requirements, in particular the reference to notification to customers in the event of suspension or
withdrawal of the accreditation. The Board recommends the RO SA to include the missing elements,
in line with the Annex.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

47.

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the Romanian Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an
inconsistent application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to
be made:

48.

Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the RO SA:

1) either  delete  the  examples  or  provide  examples  that  are  fitting  to  demonstrate  the

experience of the technical and legal personnel responsible for decision-making.

11

Adopted

49.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the RO SA:

1) explicitly state that the certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-

making, even when it uses external experts.

2) clarify  the  rules  for  the  use  of  existing  certification  in  order  to allow  for  a  better

understanding thereof.

3) delete the reference to “other certifications” as a compliance factor to be considered.

4) amend section 7.12 in order to include the procedures completed with a positive result.

50.

Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the RO SA:

1)

include  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  establish  procedures  to  guide  the
updating of the evaluation methods, as stated in section 9.1 of the Annex.

2) explicitly include the obligation of the certification body, in accordance with section 9.2

of the Annex.
include all the elements of section 9.3.1 of the Annex.
include the obligation to share relevant complaints and objections with the SA, as per
second paragraph of section 9.3.3 of the Annex.
include the missing elements of section 9.3.4 of the Annex

3)
4)

5)

4 FINAL REMARKS

51.

52.

This opinion is addressed to the Romanian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the RO SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

53.

The RO SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

12

