1/18

 File No.: PS/00506/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 20, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is
transcribe:

<<

File No.: PS/00506/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 28
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
ahead, VODAFONE).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the complaining party, client in that
moment of VODAFONE, shows that on October 21, 2020, without

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

action on his part, his mailing address was changed to that of "a neighbor",
“putting the lines of my mobiles and fiber in the name of both” and revealing “my data
personal and bank charges to this person”. Given these facts, he states that he has intervened
filed a claim, opened an incident to "technical support", and exercised the right
cho of rectification before VODAFONE.

Relevant documentation provided by the complaining party:

Telecommunications services contract for the address of the claimant with
VODAFONE, dated January 16, 2020, in which it has been marked, as a method
billing, "Domiciled", consigning the bank account number.

Copy of the document “REQUEST FOR CHANGE OF ADDRESS TO VODAFONE” in the
which indicates that “Vodafone has exchanged my address which is ***ADDRESS.1 with
that of a neighbor who is ***ADDRESS.2 putting the lines of my mobiles and fiber
in the name of both” and requests rectification. The copy, dated October 23,
2020, does not contain signature or receipt notes.

Screenshots of a mobile device in which a real order is referenced.
dated October 21, 2020 for the address ***ADDRESS.2 (hereinafter
lance the address of the neighbor).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to VODAFONE, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

No response to this letter has been received.

THIRD: On February 22, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

Letter from VODAFONE, in response to the notification of the claim, filed on fe-
cha April 22, 2021, in which it provides the following information of relevance to the
effects of these actions:

It states that on July 23, 2020, a third client requested the registration of a
set of services by providing the address of the complaining party. Add that this
This fact caused the services associated with the complaining party to appear
associates, in addition to the claimant party itself, to that of the third client.

Attach the telecommunications services contract of the complaining party with VO-
DAFONE dated February 15, 2019. It contains the address of the claimant.
Maintain both the customer data and the installation and shipping address of
equipment. In addition, the annex contains the "Direct Debit Mandate
SEPA” associated.

Attach the documentation concerning the contracting of this third client: the con-
telecommunications services agreement of the latter with VODAFONE, dated July 23
of 2020, in which the address of the complaining party appears both in the data of the
customer as in the direction of installation and shipment of equipment; two documents, in
that this third client is informed of the summary of the contract and the date of
installation of the services that also contain the address of the claiming party
tea; a document similar to the previous ones, but in which the address is already consigned.
tion of the neighbor (therefore the address of the complaining party does not appear). In addition, the
annex contains the associated "SEPA Direct Debit Mandate", dated
cha July 23, 2020, containing the address of the associated complaining party
with this third client.

It adds that, on July 24, 2020, the third customer referred requested the rectification
cation of the previously provided postal address, causing this address to be
also be modified for the services of the complaining party.

It also indicates that "Thus things were, neither my client nor the claimant were aware
of the data crossing until, on October 21, 2020, while the
duplication of ownership of the affected client account, the third party linked to the
data crossing requested the portability of its services to another operating company,
causing A.A.A. also caused involuntary discharge in the
systems of my represented. Therefore, on that date, they were momentarily
the lines that were owned by A.A.A. were disabled. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Once the claim was received from A.A.A., the portability was canceled by me.
principal and the lines of A.A.A. they stayed with Vodafone.”

He also points out that “since that date, there are several interactions in their systems.
internal reports containing incidents of a technical nature related to
telephone lines of the claimant. However, before it was achieved

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

completely solve said incidents, A.A.A. requested the portability of the entire
of their services to another operating company, caused a definitive withdrawal from Vodafone in
dates November 3 and 6, 2020.”

Lastly, it indicates that “on December 14, 2020, Vodafone was transferred
gives a claim filed by A.A.A. before the Municipal Information Office at
Consumer of the Municipality of Móstoles. It claimed the amounts invoiced
two in the name of the claimant since the incident took place, for not having been able to
enjoy the services, also requesting that the amount paid be forgiven.
rresponding to the breach of the permanence commitment. For these purposes, Vo
dafone proceeded to carry out the appropriate internal investigations and assess the matter,
acceding to A.A.A.'s request. Thus, on December 16, 2020,
issued a payment of 451.90 euros (VAT included), for the billed installments
for not having consumption of the services and the charges of permanence and non-compliance
of commitments.”

Attached is a copy of the payment, dated December 16, 2020, made to the party claiming
mante as rectification of a previous invoice (attached in turn).

VODAFONE has also provided a report detailing the investigation carried out
da that includes screenshots of their information systems.

Letter from VODAFONE, registered with the AEPD on July 2,
2021, in which it states, regarding the issues indicated, the following:

Causes of the incident

“[...] the incident that caused the data crossing was the consequence of a data crossing
totally involuntary on the part of my client, which had its origin in a fa-
human error on the part of the agent who completed the record of the third party and who did not verify the
postal address that was provided, being the same as that of A.A.A. so he activated the
services of the new client in the A.A.A. installation ID.”

Categories of personal data affected

“[…] it has been possible to verify that the data to which those affected had access
were those that were included in the invoices of the services contracted with my representation.
tada. That is, A.A.A. only had access to the postal address of the third client and,
on the other hand, the third party had access to the name and surnames, DNI, last four digits
of the A.A.A. bank account, as well as the information related to the services
treated.”

Communication to those affected

As reported by VODAFONE in the response to the transfer of the claim, on the 21st of
April 2021 sent a letter to the complaining party in which it informs

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

the events that occurred and the actions taken in this regard. This letter is attached with
the answer.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD), recognizes each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 and 48 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

Previous Questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
processing of personal data, since VODAFONE
carries out, among other treatments, the modification and communication by transmission of the
following personal data of natural persons, such as: name, number of
phone and bank details.

VODAFONE carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller,
given that he is the one who determines the ends and means of such activity, by virtue of the aforementioned
article 4.7 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of se-
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in another
form, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.”

In the present case, there is a security breach of personal data in the cir-
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality, dis-
availability and integrity, having associated, on July 23, 2020, the services of the
complaining party, in addition to the complaining party itself, to a third client. Be mo-
changed the complaining party's mailing address to that of a neighbor, putting the lines
of the cell phones and fiber of the claimant party in the name of both and revealing the data
personal and bank charges from the claimant to the third customer. Furthermore, on the 21st
of October 2020, "while the duplication of ownership of the account
affected client, the third party linked to the crossing of data requested the portability of
its services to another operating company, causing A.A.A.
also caused involuntary termination in the systems of my client. Therefore, in
that date, the lines that appeared under titles were temporarily disabled.
A.A.A. authority.”

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the imposition
sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary to analyze the
diligence of those responsible and in charge and the security measures applied.

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the RGPD, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the RGPD. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, which regulate the security of the
treatment, notification of a violation of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. The personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is stated that the personal data of the complaining party,
in the VODAFONE database, were unduly exposed to a third party, by
having associated, on July 23, 2020, the services of the complaining party, in addition
from the complaining party itself, to a third client. Changed mailing address
the claimant party to that of a neighbor, putting the mobile lines and fiber of the
claimant party on behalf of both and revealing the personal and bank details of
the complaining party to the third customer. In addition, on October 21, 2021,
“While the duplication of ownership of the affected client account lasted, the
external third party linked to the crossing of data requested the portability of its services to another
operating company, causing A.A.A. also cause low
involuntary in the systems of my client. For this reason, on that date, they remained
The lines that were owned by A.A.A. were temporarily disabled.”

In accordance with the evidence available in this start-up agreement
sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation,
considers that the known facts could constitute an infringement,
attributable to VODAFONE, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

IV

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

v

Sanction for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
accordance with the evidence available at the present time.
agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, the infraction in question is considered to be serious for the purposes of
RGPD and that it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the following
criteria established by articles 83.2 of the RGPD and 76.2 of the LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors:

. According to article 76.2. a) of the LOPDGDD “The continuing nature of the infraction”
Continuous nature of the facts verified: from July 23, 2020 to
that, on October 21, 2020, the third party requests the portability of its services to another
operating company.

. Pursuant to article 83.2.g) “the categories of personal data affected-
two for the infraction. Those that were included in the invoices of the contracted services
by the complaining party. The third party had access to the name and surnames, DNI, last

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

four digits of the bank account of the claiming party, as well as the information
regarding the contracted services.

. According to article 83.2.a) of the RGPD “the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation.
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of
damages they have suffered; There are two affected persons: the claimant
mante and the third. Personal data of the complaining party were disclosed to the third party
ro and, in addition, when the third party requests portability to another company, the services of the
claimant caused cancellation in the VODAFONE systems, so they were left
The lines of the claimant were momentarily disabled, and she had to open an in-
incident to "technical support", exercise the right of rectification before VODAFONE and
file a claim.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD states: “The link between the activity of the offender
tor with the processing of personal data”. The development of the activity
business capacity carried out by VODAFONE requires continuous treatment and
large scale of personal customer data.

. Article 83.2.k) indicates: “any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the obvious losses
affected, directly or indirectly, through the infringement”.

Volume of business or activity: VODAFONE is a large company in the sector of
telecommunications that, depending on the number of mobile voice lines, the pos-
tioned as one of the largest telecommunications operators in our
country. According to information from the National Commission of Markets and Competition,
On mobile voice lines, the number of customers would be 12,422,064.

Regularization of the irregular situation diligently: portability was
canceled by VODAFONE and the lines of the claimant party remained in Vodafone.
dafone On December 16, 2020, after a claim, a credit note was issued to the
claimant party of 451.90 euros (VAT included), in concept of invoiced fees
for not having consumption of the services and the charges of permanence and non-compliance
of commitments.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD and the
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating the
established in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, allows initially setting a penalty of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

SAW

Article 32 of the GDPR

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

In the present case, at the time of the breach, VODAFONE, having
taking into account that, on July 24, 2020, the third client requested the rectification
of the previously provided postal address, causing this address to be
was also modified for the services of the complaining party, it did not take any action
since, VODAFONE indicates that "Thus things were, neither my client nor the claimant were
aware of the crossing of data until, on October 21, 2020, while
the duplication of ownership of the affected client account persisted, the third party
linked to data crossing requested the portability of its services to another company
operator, causing A.A.A. also cause low
involuntary in the systems of my client. For this reason, on that date, they remained
The lines that were owned by A.A.A. were temporarily disabled.”

In accordance with the evidence available in this start-up agreement
sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation,
considers that the known facts could constitute an infringement,
attributable to VODAFONE, for violation of article 32 of the RGPD.

7th

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 are infractions
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
g) The breach, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence, of the
technical and organizational measures that have been implemented as required
by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. (…)

viii

Sanction for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
accordance with the evidence available at the present time.
agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
investigation, the infringement in question is considered to be serious for the purposes of
RGPD and that it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the following
criteria established by articles 83.2 of the RGPD and 76.2 of the LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors:

. According to article 76.2. a) of the LOPDGDD “The continuing nature of the infraction”
Continuous nature of the facts verified: from July 23, 2020 to
that, on October 21, 2020, the third party requests the portability of its services to another
operating company.

. Pursuant to article 83.2.g) “the categories of personal data affected-
two for the infraction. Those that were included in the invoices of the contracted services
by the complaining party. The third party had access to the name and surnames, DNI, last
four digits of the bank account of the claiming party, as well as the information
regarding the contracted services.

. According to article 83.2.a) of the RGPD “the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation.
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of
damages they have suffered; There are two affected persons: the claimant
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

mante and the third. Personal data of the complaining party were disclosed to the third party
ro and, in addition, when the third party requests portability to another company, the services of the
claimant caused cancellation in the VODAFONE systems, so they were left
The lines of the claimant were momentarily disabled, and she had to open an in-
incident to "technical support", exercise the right of rectification before VODAFONE and
file a claim.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD states: “The link between the activity of the offender
with the performance of personal data processing” The development of the activity
business carried out by VODAFONE requires continuous and large-scale treatment
scale of customer personal data.

. Article 83.2.k) indicates: “any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the obvious losses
affected, directly or indirectly, through the infringement”.

Volume of business or activity: VODAFONE is a large company in the sector of
telecommunications that, depending on the number of mobile voice lines, the pos-
tioned as one of the largest telecommunications operators in our
country. According to information from the National Commission of Markets and Competition,
On mobile voice lines, the number of customers would be 12,422,064.

Regularization of the irregular situation diligently: portability was
canceled by VODAFONE and the lines of the claimant party remained in Vodafone.
dafone On December 16, 2020, after a claim, a credit note was issued to the
claimant party of 451.90 euros (VAT included), in concept of invoiced fees
for not having consumption of the services and the charges of permanence and non-compliance
of commitments.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD and the
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating the
established in article 32 of the RGPD, allows initially setting a penalty of
€20,000 (twenty thousand euros).

IX

Imposition of measures

Among the corrective powers provided in article 58 "Powers" of the RGPD, in the
Section 2.d) establishes that each control authority may “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the resolution that puts an end to the
This procedure may order the adoption of measures, as established
in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD and in accordance with what is derived from the instruction
of the procedure, if necessary, in addition to the imposition of a fine
administrative.

Therefore, in view of the foregoing, the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection,

AGREE:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, ti-
pified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with
NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.4 of the RGPD.

SECOND: That for the purposes provided in article 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
of October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), the sanction that may correspond, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, would be:

FIFTY THOUSAND EUROS (€50,000), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

TWENTY THOUSAND EUROS (€20,000), for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

THIRD: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the CLAIMING party and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

 

Pursuant to article 85 of the LPACAP, a proceeding has been initiated
sanctioning party, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility, the
procedure with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 56,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

the sanction would be established at 56,000 euros and its payment would imply the termination
of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
is revealed within the period granted to formulate allegations to the
initiation of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the amount referred to in paragraph
above may be made at any time prior to resolution. In this case, yes
were it appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established
at 42,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
against the sanction imposed, as provided in article 85.3 of the
LPACAP.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (56,000 euros or 42,000 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the AEPD in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the
concept the following procedure reference number PS/00506/2021 and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send the payment receipt to the SGID to continue with the
procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
actions, in accordance with the provisions of article 64.2 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

167-160721

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On January 11, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros using one of the two
reductions provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, it has not
acknowledgment of responsibility has been confirmed.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00506/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-160721

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

