1/7

 File No.: PS/00289/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 29, 2020, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data REQUIRED FUENSANTA S.L.,
 what would contribute
documentation related to certain ongoing investigations carried out
carried out by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection of this Agency, in relation to
with file E/10435/2020, in the following terms:

 with CIF B28062073,

“Within the framework of the actions carried out by the Subdirectorate General for
Inspection of Data in order to clarify certain facts of which it has had
knowledge of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in use of the
powers conferred by article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General Data Protection) (hereinafter RGPD), and art. 67 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), it is requested that within ten days
working days, submit the following information regarding the email sent with the
clear recipients (no blind copy):

1.

two.

3.

Four.

Information on the causes that have motivated the sending of the mail with the
list of recipients in clear (multiple list revealing the addresses of
email to other recipients).

Information about whether they have forwarded more similar emails to other
recipient lists or it is a single shipment.

Information on whether the email included other patient data
(other identifying data, including health data such as results of
tests).

Information on whether they have addressed those affected to communicate the error and
copy of the communication if so.

     5. Measures adopted to prevent similar incidents from occurring, dates
of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.”

Likewise, they were informed that the person in charge and the person in charge of processing
personal data have the obligation to provide the documents,
information and any other collaboration that is required to carry out the function of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

inspection, with the indication that failure to comply with this obligation could
involve the commission of the offense typified in art. 83.5.e) of the RGPD,
consisting of not providing access in breach of article 58, section 1, which is
will sanction, in accordance with art. 58.2 of the RGPD, with administrative fines of 20
million euros maximum or, in the case of companies, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover for the year
previous financial, opting for the highest amount.

SECOND: The request for information, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was notified in
dated January 9, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that works in the
proceedings.

THIRD: After the period granted to answer the aforementioned
request for information does not appear in this Agency the answer to it.

FOURTH: On June 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On August 2, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
following terms:

<< That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
FUENSANTA S.L., with CIF B28062073, for an infringement of article 58.1 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of €3,000.00 (THREE THOUSAND
EURO).>>

SIXTH: On August 24, 2021, the entity submitted a written statement of allegations to
the Motion for a Resolution, in which, in summary, it states that it proceeded to answer
to the request for information, although not within the terms granted in the
notifications after October 21, 2020, that the proposed resolution does not
succinctly sets out the facts and legal grounds on which the claim is based.
dismissal, which means defenselessness affecting their right to defense, which does not
there has been an intention not to provide the AEPD with the required information and reiterates
that the situation caused by not attending in a timely manner the requirements of the
AEPD, is the result of a succession of errors and unfortunate events and requests
that the procedure be resolved without imputing an infraction or sanction and the filing of
performances.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The information requirement indicated in the antecedent was first
notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the LPACAP.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

SECOND: The respondent has not responded to the request for information made
by the Agency within the periods granted for it, namely:
The request made within the framework of the investigative actions
referenced with code E/10435/2020, in which the deadline to respond was
ten business days.

THIRD: After the period granted to answer the aforementioned
request for information does not appear in this Agency the answer to it.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

SECOND: Regarding the allegations presented to the Resolution Proposal, it is
should point out the following:

As regards the lack of reasons for the motion for a resolution, it is clear
sufficiently reasoned the infraction imputed based on the documentation that
work on file. The request for information was made in accordance with the
regulations established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations. Spent too much
term granted to respond to the aforementioned request for information, it is not stated in
this Agency the answer to it.

The requirement of motivation for administrative actions is directly related to
tioned with the principles of a Rule of Law (art. 1.1 of the EC) and with the charac-
binding ter that the Law has for the Public Administrations, whose empire is
are subject in the exercise of their powers (arts. 103.1 of the CE and 3.1 of the Law
40/2015, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector).

Thus, all administrative decisions are subject to the requirement of reasons.
(art. 88.3 of the LPAC), although it does not presuppose the inexorable obligation to answer
one by one to each objection that those interested in a procedure may have
expose, because that would go against the principle of speed and compliance with the deadlines.
procedural zos.

Articles 35 and 88, all of them of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, require that the "resolution
is motivated", albeit briefly, so that the interested party knows the func-
foundation of the resolution, without the lack of knowledge being able to produce defenselessness
by that of the reasons that assist the Administration that sanctions, pro-
announcing in this sense the Supreme Court, in Judgment of September 30,
1996 or November 19, 2001, according to which, brevity and conciseness should not
confused with lack of motivation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

The doctrine that the Constitutional Court has been maintaining in relation to the
defense is that in order for it to be invoked, it must be an in-
material defense that implies that it has caused real and effective damage. (Come in
others, SSTC 90/1988, 43/1989, STC, 105/1995, 118/1997, 91/2004)

In this case, not only are the requirements mentioned amply fulfilled, but
that goes further by offering reasoning that justifies the possible qualification
of the facts valued at the beginning and, even, the circumstances are mentioned
that may influence the determination of the sanction.

Regarding the allegations that state that they proceeded to answer the request
of information, although not within the terms granted in the notifications
after October 21, 2020, that there has been no intention of not facilitating
the AEPD the required information and that the situation caused by not responding in time
and forms the requirements of the AEPD, is the result of a succession of errors and
unfortunate events, they only come to confirm that the claimed has not
procured from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection the information that
required, without this argument being excused, since he is responsible,
in compliance with their proactive responsibility obligations, who must
implement the necessary technical and organizational measures, as expressed in the
articles 24 and 25 of the RGPD.

The denounced fact is accredited by the actions and documentation
in the file, constituting an infringement, since with the
indicated conduct of the defendant, the power of investigation that article 58.1 of the
RGPD confers on the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD, has been seen
hindered, meaning that the allegations presented do not distort the
essential content of the infraction that is declared committed nor do they suppose a cause of
sufficient justification or exoneration. Consequently, the claims must be
dismissed.

Therefore, the events described in the "Events" section are deemed to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.1 of the RGPD,
which provides that each control authority will have, among its powers of
research:

“a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who facilitate any
information required for the performance of its functions;
b) carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits;
c) carry out a review of the certifications issued under the
article 42, paragraph 7;
d) notify the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment of the alleged
violations of this Regulation;
e) obtain from the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment access to all
personal data and all the information necessary for the exercise of their
functions;
f) obtain access to all the premises of the person in charge and of the person in charge of the
processing, including any data processing equipment and means,
in accordance with the procedural law of the Union or of the States
members."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

THIRD: This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the RGPD, which considers
as such: “failure to provide access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

In the same article it is established that this infraction can be sanctioned with a fine.
twenty million euros (€20,000,000) maximum or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) as a maximum of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following behavior:

“ñ) Not facilitating the access of the personnel of the data protection authority
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority to
the exercise of its investigative powers.
o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the
competent data protection authority.”

FOURTH: The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD.
Consequently, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In the initial assessment it was found that no extenuating circumstances were applicable and
The following facts have been considered as aggravating:

- Art. 83.2 b) RGPD: the intention or negligence in the infringement. It is about
of a company that is not newly created and should have
procedures established for the fulfillment of the obligations that
contemplates the data protection regulations, among them, to respond to
the requirements of the supervisory authority.

- Art. 83.2 k) RGPD: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the
Losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the infringement. The
claim refers to the particular case of a person, but the
data processing to which it refers can potentially affect a
very high number of clients of the responsible entity or users of the
service provided by the responsible entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE FUENSANTA S.L., with CIF B28062073, for an infraction
of article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of
€3,000.00 (THREE THOUSAND EUROS).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FUENSANTA S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

