
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/28/2018
                                Information event: "125 days GDPR - examples from daily practice" - a complete success! On Wednesday, September 26th from 2pm to 6pm, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI), Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, together with the companies SCHOTT AG, Boehringer Ingelheim and Birkenstock, conducted the information event "125 days DSGVO - examples from everyday practice" on the premises of SCHOTT AG in Mainz. ©
                            Schott AG A good three months after the General Data Protection Regulation came into effect, there was an opportunity to exchange initial findings from the implementation and to report on the experiences of the Rhineland-Palatinate supervisory authority and the economy. The event served as a forum in which the effects of the new regulations could be evaluated and target-oriented approaches could be presented and discussed. Boehringer Ingelheim and SCHOTT reported on their first practical experiences, which particularly affected the information requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation towards customers and the handling of data protection incidents. Birkenstock explained how the data protection culture and practices of a medium-sized company are evolving against the background of the General Data Protection Regulation. The LfDI, Prof. Kugelmann, stated: “The General Data Protection Regulation is expected to result in a fivefold increase in the number of complaints received. However, it also expands the tools available to data protection authorities. With notices, warnings, orders or fines, the state commissioner has a wide range of options for enforcing the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation in a targeted and effective manner in the event of any violations everyone involved, including the audience. The practical exchange struck a chord with the participants. Follow-up events are therefore planned in a similar format. Further information: Powerpoint presentations of the lectures at the event Materials on the General Data Protection Regulation
                                return
                            



