Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679

Version 1.1

Adopted on 4 May 2020

adopted

1

Version history

Version 1.1

13 May 2020

Formatting corrections

Version 1.0

4 May 2020

Adoption of the Guidelines

adopted

2

Table of contents
0
1
2
3

3.4

3.1

3.2
3.3

3.3.1
3.3.2

3.1.1
3.1.2
3.1.3
3.1.4

Preface............................................................................................................................................. 4
Introduction..................................................................................................................................... 4
Consent in Article 4(11) of the GDPR .............................................................................................. 6
Elements of valid consent ............................................................................................................... 7
Free / freely given ................................................................................................................... 7
Imbalance of power......................................................................................................... 8
Conditionality ................................................................................................................ 10
Granularity..................................................................................................................... 12
Detriment ...................................................................................................................... 13
Specific................................................................................................................................... 13
Informed................................................................................................................................ 15
Minimum content requirements for consent to be ‘informed’ .................................... 15
How to provide information.......................................................................................... 16
Unambiguous indication of wishes ....................................................................................... 18
Obtaining explicit consent............................................................................................................. 20
Additional conditions for obtaining valid consent ........................................................................ 22
Demonstrate consent............................................................................................................ 22
5.1
5.2 Withdrawal of consent.......................................................................................................... 23
Interaction between consent and other lawful grounds in Article 6 GDPR.................................. 25
Specific areas of concern in the GDPR .......................................................................................... 25
Children (Article 8) ................................................................................................................ 25
Information society service ........................................................................................... 26
Offered directly to a child.............................................................................................. 27
Age................................................................................................................................. 27
Children’s consent and parental responsibility............................................................. 28
Scientific research ................................................................................................................. 30
Data subject’s rights.............................................................................................................. 32
Consent obtained under Directive 95/46/EC ................................................................................ 32

7.1.1
7.1.2
7.1.3
7.1.4

7.2
7.3

7.1

4
5

6
7

8

adopted

3

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter
“GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

Having  regard  to  the  Article  29  Working Party  Guidelines  on consent  under  Regulation 2016/679,
WP259 rev.01,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

0 PREFACE

On 10 April 2018 the Article 29 Working Party adopted its Guidelines on consent under Regulation
2016/679  (WP259.01),  which  were  endorsed  by  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereinafter
“EDPB”) at its first Plenary meeting. This document is a slightly updated version of those Guidelines.
Any reference to the WP29 Guidelines on consent (WP259 rev.01) should from now on be interpreted
as a reference to these guidelines.

The  EDPB  has  noticed  that  there  was  a  need  for  further  clarifications,  specifically  regarding  two
questions:

1

2

The validity of consent provided by the data subject when interacting with so-called “cookie
walls”;
The example 16 on scrolling and consent.

The paragraphs concerning these two issues have been revised and updated, while the rest of the
document was left unchanged, except for editorial changes. The revision concerns, more specifically:




Section on Conditionality (paragraphs 38 - 41).
Section on Unambiguous indication of wishes (paragraph 86)

1 INTRODUCTION

1.

These Guidelines provide a thorough analysis of the notion of consent in Regulation 2016/679, the
General Data Protection Regulation (hereafter: GDPR). The concept of consent as used in the Data

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.

adopted

4

2.

3.

4.

5.

Protection Directive (hereafter: Directive 95/46/EC) and in the e-Privacy Directive to date, has evolved.
The  GDPR  provides  further  clarification  and  specification  of  the  requirements  for  obtaining  and
demonstrating valid consent. These Guidelines focus on these changes, providing practical guidance
to ensure compliance with the GDPR and building upon the Article 29 Working Party Opinion 15/2011
on consent. The obligation is on controllers to innovate to find new solutions that operate within the
parameters of the law and better support the protection of personal data and the interests of data
subjects.

Consent remains one of six lawful bases to process personal data, as listed in Article 6 of the GDPR.2
When initiating activities that involve processing of personal data, a controller must always take time
to consider what would be the appropriate lawful ground for the envisaged processing.

Generally, consent can only be an appropriate lawful basis if a data subject is offered control and is
offered a genuine choice with regard to accepting or declining the terms offered or declining them
without detriment. When asking for consent, a controller has the duty to assess whether it will meet
all the requirements to obtain valid consent. If obtained in full compliance with the GDPR, consent is
a tool that gives data subjects control over whether or not personal data concerning them will be
processed. If not, the data subject’s control becomes illusory and consent will be an invalid basis for
processing, rendering the processing activity unlawful.3

The existing Article 29 Working Party (WP29) Opinions on consent4 remain relevant, where consistent
with the new legal framework, as the GDPR codifies existing WP29 guidance and general good practice
and  most  of  the  key  elements  of  consent  remain  the  same  under  the  GDPR.  Therefore,  in  this
document, the EDPB expands upon and completes earlier Article 29 Working Party Opinions on specific
topics that include reference to consent under Directive 95/46/EC, rather than replacing them.

As the WP29 stated in its Opinion 15/2011 on the definition on consent, inviting people to accept a
data  processing  operation  should  be  subject  to  rigorous  requirements,  since  it  concerns  the
fundamental rights of data subjects and the controller wishes to engage in a processing operation that
would be unlawful without the data subject’s consent.5 The crucial role of consent is underlined by
Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Furthermore, obtaining
consent  also  does  not  negate  or  in  any  way  diminish  the  controller’s  obligations  to  observe  the
principles of processing enshrined in the GDPR, especially Article 5 of the GDPR with regard to fairness,
necessity and proportionality, as well as data quality. Even if the processing of personal data is based
on consent of the data subject, this would not legitimise collection of data, which is not necessary in
relation to a specified purpose of processing and be fundamentally unfair.6

2 Article 9 GDPR provides a list of possible exemptions to the ban on processing special categories of data. One
of the exemptions listed is the situation where the data subject provides explicit consent to the use of this data.

3 See also Article 29 Working Party Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), pp. 6-8, and/or
Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC
(WP 217), pp. 9, 10, 13 and 14.

4 Most notably, Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187).

5 Opinion 15/2011, page on the definition of consent (WP 187), p. 8.

6 See also Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), and Article 5 GDPR.

adopted

5

6.

7.

8.

9.

Meanwhile, the EDPB is aware of the review of the ePrivacy Directive (2002/58/EC). The notion of
consent  in  the  draft  ePrivacy  Regulation  remains  linked  to  the  notion  of  consent  in  the  GDPR.7
Organisations are likely to need consent under the ePrivacy instrument for most online marketing
messages or marketing calls, and online tracking methods including by the use of cookies or apps or
other  software. The  EDPB has  already  provided  recommendations  and  guidance  to  the  European
legislator on the Proposal for a Regulation on ePrivacy.8

With  regard  to  the  existing  e-Privacy  Directive, the  EDPB notes  that  references  to  the  repealed
Directive 95/46/EC shall be construed as references to the GDPR.9 This also applies to references to
consent in the current Directive 2002/58/EC, as the ePrivacy Regulation will not (yet) be in force from
25  May  2018.  According  to  Article  95  GDPR,  additional  obligations  in  relation  to  processing  in
connection  with  the  provision  of  publicly  available  electronic  communications  services  in  public
communication  networks  shall  not  be  imposed  insofar  the  e-Privacy  Directive  imposes  specific
obligations with the same objective. The EDPB notes that the requirements for consent under the
GDPR  are  not  considered  to  be  an  ‘additional  obligation’,  but  rather  as  preconditions  for  lawful
processing. Therefore, the GDPR conditions for obtaining valid consent are applicable in situations
falling within the scope of the e-Privacy Directive.

2 CONSENT IN ARTICLE 4(11) OF THE GDPR

Article 4(11) of the GDPR defines consent as: “any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous
indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her.”

The basic concept of consent remains similar to that under the Directive 95/46/EC and consent is one
of the lawful grounds on which personal data processing has to be based, pursuant to Article 6 of the
GDPR.10 Besides the amended definition in Article 4(11), the GDPR provides additional guidance in
Article 7 and in recitals 32, 33, 42, and 43 as to how the controller must act to comply with the main
elements of the consent requirement.

7 According to Article 9 of the proposed ePrivacy Regulation, the definition of and the conditions for consent
provided for in Articles 4(11) and Article 7 of the GDPR apply.

8 See EDPB statement on ePrivacy - 25/05/2018 and EDPB Statement 3/2019 on an ePrivacy regulation.

9 See Article 94 GDPR.

10 Consent was defined in Directive 95/46/EC as “any freely given specific and informed indication of his wishes
by which the data subject signifies his agreement to personal data relating to him being processed” which must
be ‘unambiguously given’ in order to make the processing of personal data legitimate (Article 7(a) of Directive
95/46/EC)).  See  WP29  Opinion  15/2011  on  the  definition  of  consent  (WP  187)  for  examples  on  the
appropriateness of consent as lawful basis. In this Opinion, WP29 has provided guidance to distinguish where
consent is an appropriate lawful basis from those where relying on the legitimate interest ground (perhaps with
an opportunity to opt out) is sufficient or a contractual relation would be recommended. See also WP29 Opinion
06/2014, paragraph III.1.2, p. 14 and further. Explicit consent is also one of the exemptions to the prohibition on
the processing of special categories of data: See Article 9 GDPR.

adopted

6

10.

Finally, the inclusion of specific provisions and recitals on the withdrawal of consent confirms that
consent should be a reversible decision and that there remains a degree of control on the side of the
data subject.

3 ELEMENTS OF VALID CONSENT

11.

Article 4(11) of the GDPR stipulates that consent of the data subject means any:









freely given,

specific,

informed and

unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by
a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to
him or her.

12.

13.

In the sections below, it is analysed to what extent the wording of Article 4(11) requires controllers to
change their consent requests/forms, in order to ensure compliance with the GDPR.11

3.1 Free / freely given12
The element “free” implies real choice and control for data subjects. As a general rule, the GDPR
prescribes that if the data subject has no real choice, feels compelled to consent or will endure negative
consequences if they do not consent, then consent will not be valid.13 If consent is bundled up as a
non-negotiable part of terms and conditions it is presumed not to have been freely given. Accordingly,
consent will not be considered to be free if the data subject is unable to refuse or withdraw his or her
consent without detriment.14 The notion of imbalance between the controller and the data subject is
also taken into consideration by the GDPR.

14. When  assessing  whether  consent  is  freely  given,  one  should  also  take  into  account  the  specific
situation of tying consent into contracts or the provision of a service as described in Article 7(4). Article
7(4) has been drafted in a non-exhaustive fashion by the words “inter alia”, meaning that there may
be a range of other situations, which are caught by this provision. In general terms, any element of

11 For guidance with regard to ongoing processing activities based on consent in Directive 95/46, see chapter 7
of this document and recital 171 of the GDPR.

12 In several opinions, the Article 29 Working Party has explored the limits of consent in situations where it cannot
be freely given. This was notably the case in its Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), Working
Document on the processing of personal data relating to health in electronic health records (WP 131), Opinion
8/2001 on the processing of personal data in the employment context (WP48), and Second opinion 4/2009 on
processing of data by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) (International Standard for the Protection of Privacy
and Personal Information, on related provisions of the WADA Code and on other privacy issues in the context of
the fight against doping in sport by WADA and (national) anti-doping organizations (WP 162).
13 See Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP187), p. 12.

14 See Recitals 42, 43 GDPR and WP29 Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent, adopted on 13 July 2011,
(WP 187), p. 12.

adopted

7

15.

16.

inappropriate pressure or influence upon the data subject (which may be manifested in many different
ways) which prevents a data subject from exercising their free will, shall render the consent invalid.

Example 1: A mobile app for photo editing asks its users to have their GPS localisation activated for the
use of its services. The app also tells its users it will use the collected data for behavioural advertising
purposes. Neither geolocalisation or online behavioural advertising are necessary for the provision of
the photo editing service and go beyond the delivery of the core service provided. Since users cannot
use the app without consenting to these purposes, the consent cannot be considered as being freely
given.

3.1.1 Imbalance of power
Recital 4315 clearly indicates that it is unlikely that public authorities can rely on consent for processing
as  whenever  the  controller  is  a  public  authority,  there  is often  a  clear  imbalance of  power  in the
relationship between the controller and the data subject. It is also clear in most cases that the data
subject will have no realistic alternatives to accepting the processing (terms) of this controller. The
EDPB considers that there are other lawful bases that are, in principle, more appropriate to the activity
of public authorities.16

17. Without  prejudice  to  these  general  considerations,  the  use  of  consent  as  a  lawful  basis  for  data
processing by public authorities is not totally excluded under the legal framework of the GDPR. The
following examples show that the use of consent can be appropriate under certain circumstances.

18.

19.

Example 2: A local municipality is planning road maintenance works. As the road works may disrupt
traffic for a long time, the municipality offers its citizens the opportunity to subscribe to an email list
to receive updates on the progress of the works and on expected delays. The municipality makes clear
that there is no obligation to participate and asks for consent to use email addresses for this (exclusive)
purpose. Citizens that do not consent will not miss out on any core service of the municipality or the
exercise of any right, so they are able to give or refuse their consent to this use of data freely. All
information on the road works will also be available on the municipality’s website.

Example 3: An individual who owns land needs certain permits from both her local municipality and
from the provincial government under which the municipality resides. Both public bodies require the
same information for issuing their permit, but are not accessing each other’s databases. Therefore,
both ask for the same information and the land owner sends out her details to both public bodies. The
municipality and the provincial authority ask for her consent to merge the files, to avoid duplicate
procedures and correspondence. Both public bodies ensure that this is optional and that the permit
requests will still be processed separately if she decides not to consent to the merger of her data. The
land owner is able to give consent to the authorities for the purpose of merging the files freely.

15 Recital 43 GDPR states: “In order to ensure that consent is freely given, consent should not provide a valid
legal ground for the processing of personal data in a specific case where there is a clear imbalance between the
data subject and the controller, in particular where the controller is a public authority and it is therefore unlikely
that consent was freely given in all the circumstances of that specific situation. (…)”.

16 See Article 6 GDPR, notably paragraphs (1c) and (1e).

adopted

8

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

Example 4: A public school asks students for consent to use their photographs in a printed student
magazine. Consent in these situations would be a genuine choice as long as students will not be denied
education or services and could refuse the use of these photographs without any detriment.17

An imbalance of power also occurs in the employment context.18 Given the dependency that results
from the employer/employee relationship, it is unlikely that the data subject is able to deny his/her
employer consent to data processing without experiencing the fear or real risk of detrimental effects
as a result of a refusal. It is unlikely that an employee would be able to respond freely to a request for
consent  from  his/her  employer  to,  for  example,  activate  monitoring  systems  such  as  camera
observation in a workplace, or to fill out assessment forms, without feeling any pressure to consent.19
Therefore, the EDPB deems it problematic for employers to process personal data of current or future
employees on the basis of consent as it is unlikely to be freely given. For the majority of such data
processing at work, the lawful basis cannot and should not be the consent of the employees (Article
6(1)(a)) due to the nature of the relationship between employer and employee.20

However, this does not mean that employers can never rely on consent as a lawful basis for processing.
There may be situations when it is possible for the employer to demonstrate that consent actually is
freely given. Given the imbalance of power between an employer and its staff members, employees
can only give free consent in exceptional circumstances, when it will have no adverse consequences at
all whether or not they give consent.21

Example 5: A film crew is going to be filming in a certain part of an office. The employer asks all the
employees who sit in that area for their consent to be filmed, as they may appear in the background
of the video. Those who do not want to be filmed are not penalised in any way but instead are given
equivalent desks elsewhere in the building for the duration of the filming.

Imbalances of power are not limited to public authorities and employers, they may also occur in other
situations. As highlighted by the WP29 in several Opinions, consent can only be valid if the data subject
is able to exercise a real choice, and there is no risk of deception, intimidation, coercion or significant
negative consequences (e.g. substantial extra costs) if he/she does not consent. Consent will not be
free in cases where there is any element of compulsion, pressure or inability to exercise free will.

17 For the purposes of this example, a public school means a publically funded school or any educational facility
that qualifies as a public authority or body by national law.

18 See also Article 88 GDPR, where the need for protection of the specific interests of employees is emphasised
and a possibility for derogations in Member State law is created. See also Recital 155.

19 See Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), pp. 12-14 , Opinion 8/2001 on the processing of
personal  data  in  the  employment  context  (WP  48),  Chapter  10,  Working  document  on  the  surveillance  of
electronic communications in the workplace (WP 55), paragraph 4.2 and Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at
work (WP 249), paragraph 6.2.

20 See Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work, page 6-7.

21 See also Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work (WP249), paragraph 6.2.

adopted

9

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

Conditionality

3.1.2
To assess whether consent is freely given, Article 7(4) GDPR plays an important role.22

Article 7(4) GDPR indicates that, inter alia, the situation of “bundling” consent with acceptance of
terms or conditions, or “tying” the provision of a contract or a service to a request for consent to
process  personal  data  that  are  not  necessary  for  the  performance  of  that  contract  or  service,  is
considered highly undesirable. If consent is given in this situation, it is presumed to be not freely given
(recital 43). Article 7(4) seeks to ensure that the purpose of personal data processing is not disguised
nor  bundled  with  the  provision  of  a  contract  of  a  service  for  which  these  personal  data  are  not
necessary. In doing so, the GDPR ensures that the processing of personal data for which consent is
sought cannot become directly or indirectly the counter-performance of a contract. The two lawful
bases for the lawful processing of personal data, i.e. consent and contract cannot be merged and
blurred.

Compulsion to agree with the use of personal data additional to what is strictly necessary limits data
subject’s choices  and  stands  in  the  way  of  free  consent.  As  data  protection  law  is  aiming  at  the
protection of fundamental rights, an individual’s control over their personal data is essential and there
is a strong presumption that consent to the processing of personal data that is unnecessary, cannot be
seen as a mandatory consideration in exchange for the performance of a contract or the provision of
a service.

Hence, whenever a request for consent is tied to the performance of a contract by the controller, a
data subject that does not wish to make his/her personal data available for processing by the controller
runs the risk to be denied services they have requested.

To assess whether such a situation of bundling or tying occurs, it is important to determine what the
scope of the contract is and what data would be necessary for the performance of that contract.

According to Opinion 06/2014 of WP29, the term “necessary for the performance of a contract” needs
to be interpreted strictly. The processing must be necessary to fulfil the contract with each individual
data subject. This may include, for example, processing the address of the data subject so that goods
purchased online can be delivered, or processing credit card details in order to facilitate payment. In
the employment context, this ground may allow, for example, the processing of salary information and
bank account details so that wages can be paid.23 There needs to be a direct and objective link between
the processing of the data and the purpose of the execution of the contract.

31.

If  a  controller  seeks  to  process  personal  data  that are  in  fact  necessary  for the  performance of  a
contract, then consent is not the appropriate lawful basis.24

22 Article 7(4) GDPR: “When assessing whether consent is freely given, utmost account shall be taken of whether,
inter alia, the performance of a contract, including the provision of a service, is conditional on consent to the
processing of personal data that is not necessary for the performance of that contract.” See also Recital 43 GDPR,
that states: “[…] Consent is presumed not to be freely given if it does not allow separate consent to be given to
different  personal  data  processing  operations  despite  it  being  appropriate  in  the  individual  case,  or  if  the
performance of a contract, including the provision of a service, is dependent on the consent, despite such consent
not being necessary for such performance.”

23 For more information and examples, see Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest of the data
controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, adopted by WP29 on 9 April 2014, p. 16-17. (WP 217).
24 The appropriate lawful basis could then be Article 6(1)(b) (contract).

adopted

10

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

Article 7(4) is only relevant where the requested data are not necessary for the performance of the
contract,  (including  the  provision  of  a  service),  and  the  performance  of  that  contract  is  made
conditional  on  the  obtaining  of  these  data  on  the  basis  of  consent.  Conversely,  if  processing is
necessary to perform the contract (including to provide a service), then Article 7(4) does not apply.

Example 6: A bank asks customers for consent to allow third parties to use their payment details for
direct marketing purposes. This processing activity is not necessary for the performance of the contract
with the customer and the delivery of ordinary bank account services. If the customer’s refusal to
consent to this processing purpose would lead to the denial of banking services, closure of the bank
account, or, depending on the case, an increase of the fee, consent cannot be freely given.

The choice of the legislator to highlight conditionality, amongst others, as a presumption of a lack of
freedom to consent, demonstrates that the occurrence of conditionality must be carefully scrutinized.
The term “utmost account” in Article 7(4) suggests that special caution is needed from the controller
when a contract (which could include the provision of a service) has a request for consent to process
personal data tied to it.

As the wording of Article 7(4) is not construed in an absolute manner, there might be very limited
space for cases where this conditionality would not render the consent invalid. However, the word
“presumed” in Recital 43 clearly indicates that such cases will be highly exceptional.

In any event, the burden of proof in Article 7(4) is on the controller.25 This specific rule reflects the
general  principle  of accountability, which runs  throughout  the  GDPR.  However,  when  Article  7(4)
applies, it will be more difficult for the controller to prove that consent was given freely by the data
subject.26

The controller could argue that his organisation offers data subjects genuine choice if they were able
to  choose  between  a  service  that  includes  consenting  to  the  use  of  personal  data  for  additional
purposes on the one hand, and an equivalent service offered by the same controller that does not
involve  consenting  to  data  use  for  additional  purposes  on  the  other  hand.  As  long  as  there  is  a
possibility  to  have  the  contract  performed  or  the  contracted  service  delivered  by  this  controller
without consenting to the other or additional data use in question, this means there is no longer a
conditional service. However, both services need to be genuinely equivalent.

The EDPB considers that consent cannot be considered as freely given if a controller argues that a
choice exists between its service that includes consenting to the use of personal data for additional
purposes on the one hand, and an equivalent service offered by a different controller on the other
hand. In such a case, the freedom of choice would be made dependent on what other market players
do  and  whether  an  individual  data  subject  would find  the  other  controller’s  services  genuinely

25 See also Article 7(1)  GDPR,  which states that the controller needs to demonstrate that the data subject’s
agreement was freely given.

26 To some extent, the introduction of this paragraph is a codification of existing WP29 guidance. As described in
Opinion 15/2011, when a data subject is in a situation of dependence on the data controller – due to the nature
of the relationship or to special circumstances – there may be a strong presumption that freedom to consent is
limited in such contexts (e.g. in an employment relationship or if the collection of data is performed by a public
authority). With Article 7(4) in force, it will be more difficult for the controller to prove that consent was given
freely by the data subject. See: Article 29 Working Party Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187),
pp. 12-17.

adopted

11

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

equivalent. It would furthermore imply an obligation for controllers to monitor market developments
to ensure the continued validity of consent for their data processing activities, as a competitor may
alter its service at a later stage. Hence, using this argument means a consent relying on an alternative
option offered by a third party fails to comply with the GDPR, meaning that a service provider cannot
prevent data subjects from accessing a service on the basis that they do not consent.

In  order  for  consent  to  be  freely  given,  access  to  services  and  functionalities  must  not  be  made
conditional on the consent of a user to the storing of information, or gaining of access to information
already stored, in the terminal equipment of a user (so called cookie walls)27.

Example 6a: A website provider puts into place a script that will block content from being visible except
for a request to accept cookies and the information about which cookies are being set and for what
purposes data will be processed. There is no possibility to access the content without clicking on the
“Accept cookies” button. Since the data subject is not presented with a genuine choice, its consent is
not freely given.

This does not constitute valid consent, as the provision of the service relies on the data subject clicking
the “Accept cookies” button. It is not presented with a genuine choice.

3.1.3 Granularity
A service may involve multiple processing operations for more than one purpose. In such cases, the
data subjects should be free to choose which purpose they accept, rather than having to consent to a
bundle of processing purposes. In a given case, several consents may be warranted to start offering a
service, pursuant to the GDPR.

Recital  43  clarifies  that  consent  is  presumed  not  to  be  freely  given  if  the  process/procedure  for
obtaining consent does not allow data subjects to give separate consent for personal data processing
operations respectively (e.g. only for some processing operations and not for others) despite it being
appropriate in the individual case. Recital 32 states, “Consent should cover all processing activities
carried out for the same purpose or purposes. When the processing has multiple purposes, consent
should be given for all of them”.

If the controller has conflated several purposes for processing and has not attempted to seek separate
consent for each purpose, there is a lack of freedom. This granularity is closely related to the need of
consent to be specific, as discussed in section 3.2 further below. When data processing is done in
pursuit  of  several  purposes,  the  solution  to  comply  with  the  conditions  for  valid  consent  lies  in
granularity, i.e. the separation of these purposes and obtaining consent for each purpose.

Example 7: Within the same consent request a retailer asks its customers for consent to use their data
to send them marketing by email and also to share their details with other companies within their
group. This consent is not granular as there is no separate consents for these two separate purposes,
therefore the consent will not be valid. In this case, a specific consent should be collected to send the
contact details to commercial partners. Such specific consent will be deemed valid for each partner
(see  also  section  3.3.1),  whose  identity  has  been  provided  to  the  data  subject  at  the  time  of  the
collection of his or her consent, insofar as it is sent to them for the same purpose (in this example: a
marketing purpose).

27 As clarified above, the GDPR conditions for obtaining valid consent are applicable in situations falling within
the scope of the e-Privacy Directive.

adopted

12

46.

3.1.4 Detriment
The controller  needs  to  demonstrate  that  it  is  possible  to  refuse  or  withdraw  consent  without
detriment (recital 42). For example, the controller needs to prove that withdrawing consent does not
lead to any costs for the data subject and thus no clear disadvantage for those withdrawing consent.

47. Other  examples  of  detriment  are  deception, 

intimidation,  coercion  or  significant  negative
consequences if a data subject does not consent. The controller should be able to prove that the data
subject had a free or genuine choice about whether to consent and that it was possible to withdraw
consent without detriment.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

If a controller is able to show that a service includes the possibility to withdraw consent without any
negative  consequences  e.g.  without  the  performance  of the  service  being  downgraded  to  the
detriment of the user, this may serve to show that the consent was given freely. The GDPR does not
preclude all incentives but the onus would be on the controller to demonstrate that consent was still
freely given in all the circumstances.

Example 8: When downloading a lifestyle mobile app, the app asks for consent to access the phone’s
accelerometer. This is not necessary for the app to work, but it is useful for the controller who wishes
to learn more about the movements and activity levels of its users. When the user later revokes that
consent, she finds out that the app now only works to a limited extent. This is an example of detriment
as meant in Recital 42, which means that consent was never validly obtained (and thus, the controller
needs to delete all personal data about users’ movements collected this way).

Example 9: A data subject subscribes to a fashion retailer’s newsletter with general discounts. The
retailer asks the data subject for consent to collect more data on shopping preferences to tailor the
offers to his or her preferences based on shopping history or a questionnaire that is voluntary to fill
out. When the data subject later revokes consent, he or she will receive non-personalised fashion
discounts again. This does not amount to detriment as only the permissible incentive was lost.

Example 10: A fashion magazine offers readers access to buy new make-up products before the official
launch.

The  products will  shortly be  made  available  for  sale,  but  readers of  this  magazine  are  offered an
exclusive  preview  of  these  products.  In  order  to  enjoy  this  benefit,  people  must  give  their  postal
address and agree to subscription on the mailing list of the magazine. The postal address is necessary
for shipping and the mailing list is used for sending commercial offers for products such as cosmetics
or t-shirts year round.

The company explains that the data on the mailing list will only be used for sending merchandise and
paper advertising by the magazine itself and is not to be shared with any other organisation.

In case the reader does not want to disclose their address for this reason, there is no detriment, as the
products will be available to them anyway.

3.2 Specific
Article 6(1)(a) confirms that the consent of the data subject must be given in relation to “one or more
specific” purposes and that a data subject has a choice in relation to each of them.28 The requirement

28 Further guidance on the determination of ‘purposes’ can be found in Opinion 3/2013 on purpose limitation
(WP 203).

adopted

13

that consent must be ‘specific’ aims to ensure a degree of user control and transparency for the data
subject.  This  requirement  has not  been  changed  by  the  GDPR  and  remains  closely  linked  to  the
requirement  of  'informed'  consent.  At  the  same time, it  must  be  interpreted  in  line  with  the
requirement for 'granularity' to obtain 'free' consent.29 In sum, to comply with the element of 'specific'
the controller must apply:

Purpose specification as a safeguard against function creep,

i
ii Granularity in consent requests, and
iii Clear separation of information related to obtaining consent for data processing activities from

information about other matters.

56.

57.

58.

59.

Ad.  (i): Pursuant  to  Article  5(1)(b)  GDPR,  obtaining  valid  consent  is  always  preceded  by  the
determination of a specific, explicit and legitimate purpose for the intended processing activity.30 The
need  for  specific  consent  in  combination  with  the  notion  of  purpose  limitation  in  Article  5(1)(b)
functions  as  a  safeguard  against  the  gradual  widening  or  blurring  of  purposes  for  which  data  is
processed, after a data subject has agreed to the initial collection of the data. This phenomenon, also
known as function creep, is a risk for data subjects, as it may result in unanticipated use of personal
data by the controller or by third parties and in loss of data subject control.

If  the  controller  is  relying on  Article  6(1)(a),  data  subjects  must  always  give  consent  for  a  specific
processing purpose.31 In line with the concept of purpose  limitation, Article 5(1)(b) and recital 32,
consent may cover different operations, as long as these operations serve the same purpose. It goes
without saying that specific consent can only be obtained when data subjects are specifically informed
about the intended purposes of data use concerning them.

Notwithstanding the provisions on compatibility of purposes, consent must be specific to the purpose.
Data subjects will give their consent with the understanding that they are in control and their data will
only be processed for those specified purposes. If a controller processes data based on consent and
wishes to process the data for another purpose, too, that controller needs to seek additional consent
for this other purpose unless there is another lawful basis, which better reflects the situation.

Example 11: A cable TV network collects subscribers’ personal data, based on their consent, to present
them with personal suggestions for new movies they might be interested in based on their viewing
habits. After a while, the TV network decides it would like to enable third parties to send (or display)
targeted advertising on the basis of the subscriber’s viewing habits. Given this new purpose, new
consent is needed.

60.

Ad. (ii): Consent mechanisms must not only be granular to meet the requirement of 'free', but also to
meet  the  element  of  'specific'.  This  means,  a  controller  that  seeks  consent  for  various  different

29 Recital 43 GDPR states that separate consent for different processing operations will be needed wherever
appropriate.
Granular consent options should be provided to allow data subjects to consent separately to separate purposes.

30 See WP 29 Opinion 3/2013 on purpose limitation (WP 203), p. 16, : “For these reasons, a purpose that is vague
or  general,  such  as  for  instance 'improving  users'  experience',  'marketing  purposes',  'IT-security  purposes'  or
'future research' will - without more detail - usually not meet the criteria of being ‘specific’.”

31 This is consistent with WP29 Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), for example on p. 17.

adopted

14

61.

62.

63.

64.

purposes should provide a separate opt-in for each purpose, to allow users to give specific consent for
specific purposes.

Ad. (iii): Lastly, controllers should provide specific information with each separate consent request
about the data that are processed for each purpose, in order to make data subjects aware of the impact
of the different choices they have. Thus, data subjects are enabled to give specific consent. This issue
overlaps  with  the  requirement  that  controllers must  provide  clear  information,  as  discussed  in
paragraph 3.3. below.

Informed

3.3
The GDPR reinforces the requirement that consent must be informed. Based on Article 5 of the GDPR,
the requirement for transparency is one of the fundamental principles, closely related to the principles
of fairness and lawfulness. Providing information to data subjects prior to obtaining their consent is
essential in order to enable them to make informed decisions, understand what they are agreeing to,
and for example exercise their right to withdraw their consent. If the controller does not provide
accessible  information,  user  control  becomes  illusory  and  consent  will  be  an  invalid  basis  for
processing.

The consequence of not complying with the requirements for informed consent is that consent will be
invalid and the controller may be in breach of Article 6 of the GDPR.

3.3.1 Minimum content requirements for consent to be ‘informed’
For consent to be informed, it is necessary to inform the data subject of certain elements that are
crucial to make a choice. Therefore, the EDPB is of the opinion that at least the following information
is required for obtaining valid consent:

i.

ii.

iii.

iv.

v.

the controller’s identity, 32

the purpose of each of the processing operations for which consent is sought,33

what (type of) data will be collected and used, 34

the existence of the right to withdraw consent,35

information  about  the  use  of  the  data  for  automated  decision-making  in  accordance  with
Article 22 (2)(c)36 where relevant, and

32 See also Recital 42 GDPR: “ […]For consent to be informed, the data subject should be aware at least of the
identity of the controller and the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended.[…].”

33 Again, see Recital 42 GDPR.

34 See also WP29 Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187) pp.19-20.

35 See Article 7(3) GDPR.

36 See  also  WP29  Guidelines  on  Automated  individual  decision-making  and  Profiling  for  the  purposes  of
Regulation 2016/679 (WP251), paragraph IV.B, p. 20 onwards.

adopted

15

vi.

on  the  possible  risks  of  data  transfers  due  to  absence  of  an  adequacy  decision  and  of
appropriate safeguards as described in Article 46.37

65. With regard to item (i) and (iii), the EDPB notes that in a case where the consent sought is to be relied
upon  by  multiple  (joint)  controllers  or  if the  data  is  to  be  transferred  to  or  processed  by  other
controllers  who  wish  to  rely  on  the  original  consent,  these  organisations  should  all  be  named.
Processors do not need to be named as part of the consent requirements, although to comply with
Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, controllers will need to provide a full list of recipients or categories of
recipients including processors. To conclude, the EDPB notes that depending on the circumstances and
context of a case, more information may be needed to allow the data subject to genuinely understand
the processing operations at hand.

66.

3.3.2 How to provide information
The GDPR does not prescribe the form or shape in which information must be provided in order to
fulfil the requirement of informed consent. This means valid information may be presented in various
ways, such as written or oral statements, or audio or video messages. However, the GDPR puts several
requirements for informed consent in place, predominantly in Article 7(2) and Recital 32. This leads to
a higher standard for the clarity and accessibility of the information.

67. When seeking consent, controllers should ensure that they use clear and plain language in all cases.
This  means  a  message should  be  easily  understandable  for  the  average  person  and  not  only  for
lawyers. Controllers cannot use long privacy policies that are difficult to understand or statements full
of legal jargon. Consent must be clear and distinguishable from other matters and provided in an
intelligible and easily accessible form. This requirement essentially means that information relevant
for making informed decisions on whether or not to consent may not be hidden in general terms and
conditions.38

68.

A controller must ensure that consent is provided on the basis of information that allows the data
subjects to easily identify who the controller is and to understand what they are agreeing to. The
controller must clearly describe the purpose for data processing for which consent is requested.39

69. Other specific guidance on the accessibility has been provided in the WP29 guidelines on transparency.
If consent is to be given by electronic means, the request must be clear and concise. Layered and
granular information can be an appropriate way to deal with the two-fold obligation of being precise
and complete on the one hand and understandable on the other hand.

70.

A controller must assess what kind of audience it is that provides personal data to their organisation.
For example, in case the targeted audience includes data subjects that are underage, the controller is
expected to make sure information is understandable for minors.40 After identifying their audience,

37 Pursuant to Article 49 (1)(a), specific information is required about the absence of safeguards described in
Article 46, when explicit consent is sought. See also WP29 Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP
187)p. 19.

38 The  declaration  of  consent  must  be  named  as  such.  Drafting,  such  as  “I  know  that…”  does  not  meet  the
requirement of clear language.

39 See Articles 4(11) and 7(2) GDPR.

40 See also Recital 58 regarding information understandable for children.

adopted

16

71.

72.

73.

controllers must determine what information they should provide and, subsequently how they will
present the information to data subjects.

Article  7(2)  addresses  pre-formulated  written  declarations  of consent,  which also  concern  other
matters. When consent is requested as part of a (paper) contract, the request for consent should be
clearly distinguishable from the other matters. If the paper contract includes many aspects that are
unrelated to the question of consent to the use of personal data, the issue of consent should be dealt
with in a way that clearly stands out, or in a separate document. Likewise, if consent is requested by
electronic means, the consent request has to be separate and distinct, it cannot simply be a paragraph
within terms and conditions, pursuant to Recital 32.41 To accommodate for small screens or situations
with restricted room for information, a layered way of presenting information can be considered,
where appropriate, to avoid excessive disturbance of user experience or product design.

A controller that relies on consent of the data subject must also deal with the separate information
duties laid down in Articles 13 and 14 in order to be compliant with the GDPR. In practice, compliance
with the information duties and compliance with the requirement of informed consent may lead to an
integrated approach in many cases. However, this section is written in the understanding that valid
“informed” consent can exist, even when not all elements of Articles 13 and/or 14 are mentioned in
the process of obtaining consent (these points should of course be mentioned in other places, such as
the  privacy  notice  of  a  company).  WP29  has  issued  separate  guidelines  on  the  requirement  of
transparency.

Example 12: Company X is a controller that received complaints that it is unclear to data subjects for
what purposes of data use they are asked to consent to. The company sees the need to verify whether
its information in the consent request is understandable for data subjects. X organises voluntary test
panels of specific categories of its customers and presents new updates of its consent information to
these  test  audiences  before  communicating  it  externally.  The  selection  of  the  panel  respects  the
principle of independence and is made on the basis of standards ensuring a representative, non-biased
outcome. The panel receives a questionnaire and indicates what they understood of the information
and how they would score it in terms of understandable and relevant information. The controller
continues testing until the panels indicate that the information is understandable. X draws up a report
of the test and keeps this available for future reference. This example shows a possible way for X to
demonstrate that data subjects were receiving clear information before consenting to personal data
processing by X.

74.

Example 13: A company engages in data processing on the basis of consent. The company uses a
layered privacy notice that includes a consent request. The company discloses all basic details of the
controller and the data processing activities envisaged.42 However, the company does not indicate how
their  data  protection officer  can  be  contacted  in  the  first  information  layer  of  the  notice.  For  the
purposes of having a valid lawful basis as meant in Article 6, this controller obtained valid “informed”

41 See also Recital 42 and Directive 93/13/EC, notably Article 5 (plain intelligible language and in case of doubt,
the interpretation will be in favour of consumer) and Article 6 (invalidity of unfair terms, contract continues to
exist without these terms only if still sensible, otherwise the whole contract is invalid).

42 Note that when the identity of the controller or the purpose of the processing is not apparent from the first
information layer of the layered privacy notice (and are located in further sub-layers), it will be difficult for the
data controller to demonstrate that the data subject has given informed consent, unless the data controller can
show that the data subject in question accessed that information prior to giving consent.

adopted

17

consent, even when the contact details of the data protection officer have not been communicated to
the data subject (in the first information layer), pursuant to Article 13(1)(b) or 14(1)(b) GDPR.

75.

76.

77.

78.

3.4 Unambiguous indication of wishes
The GDPR is clear that consent requires a statement from the data subject or a clear affirmative act,
which means that it must always be given through an active motion or declaration. It must be obvious
that the data subject has consented to the particular processing.

Article 2(h) of Directive 95/46/EC described consent as an “indication of wishes by which the data
subject signifies his agreement to personal data relating to him being processed”. Article 4(11) GDPR
builds on this definition, by clarifying that valid consent requires an unambiguous indication by means
of a statement or by a clear affirmative action, in line with previous guidance issued by the WP29.

A “clear affirmative act” means that the data subject must have taken a deliberate action to consent
to the particular processing.43 Recital 32 sets out additional guidance on this. Consent can be collected
through a written or (a recorded) oral statement, including by electronic means.

Perhaps the most literal way to fulfil the criterion of a “written statement” is to make sure a data
subject writes in a letter or types an email to the controller explaining what exactly he/she agrees to.
However, this is often not realistic. Written statements can come in many shapes and sizes that could
be compliant with the GDPR.

79. Without prejudice to existing (national) contract law, consent can be obtained through a recorded oral
statement, although due note must be taken of the information available to the data subject, prior to
the indication of consent. The use of pre-ticked opt-in boxes is invalid under the GDPR. Silence or
inactivity  on  the  part  of  the  data  subject,  as  well  as  merely  proceeding  with  a  service  cannot  be
regarded as an active indication of choice.

80.

81.

Example 14: When installing software, the application asks the data subject for consent to use non-
anonymised crash reports to improve the software. A layered privacy notice providing the necessary
information  accompanies  the  request  for  consent.  By  actively  ticking  the  optional  box  stating,  “I
consent”, the user is able to validly perform a ´clear affirmative act´ to consent to the processing.

A controller must also beware that consent cannot be obtained through the same motion as agreeing
to a contract or accepting general terms and conditions of a service. Blanket acceptance of general
terms and conditions cannot be seen as a clear affirmative action to consent to the use of personal

43 See Commission Staff Working Paper, Impact Assessment, Annex 2, p. 20 and also pp. 105-106: “As also pointed
out in the opinion adopted by WP29 on consent, it seems essential to clarify that valid consent requires the use
of mechanisms that leave no doubt of the data subject’s intention to consent, while making clear that – in the
context of the on-line environment – the use of default options which the data subject is required to modify in
order to reject the processing ('consent based on silence') does not in itself constitute unambiguous consent. This
would give individuals more control over their own data, whenever processing is based on his/her consent. As
regards impact on data controllers, this would not have a major impact as it solely clarifies and better spells out
the implications of the current Directive in relation to the conditions for a valid and meaningful consent from the
data subject. In particular, to the extent that 'explicit' consent would clarify – by replacing "unambiguous" – the
modalities and quality of consent and that it is not intended to extend the cases and situations where (explicit)
consent should be used as a ground for processing, the impact of this measure on data controllers is not expected
to be major.”

adopted

18

data. The GDPR does not allow controllers to offer pre-ticked boxes or opt-out constructions that
require an intervention from the data subject to prevent agreement (for example ‘opt-out boxes’).44

82. When consent is to be given following a request by electronic means, the request for consent should
not be unnecessarily disruptive to the use of the service for which the consent is provided.45 An active
affirmative motion by which the data subject indicates consent can be necessary when a less infringing
or  disturbing  modus  would  result  in  ambiguity.  Thus,  it  may  be  necessary  that  a  consent  request
interrupts the use experience to some extent to make that request effective.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

However, within the requirements of the GDPR, controllers have the liberty to develop a consent flow
that suits their organisation. In this regard, physical motions can be qualified as a clear affirmative
action in compliance with the GDPR.

Controllers should design consent mechanisms in ways that are clear to data subjects. Controllers must
avoid ambiguity and must ensure that the action by which consent is given can be distinguished from
other actions. Therefore, merely continuing the ordinary use of a website is not conduct from which
one can infer an indication of wishes by the data subject to signify his or her agreement to a proposed
processing operation.

Example 15: Swiping a bar on a screen, waiving in front of a smart camera, turning a smartphone
around clockwise, or in a figure eight motion may be options to indicate agreement, as long as clear
information is provided, and it is clear that the motion in question signifies agreement to a specific
request (e.g. if you swipe this bar to the left, you agree to the use of information X for purpose Y.
Repeat  the  motion  to  confirm.”).  The  controller  must  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  consent  was
obtained this way and data subjects must be able to withdraw consent as easily as it was given.

Example 16: Based on recital 32, actions such as scrolling or swiping through a webpage or similar user
activity will not under any circumstances satisfy the requirement of a clear and affirmative action: such
actions may  be  difficult  to  distinguish  from  other  activity  or  interaction  by  a  user  and  therefore
determining that an unambiguous consent has been obtained will also not be possible. Furthermore,
in such a case, it will be difficult to provide a way for the user to withdraw consent in a manner that is
as easy as granting it.

In  the  digital context, many  services  need  personal  data  to  function,  hence, data  subjects  receive
multiple consent requests that need answers through clicks and swipes every day. This may result in a
certain degree of click fatigue: when encountered too many times, the actual warning effect of consent
mechanisms is diminishing.

This results in a situation where consent questions are no longer read. This is a particular risk to data
subjects, as, typically, consent is asked for actions that are in principle unlawful without their consent.
The GDPR places upon controllers the obligation to develop ways to tackle this issue.

An often-mentioned example to do this in the online context is to obtain consent of Internet users via
their browser settings. Such settings should be developed in line with the conditions for valid consent

44 See Article 7(2). See also Working Document 02/2013 on obtaining consent for cookies (WP 208), pp.
3-6.
45 See Recital 32 GDPR.

adopted

19

90.

91.

92.

93.

in the GDPR, as for instance that the consent shall be granular for each of the envisaged purposes and
that the information to be provided, should name the controllers.

In any event, consent must always be obtained before the controller starts processing personal data
for which consent is needed. WP29 has consistently held in its opinions that consent should be given
prior to the processing activity.46 Although the GDPR does not literally prescribe in Article 4(11) that
consent must be given prior to the processing activity, this is clearly implied. The heading of Article
6(1) and the wording “has given” in Article 6(1)(a) support this interpretation. It follows logically from
Article 6 and Recital 40 that a valid lawful basis must be present before starting a data processing.
Therefore, consent should be given prior to the processing activity. In principle, it can be sufficient to
ask for a data subject’s consent once. However, controllers do need to obtain a new and specific
consent if purposes for data processing change after consent was obtained or if an additional purpose
is envisaged.

4 OBTAINING EXPLICIT CONSENT

Explicit consent is required in certain situations where serious data protection risk emerge, hence,
where a high level of individual control over personal data is deemed appropriate. Under the GDPR,
explicit consent plays a role in Article 9 on the processing of special categories of data, the provisions
on  data  transfers  to  third  countries  or  international  organisations  in  the  absence  of  adequate
safeguards  in  Article  4947,  and  in  Article  22  on  automated  individual  decision-making,  including
profiling.48

The  GDPR  prescribes  that  a  “statement  or  clear  affirmative  action”  is  a  prerequisite  for  ‘regular’
consent.  As  the  ‘regular’  consent  requirement  in  the  GDPR  is  already  raised  to  a  higher  standard
compared to the consent requirement in Directive 95/46/EC, it needs to be clarified what extra efforts
a controller should undertake in order to obtain the explicit consent of a data subject in line with the
GDPR.

The term explicit refers to the way consent is expressed by the data subject. It means that the data
subject must give an express statement of consent. An obvious way to make sure consent is explicit
would be to expressly confirm consent in a written statement. Where appropriate, the controller could

46 WP29 has consistently held this position since Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), pp. 30-
31.

47 According to Article 49 (1)(a) GDPR, explicit consent can lift the ban on data transfers to countries without
adequate levels of data protection law. Also note Working document on a common interpretation of Article 26(1)
of Directive 95/46/EC of 24 October 1995 (WP 114), p. 11, where WP29 has indicated that consent for data
transfers that occur periodically or on an on-going basis is inappropriate.

48 In Article 22, the GDPR introduces provisions to protect data subjects against decision-making based solely on
automated  processing,  including  profiling.  Decisions  made  on  this  basis  are  allowed  under  certain  legal
conditions. Consent plays a key role in this protection mechanism, as Article 22(2)(c) GDPR makes clear that a
controller may proceed with automated decision making, including profiling, that may significantly affect the
individual, with the data subject’s explicit consent. WP29 have produced separate guidelines on this issue: WP29
Guidelines on Automated decision-making and Profiling for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, 3 October 2017
(WP 251).

adopted

20

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

make sure the written statement is signed by the data subject, in order to remove all possible doubt
and potential lack of evidence in the future.49

However, such a signed statement is not the only way to obtain explicit consent and, it cannot be said
that the GDPR prescribes written and signed statements in all circumstances that require valid explicit
consent. For example, in the digital or online context, a data subject may be able to issue the required
statement by filling in an electronic form, by sending an email, by uploading a scanned document
carrying the signature of the data subject, or by using an electronic signature. In theory, the use of oral
statements can also be sufficiently express to obtain valid explicit consent, however, it may be difficult
to prove for the controller that all conditions for valid explicit consent were met when the statement
was recorded.

An organisation may also obtain explicit consent through a telephone conversation, provided that the
information about the choice is fair, intelligible and clear, and it asks for a specific confirmation from
the data subject (e.g. pressing a button or providing oral confirmation).

Example 17: A data controller may also obtain explicit consent from a visitor to its website by offering
an explicit consent screen that contains Yes and No check boxes, provided that the text clearly indicates
the consent, for instance “I, hereby, consent to the processing of my data”, and not for instance, “It is
clear to me that my data will be processed”. It goes without saying that the conditions for informed
consent as well as the other conditions for obtaining valid consent should be met.

Example 18: A clinic for cosmetic surgery seeks explicit consent from a patient to transfer his medical
record to an expert whose second opinion is asked on the condition of the patient. The medical record
is a digital file. Given the specific nature of the information concerned, the clinic asks for an electronic
signature of the data subject to obtain valid explicit consent and to be able to demonstrate that explicit
consent was obtained.50

Two stage verification of consent can also be a way to make sure explicit consent is valid. For example,
a data subject receives an email notifying them of the controller’s intent to process a record containing
medical data. The controller explains in the email that he asks for consent for the use of a specific set
of information for a specific purpose. If the data subjects agrees to the use of this data, the controller
asks him or her for an email reply containing the statement ‘I agree’. After the reply is sent, the data
subject receives a verification link that must be clicked, or an SMS message with a verification code, to
confirm agreement.

Article 9(2) does not recognize “necessary for the performance of a contract” as an exception to the
general prohibition to process special categories of data. Therefore, controllers and Member States
that deal with this situation should explore the specific exceptions in Article 9(2) subparagraphs (b) to
(j). Should none of the exceptions (b) to (j) apply, obtaining explicit consent in accordance with the
conditions for valid consent in the GDPR remains the only possible lawful exception to process such
data.

49 See also WP29 Opinion 15/2011, on the definition of consent (WP 187), p. 25.

50 This example is without prejudice to EU Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal
market.

adopted

21

100. Example 19: An airline company, Holiday Airways, offers an assisted travelling service for passengers
that  cannot  travel  unassisted,  for  example  due  to  a  disability.  A  customer  books  a  flight  from
Amsterdam to Budapest and requests travel assistance to be able to board the plane. Holiday Airways
requires her to provide information on her health condition to be able to arrange the appropriate
services for her (hence, there are many possibilities e.g. wheelchair on the arrival gate, or an assistant
travelling with her from A to B.) Holiday Airways asks for explicit consent to process the health data of
this customer for the purpose of arranging the requested travel assistance. -The data processed on the
basis of consent should be necessary for the requested service. Moreover, flights to Budapest remain
available without travel assistance. Please note that since that data are necessary for the provision of
the requested service, Article 7 (4) does not apply.

101. Example  20: A  successful  company  is  specialised  in  providing  custom-made  ski- and  snowboard
goggles, and other types of customised eyewear for outdoors sports. The idea is that people could
wear these without their own glasses on. The company receives orders at a central point and delivers
products from a single location all across the EU.

102.

In  order  to  be  able  to  provide  its  customised  products  to  customers  who  are  short-sighted,  this
controller requests consent for the use of information on customers’ eye condition. Customers provide
the necessary health data, such as their prescription data online when they place their order. Without
this, it is not possible to provide the requested customized eyewear. The company also offers series of
goggles with standardized correctional values. Customers that do not wish to share health data could
opt for the standard versions. Therefore, an explicit consent under Article 9 is required and consent
can be considered to be freely given.

5 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR OBTAINING VALID CONSENT

103. The GDPR introduces requirements for controllers to make additional arrangements to ensure they
obtain, and maintain and are able to demonstrate, valid consent. Article 7 of the GDPR sets out these
additional conditions for valid consent, with specific provisions on keeping records of consent and the
right to easily withdraw consent. Article 7 also applies to consent referred to in other articles of GDPR,
e.g. Articles 8 and 9. Guidance on the additional requirement to demonstrate valid consent and on
withdrawal of consent is provided below.

104.

5.1 Demonstrate consent
In Article 7(1), the GDPR clearly outlines the explicit obligation of the controller to demonstrate a data
subject's consent. The burden of proof will be on the controller, according to Article 7(1).

105. Recital 42 states: “Where processing is based on the data subject's consent, the controller should be

able to demonstrate that the data subject has given consent to the processing operation.”

106. Controllers are free to develop methods to comply with this provision in a way that is fitting in their
daily operations. At the same time, the duty to demonstrate that valid consent has been obtained by
a controller, should not in itself lead to excessive amounts of additional data processing. This means
that  controllers  should  have  enough  data  to  show  a  link  to  the  processing  (to  show  consent  was
obtained) but they shouldn’t be collecting any more information than necessary.

107.

It is up to the controller to prove that valid consent was obtained from the data subject. The GDPR
does not prescribe exactly how this must be done. However, the controller must be able to prove that
a data subject in a given case has consented. As long as a data processing activity in question lasts, the

adopted

22

obligation to demonstrate consent exists. After the processing activity ends, proof of consent should
be  kept  no  longer  then  strictly  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  or  for  the
establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims, in accordance with Article 17(3)(b) and (e).

108. For instance, the controller may keep a record of consent statements received, so he can show how
consent was obtained, when consent was obtained and the information provided to the data subject
at the time shall be demonstrable. The controller shall also be able to show that the data subject was
informed and the controller´s workflow met all relevant criteria for a valid consent. The rationale
behind this obligation in the GDPR is that controllers must be accountable with regard to obtaining
valid consent from data subjects and the consent mechanisms they have put in place. For example, in
an online context, a controller could retain information on the session in which consent was expressed,
together with documentation of the consent workflow at the time of the session, and a copy of the
information that was presented to the data subject at that time. It would not be sufficient to merely
refer to a correct configuration of the respective website.

109. Example 21: A hospital sets up a scientific research programme, called project X, for which dental
records of real patients are necessary. Participants are recruited via telephone calls to patients that
voluntarily agreed to be on a list of candidates that may be approached for this purpose. The controller
seeks explicit consent from the data subjects for the use of their dental record. Consent is obtained
during  a  phone  call  by  recording  an  oral  statement of  the  data  subject  in  which  the  data  subject
confirms that they agree to the use of their data for the purposes of project X.

110. There is no specific time limit in the GDPR for how long consent will last. How long consent lasts will
depend on the context, the scope of the original consent and the expectations of the data subject. If
the processing operations change or evolve considerably then the original consent is no longer valid.
If this is the case, then new consent needs to be obtained.

111. The EDPB recommends as a best practice that consent should be refreshed at appropriate intervals.
Providing all the information again helps to ensure the data subject remains well informed about how
their data is being used and how to exercise their rights.51

5.2 Withdrawal of consent

112. Withdrawal  of  consent  is  given  a  prominent  place  in  the  GDPR.  The  provisions  and  recitals  on
withdrawal of consent in the GDPR can be regarded as codification of the existing interpretation of this
matter in WP29 Opinions.52

113. Article 7(3) of the GDPR prescribes that the controller must ensure that consent can be withdrawn by
the data subject as easy as giving consent and at any given time. The GDPR does not say that giving
and withdrawing consent must always be done through the same action.

114. However, when consent is obtained via electronic means through only one mouse-click, swipe, or
keystroke, data subjects must, in practice, be able to withdraw that consent equally as easily. Where

51 See Article 29 Working Party guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679 WP260 rev.01 - endorsed
by the EDPB.

52 WP29 has discussed this subject in their Opinion on consent (see Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent
(WP 187), pp. 9, 13, 20, 27 and 32-33) and, inter alia, their Opinion on the use of location data. (see Opinion
5/2005 on the use of location data with a view to providing value-added services (WP 115), p. 7).

adopted

23

consent is obtained through use of a service-specific user interface (for example, via a website, an app,
a log-on account, the interface of an IoT device or by e-mail), there is no doubt a data subject must be
able to withdraw consent via the same electronic interface, as switching to another interface for the
sole reason of withdrawing consent would require undue effort. Furthermore, the data subject should
be able to withdraw his/her consent without detriment. This means, inter alia, that a controller must
make withdrawal of consent possible free of charge or without lowering service levels.53

115. Example 22: A music festival sells tickets through an online ticket agent. With each online ticket sale,
consent is requested in order to use contact details for marketing purposes. To indicate consent for
this purpose, customers can select either No or Yes. The controller informs customers that they have
the  possibility  to  withdraw  consent. To  do  this,  they could  contact  a  call centre on  business  days
between 8am and 5pm, free of charge. The controller in this example does not comply with article 7(3)
of the GDPR. Withdrawing consent in this case requires a telephone call during business hours, this is
more  burdensome  than  the  one  mouse-click  needed  for  giving  consent  through  the  online  ticket
vendor, which is open 24/7.

116. The requirement of an easy withdrawal is described as a necessary aspect of valid consent in the GDPR.
If the withdrawal right does not meet the GDPR requirements, then the consent mechanism of the
controller does not comply with the GDPR. As mentioned in section 3.1 on the condition of informed
consent, the controller must inform the data subject of the right to withdraw consent prior to actually
giving consent, pursuant to Article 7(3) of the GDPR. Additionally, the controller must as part of the
transparency obligation inform the data subjects on how to exercise their rights.54

117. As a general rule, if consent is withdrawn, all data processing operations that were based on consent
and took place before the withdrawal of consent - and in accordance with the GDPR - remain lawful,
however, the controller must stop the processing actions concerned. If there is no other lawful basis
justifying the processing (e.g. further storage) of the data, they should be deleted by the controller.55

118. As mentioned earlier in these guidelines, it is very important that controllers assess the purposes for
which data is actually processed and the lawful grounds on which it is based prior to collecting the
data. Often companies need personal data for several purposes, and the processing is based on more
than one lawful basis, e.g. customer data may be based on contract and consent. Hence, a withdrawal
of consent does not mean a controller must erase data that are processed for a purpose that is based
on the performance of the contract with the data subject. Controllers should therefore be clear from
the outset about which purpose applies to each element of data and which lawful basis is being relied
upon.

53 See also opinion WP29 Opinion 4/2010 on the European code of conduct of FEDMA for the use of personal
data in direct marketing (WP 174) and the Opinion on the use of location data with a view to providing value-
added services (WP 115).

54 Recital 39 GDPR, which refers to Articles 13 and 14 of that Regulation, states that “natural persons should be
made aware of risks, rules, safeguards and rights in relation to the processing of personal data and how to
exercise their rights in relation to such processing.

55 See Article 17(1)(b) and (3) GDPR.

adopted

24

119. Controllers have an obligation to delete data that was processed on the basis of consent once that
consent is withdrawn, assuming that there is no other purpose justifying the continued retention.56
Besides this situation, covered in Article 17 (1)(b), an individual data subject may request erasure of
other  data  concerning  him  that  is  processed  on  another  lawful  basis,  e.g. on  the  basis  of  Article
6(1)(b).57 Controllers are obliged to assess whether continued processing of the data in question is
appropriate, even in the absence of an erasure request by the data subject.58

120.

In cases where the data subject withdraws his/her consent and the controller wishes to continue to
process the personal data on another lawful basis, they cannot silently migrate from consent (which is
withdrawn) to this other lawful basis. Any change in the lawful basis for processing must be notified to
a data subject in accordance with the information requirements in Articles 13 and 14 and under the
general principle of transparency.

6 INTERACTION BETWEEN CONSENT AND OTHER LAWFUL GROUNDS

IN ARTICLE 6 GDPR

121. Article 6 sets the conditions for a lawful personal data processing and describes six lawful bases on
which a controller can rely. The application of one of these six bases must be established prior to the
processing activity and in relation to a specific purpose.59

122.

123.

It is important to note here that if a controller chooses to rely on consent for any part of the processing,
they must be prepared to respect that choice and stop that part of the processing if an individual
withdraws consent. Sending out the message that data will be processed on the basis of consent, while
actually some other lawful basis is relied on, would be fundamentally unfair to individuals.

In other words, the controller cannot swap from consent to other lawful bases. For example, it is not
allowed to retrospectively utilise the legitimate interest basis in order to justify processing, where
problems have been encountered with the validity of consent. Because of the requirement to disclose
the  lawful basis,  which the  controller  is  relying  upon  at  the  time  of  collection  of  personal  data,
controllers must have decided in advance of collection what the applicable lawful basis is.

7 SPECIFIC AREAS OF CONCERN IN THE GDPR

7.1 Children (Article 8)

124. Compared to the current directive, the GDPR creates an additional layer of protection where personal
data of vulnerable natural persons, especially children, are processed. Article 8 introduces additional
obligations to ensure an enhanced level of data protection of children in relation to information society
services. The reasons for the enhanced protection are specified in Recital 38: “ [...] they may be less
aware  of  the  risks,  consequences  and  safeguards  concerned  and  their  rights  in  relation  to  the

56 In that case, the other purpose justifying the processing must have its own separate legal basis. This does not
mean the controller can swap from consent to another lawful basis, see section 6 below.

57 See Article 17, including exceptions that may apply, and Recital 65
GDPR.

58 See also Article 5 (1)(e) GDPR.
59 Pursuant to Articles 13 (1)(c) and/or 14(1)(c), the controller must inform the data subject thereof.

adopted

25

processing  of  personal  data  [...]” Recital  38  also  states  that  “Such  specific  protection  should,  in
particular,  apply to  the  use  of  personal  data  of  children  for  the  purposes  of  marketing  or  creating
personality or user profiles and the collection of personal data with regard to children when using
services offered directly to a child.” The words ‘in particular’ indicate that the specific protection is not
confined to marketing or profiling but includes the wider ‘collection of personal data with regard to
children’.

125. Article 8(1) states that where consent applies, in relation to the offer of information society services
directly to a child, the processing of the personal data of a child shall be lawful where the child is at
least 16 years old. Where the child is below the age of 16 years, such processing shall be lawful only if
and to the extent that consent is given or authorised by the holder of parental responsibility over the
child.60 Regarding  the  age  limit of valid  consent the GDPR  provides  flexibility, Member  States  can
provide by law a lower age, but this age cannot be below 13 years.

126. As mentioned in section 3.1. on informed consent, the information shall be understandable to the
audience addressed by the controller, paying particular attention to the position of children. In order
to obtain “informed consent” from a child, the controller must explain in language that is clear and
plain for children how it intends to process the data it collects.61 If it is the parent that is supposed to
consent, then a set of information may be required that allows adults to make an informed decision.

127.

It is clear from the foregoing that Article 8 shall only apply when the following conditions are met:





The processing is related to the offer of information society services directly to a child.62, 63

The processing is based on consent.

7.1.1 Information society service

128. To determine the scope of the term ‘information society service” in the GDPR, reference is made in

Article 4(25) GDPR to Directive 2015/1535.

60 Without prejudice to the possibility of Member State law to derogate from the age limit, see Article 8(1).

61 Recital 58 GDPR re-affirms this obligation, in stating that, where appropriate, a controller should make sure
the information provided is understandable for children.
62 According to Article 4(25) GDPR an information society service means a service as defined in point (b) of Article
1(1)  of  Directive  2015/1535: “(b)  ‘service’  means  any  Information  Society  service,  that  is  to  say,  any  service
normally provided for remuneration, at a distance, by electronic means and at the individual request of a recipient
of services. For the purposes of this definition: (i) ‘at a distance’ means that the service is provided without the
parties being simultaneously present; (ii) ‘by electronic means’ means that the service is sent initially and received
at its destination by means of electronic equipment for the processing (including digital compression) and storage
of  data,  and  entirely  transmitted,  conveyed  and  received  by  wire,  by  radio,  by  optical  means  or  by  other
electromagnetic means; (iii) ‘at the individual request of a recipient of services’ means that the service is provided
through the transmission of data on individual request.” An indicative list of services not covered by this definition
is set out in Annex I of the said Directive. See also Recital 18 of Directive 2000/31.
63 According to the UN Convention on the Protection of the Child, Article 1, “[…] a child means every human being
below the age of eighteen years unless under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier,” see
United Nations, General Assembly Resolution 44/25 of 20 November 1989 (Convention on the Rights of the
Child).

adopted

26

129. While assessing the scope of this definition, the EDPB also refers to case law of the ECJ.64 The ECJ held
that information society services cover contracts and other services that are concluded or transmitted
on-line.  Where a  service  has  two  economically  independent  components,  one  being  the  online
component, such as the offer and the acceptance of an offer in the context of the conclusion of a
contract  or  the  information  relating  to  products  or  services,  including  marketing activities,  this
component  is  defined  as  an  information  society  service,  the  other  component  being  the  physical
delivery or distribution of goods is not covered by the notion of an information society service. The
online delivery of a service would fall within the scope of the term information society service in Article
8 GDPR.

7.1.2 Offered directly to a child

130. The inclusion of the wording ‘offered directly to a child’ indicates that Article 8 is intended to apply to
some, not all information society services. In this respect, if an information society service provider
makes it clear to potential users that it is only offering its service to persons aged 18 or over, and this
is not undermined by other evidence (such as the content of the site or marketing plans) then the
service will not be considered to be ‘offered directly to a child’ and Article 8 will not apply.

7.1.3 Age

131. The  GDPR  specifies  that “Member  States  may  provide  by  law  for  a  lower  age  for  those  purposes
provided that such lower age is not below 13 years.” The controller must be aware of those different
national laws, by taking into account the public targeted by its services. In particular, it should be noted
that a controller providing a cross-border service cannot always rely on complying with only the law of
the Member State in which it has its main establishment but may need to comply with the respective
national laws of each Member State in which it offers the information society service(s). This depends
on whether a Member State chooses to use the place of main establishment of the controller as a point
of reference in its national law, or the residence of the data subject. First of all the Member States shall
consider the best interests of the child during making their choice. The Working Group encourages the
Member States to search for a harmonized solution in this matter.

132. When providing information society services to children on the basis of consent, controllers will be
expected to make reasonable efforts to verify that the user is over the age of digital consent, and these
measures should be proportionate to the nature and risks of the processing activities.

133.

If  the  users  state  that  they  are  over  the  age  of  digital  consent  then  the  controller  can  carry  out
appropriate checks to verify that this statement is true. Although the need to undertake reasonable
efforts to verify age is not explicit in the GDPR it is implicitly required, for if a child gives consent while
not old enough to provide valid consent on their own behalf, then this will render the processing of
data unlawful.

134.

If the user states that he/she is below the age of digital consent then the controller can accept this
statement without further checks, but will need to go on to obtain parental authorisation and verify
that the person providing that consent is a holder of parental responsibility.

64 See European Court of Justice, 2 December 2010 Case C-108/09, (Ker-Optika), paragraphs 22 and 28. In relation
to ‘composite services’, the EDPB also refers to Case C-434/15 (Asociacion Profesional Elite Taxi v Uber Systems
Spain SL), para 40, which states that an information society service forming an integral part of an overall service
whose main  component is not an information  society  service (in this case a transport service),  must not be
qualified as ‘an information society service’.

adopted

27

135. Age verification should not lead to excessive data processing. The mechanism chosen to verify the age
of a data subject should involve an assessment of the risk of the proposed processing. In some low-risk
situations, it may be appropriate to require a new subscriber to a service to disclose their year of birth
or to fill out a form stating they are (not) a minor.65 If doubts arise, the controller should review their
age verification mechanisms in a given case and consider whether alternative checks are required.66

7.1.4 Children’s consent and parental responsibility

136. Regarding the authorisation of a holder of parental responsibility, the GDPR does not specify practical
ways to gather the parent’s consent or to establish that someone is entitled to perform this action.67
Therefore, the EDPB recommends the adoption of a proportionate approach, in line with Article 8(2)
GDPR and Article 5(1)(c) GDPR (data minimisation). A proportionate approach may be to focus on
obtaining a limited amount of information, such as contact details of a parent or guardian.

137. What is reasonable, both in terms of verifying that a user is old enough to provide their own consent,
and in terms of verifying that a person providing consent on behalf of a child is a holder of parental
responsibility,  may  depend  upon  the  risks  inherent  in  the  processing  as  well  as  the  available
technology.  In  low-risk  cases,  verification  of  parental  responsibility  via  email  may  be  sufficient.
Conversely, in high-risk cases, it may be appropriate to ask for more proof, so that the controller is able
to verify and retain the information pursuant to Article 7(1) GDPR.68 Trusted third party verification
services may offer solutions, which minimise the amount of personal data the controller has to process
itself.

138. Example 23: An online gaming platform wants to make sure underage customers only subscribe to its

services with the consent of their parents or guardians. The controller follows these steps:

139. Step 1: ask the user to state whether they are under or over the age of 16 (or alternative age of digital

consent) If the user states that they are under the age of digital consent:

140. Step 2: service informs the child that a parent or guardian needs to consent or authorise the processing
before the service is provided to the child. The user is requested to disclose the email address of a
parent or guardian.

141. Step 3: service contacts the parent or guardian and obtains their consent via email for processing and

take reasonable steps to confirm that the adult has parental responsibility.

142. Step 4: in case of complaints, the platform takes additional steps to verify the age of the subscriber.

65 Although this may not be a watertight solution in all cases, it is an example to deal with this provision

66 See WP29 Opinion 5/2009 on social networking services (WP 163).

67 WP 29 notes that it not always the case that the holder of parental responsibility is the natural parent of the
child and that parental responsibility can be held by multiple parties which may include legal as well as natural
persons.

68 For example, a parent or guardian could be asked to make a payment of €0,01 to the controller via a bank
transaction, including a brief confirmation in the description line of the transaction that the bank account holder
is a holder of parental responsibility over the user. Where appropriate, an alternative method of verification
should be provided to prevent undue discriminatory treatment of persons that do not have a bank account.

adopted

28

143.

If the platform has met the other consent requirements, the platform can comply with the additional
criteria of Article 8 GDPR by following these steps.

144. The example shows that the controller can put itself in a position to show that reasonable efforts have
been made to ensure that valid consent has been obtained, in relation to the services provided to a
child. Article 8(2) particularly adds that “The controller shall make reasonable efforts to verify that
consent  is  given  or  authorised  by  the  holder  of  parental  responsibility  over  the  child,  taking  into
consideration available technology.”

145.

It is up to the controller to determine what measures are appropriate in a specific case. As a general
rule, controllers should avoid verification solutions which themselves involve excessive collection of
personal data.

146. The EDPB acknowledges that there may be cases where verification is challenging (for example where
children providing their own consent have not yet established an ‘identity footprint’, or where parental
responsibility is not easily checked. This can be taken into account when deciding what efforts are
reasonable, but controllers will also be expected to keep their processes and the available technology
under constant review.

147. With regard to the data subject’s autonomy to consent to the processing of their personal data and
have full control over the processing, consent by a holder of parental responsibility or authorized by a
holder of parental responsibility for the processing of personal data of children can be confirmed,
modified or withdrawn, once the data subject reaches the age of digital consent.

148.

In practice, this means that if the child does not take any action, consent given by a holder of parental
responsibility or authorized by a holder of parental responsibility for the processing of personal data
given prior to the age of digital consent, will remain a valid ground for processing.

149. After reaching the age of digital consent, the child will have the possibility to withdraw the consent
himself, in line with Article 7(3). In accordance with the principles of fairness and accountability, the
controller must inform the child about this possibility.69

150.

It is important to point out that in accordance with Recital 38, consent by a parent or guardian is not
required in the context of preventive or counselling services offered directly to a child. For example
the provision of child protection services offered online to a child by means of an online chat service
do not require prior parental authorisation.

151. Finally, the GDPR states that the rules concerning parental authorization requirements vis-à-vis minors
shall not interfere with “the general contract law of Member States such as the rules on the validity,
formation or effect of a contract in relation to a child”. Therefore, the requirements for valid consent
for the use of data about children are part of a legal framework that must be regarded as separate
from national contract law. Therefore, this guidance paper does not deal with the question whether it
is lawful for a minor to conclude online contracts. Both legal regimes may apply simultaneously, and,
the scope of the GDPR does not include harmonization of national provisions of contract law.

69 Also, data subjects should be aware of the right to be forgotten as laid down in Article 17, which is in particular
relevant for consent given when the data subject was still a child, see recital 63.

adopted

29

152.

7.2 Scientific research

153. The  definition  of  scientific  research  purposes  has  substantial  ramifications  for  the  range  of  data
processing activities a controller may undertake. The term ‘scientific research’ is not defined in the
GDPR. Recital 159 states “(…) For the purposes of this Regulation, the processing of personal data for
scientific  research  purposes  should  be  interpreted  in  a  broad  manner. (…)”,  however the  EDPB
considers  the  notion  may  not  be  stretched  beyond  its  common  meaning  and  understands  that
‘scientific research’ in this context means a research project set up in accordance with relevant sector-
related methodological and ethical standards, in conformity with good practice.

154. When consent is the legal basis for conducting research in accordance with the GDPR, this consent for
the use of personal data should be distinguished from other consent requirements that serve as an
ethical  standard or  procedural  obligation.  An  example  of  such  a  procedural obligation, where the
processing is based not on consent but on another legal basis, is to be found in the Clinical Trials
Regulation. In the context of data protection law, the latter form of consent could be considered as an
additional safeguard.70 At the same time, the GDPR does not restrict the application of Article 6 to
consent alone, with regard to processing data for research purposes. As long as appropriate safeguards
are in place, such as the requirements under Article 89(1), and the processing is fair, lawful, transparent
and accords with data minimisation standards and individual rights, other lawful bases such as Article
6(1)(e)  or  (f)  may  be  available.71 This  also  applies  to  special  categories  of  data  pursuant  to  the
derogation of Article 9(2)(j).72

155. Recital 33 seems to bring some flexibility to the degree of specification and granularity of consent in
the context of scientific research. Recital 33 states: “It is often not possible to fully identify the purpose
of personal data processing for scientific research purposes at the time of data collection. Therefore,
data subjects should be allowed to give their consent to certain areas of scientific research when in
keeping  with  recognised  ethical  standards  for  scientific  research.  Data  subjects  should  have  the
opportunity to give their consent only to certain areas of research or parts of research projects to the
extent allowed by the intended purpose.”

156. First,  it  should  be  noted  that  Recital  33  does  not  disapply  the  obligations  with  regard  to  the
requirement of specific consent. This means that, in principle, scientific research projects can only
include personal data on the basis of consent if they have a well-described purpose. For the cases
where purposes for data processing within a scientific research project cannot be specified at the
outset, Recital 33 allows as an exception that the purpose may be described at a more general level.

157. Considering the strict conditions stated by Article 9 GDPR regarding the processing of special categories
of data, the EDPB notes that when special categories of data are processed on the basis of explicit

70 See also Recital 161 of the GDPR.

71 Article 6(1)(c) may also be applicable for parts of the processing operations specifically required by law, such
as gathering reliable and robust data following the protocol as approved by the Member State under the Clinical
Trial Regulation.

72 Specific testing of medicinal products may take place on the basis of an EU or national law pursuant to Article
9(2)(i).

adopted

30

consent, applying the flexible approach of Recital 33 will be subject to a stricter interpretation and
requires a high degree of scrutiny.

158. When regarded as a whole, the GDPR cannot be interpreted to allow for a controller to navigate around

the key principle of specifying purposes for which consent of the data subject is asked.

159. When research purposes cannot be fully specified, a controller must seek other ways to ensure the
essence of the consent requirements are served best, for example, to allow data subjects to consent
for a research purpose in more general terms and for specific stages of a research project that are
already known to take place at the outset. As the research advances, consent for subsequent steps in
the project can be obtained before that next stage begins. Yet, such a consent should still be in line
with the applicable ethical standards for scientific research.

160. Moreover,  the  controller  may  apply  further  safeguards  in  such  cases.  Article  89(1),  for  example,
highlights the need for safeguards in data processing activities for scientific or historical or statistical
purposes.  These  purposes  “shall  be  subject  to  appropriate  safeguards,  in  accordance  with  this
regulation, for the rights and freedoms of data subject.” Data minimization, anonymisation and data
security are mentioned as possible safeguards.73 Anonymisation is the preferred solution as soon as
the purpose of the research can be achieved without the processing of personal data.

161. Transparency is an additional safeguard when the circumstances of the research do not allow for a
specific consent. A lack of purpose specification may be offset by information on the development of
the purpose being provided regularly by controllers as the research project progresses so that, over
time, the consent will be as specific as possible. When doing so, the data subject has at least a basic
understanding of the state of play, allowing him/her to assess whether or not to use, for example, the
right to withdraw consent pursuant to Article 7(3).74

162. Also, having a comprehensive research plan available for data subjects to take note of, before they
consent could help to compensate a lack of purpose specification.75 This research plan should specify
the research questions and working methods envisaged as clearly as possible. The research plan could
also contribute to compliance with Article 7(1), as controllers need to show what information was

73 See for example Recital 156. The processing of personal data for scientific purposes should also comply with
other relevant legislation such as on clinical trials, see Recital 156, mentioning Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials on medicinal products for human
use. See also WP29 Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), p. 7: “Moreover, obtaining consent
does not negate the controller's obligations under Article 6 with regard to fairness, necessity and proportionality,
as well as data quality. For instance, even if the processing of personal data is based on the consent of the user,
this would not legitimise the collection of data which is excessive in relation to a particular purpose.” […] As a
principle,  consent  should  not  be  seen  as  an  exemption  from  the  other  data  protection  principles,  but  as  a
safeguard. It is primarily a ground for lawfulness, and it does not waive the application of other principles.”

74 Other transparency measures may also be relevant. When controllers engage in data processing for scientific
purposes, while full information cannot be provided at the outset, they could designate a specific contact person
for data subjects to address with questions.

75 Such a possibility can be found in Article 14(1) of the current Personal Data Act of Finland (Henkilötietolaki,
523/1999).

adopted

31

available to data subjects at the time of consent in order to be able to demonstrate that consent is
valid.

163.

It is important to recall that where consent is being used as the lawful basis for processing there must
be a possibility for a data subject to withdraw that consent. The EDPB notes that withdrawal of consent
could undermine types scientific research that require data that can be linked to individuals, however
the GDPR is clear that consent can be withdrawn and controllers must act upon this – there is no
exemption to this requirement for scientific research. If a controller receives a withdrawal request, it
must in principle delete the personal data straight away if it wishes to continue to use the data for the
purposes of the research.76

164.

7.3 Data subject’s rights
If a data processing activity is based on a data subject’s consent, this will affect that individual’s rights.
Data subjects may have the right to data portability (Article 20) when processing is based on consent.
At the same time, the right to object (Article 21) does not apply when processing is based on consent,
although the right to withdraw consent at any time may provide a similar outcome.

165. Articles 16 to 20 of the GDPR indicate that (when data processing is based on consent), data subjects
have the right to erasure when consent has been withdrawn and the rights to restriction, rectification
and access.77

8

CONSENT OBTAINED UNDER DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC

166. Controllers  that  currently  process  data  on  the  basis  of  consent  in  compliance  with  national  data
protection law are not automatically required to completely refresh all existing consent relations with
data subjects in preparation for the GDPR. Consent, which has been obtained, to date continues to be
valid in so far as it is in line with the conditions laid down in the GDPR.

167.

It is important for controllers to review current work processes and records in detail, before 25 May
2018, to be sure existing consents meet the GDPR standard (see Recital 171 of the GDPR78). In practice,
the GDPR raises the bar with regard to implementing consent mechanisms and introduces several new

76 See also WP29 Opinion 05/2014 on "Anonymisation Techniques" (WP216).

77 In cases where certain data processing activities are restricted in accordance with Article 18, GDPR, consent of
the data subject may be needed to lift restrictions.

78 Recital 171 GDPR states: “Directive 95/46/EC should be repealed by this Regulation. Processing already under
way on the date of application of this Regulation should be brought into conformity with this Regulation within
the  period of  two  years  after  which  this  Regulation  enters  into  force.  Where  processing  is  based on consent
pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC, it is not necessary for the data subject to give his or her consent again if the
manner in which the consent has been given is in line with the conditions of this Regulation, so as to allow the
controller  to  continue  such  processing  after  the  date  of application  of  this  Regulation.  Commission  decisions
adopted  and  authorisations  by  supervisory  authorities  based  on  Directive  95/46/EC  remain  in  force  until
amended, replaced or repealed.”

adopted

32

requirements  that  require  controllers  to  alter  consent  mechanisms,  rather  than  rewriting  privacy
policies alone.79

168.

For example, as the GDPR requires that a controller must be able to demonstrate that valid consent
was obtained, all presumed consents of which no references are kept will automatically be below the
consent  standard  of  the  GDPR  and  will  need  to  be  renewed.  Likewise  as  the  GDPR  requires  a
“statement or a clear affirmative action”, all presumed consents that were based on a more implied
form of action by the data subject (e.g. a pre-ticked opt-in box) will also not be apt to the GDPR
standard of consent.

169. Furthermore, to be able to demonstrate that consent was obtained or to allow for more granular
indications  of  the  data  subject’s  wishes,  operations  and  IT  systems  may  need  revision.  Also,
mechanisms for data subjects to withdraw their consent easily must be available and information
about how to withdraw consent must be provided. If existing procedures for obtaining and managing
consent  do  not meet the GDPR’s standards,  controllers  will  need  to obtain  fresh  GDPR compliant
consent.

170. On the other hand, as not all elements named in Articles 13 and 14 must always be present as a
condition  for  informed  consent,  the  extended  information  obligations  under  the  GDPR  do  not
necessarily oppose the continuity of consent, which has been granted before the GDPR enters into
force  (see  page  15  above).  Under  Directive  95/46/EC,  there  was  no  requirement  to  inform  data
subjects of the basis upon which the processing was being conducted.

171.

If a controller finds that the consent previously obtained under the old legislation will not meet the
standard of GDPR consent, then controllers must undertake action to comply with these standards, for
example by refreshing consent in a GDPR-compliant way. Under the GDPR, it is not possible to swap
between one lawful basis and another. If a controller is unable to renew consent in a compliant way
and is also unable –as a one off situation- to make the transition to GDPR compliance by basing data
processing on a different lawful basis while ensuring that continued processing is fair and accounted
for,  the  processing  activities  must  be  stopped.  In  any event, the  controller  needs  to  observe  the
principles of lawful, fair and transparent processing.

79 As indicated in the introduction, the GDPR provides further clarification and specification of the requirements
for obtaining and demonstrating valid consent. Many of the new requirements build upon Opinion 15/2011 on
consent.

adopted

33

