 

                                                                

                                                   

 

Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments from November 26, 2020

100th data protection conference met successfully

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
of the countries (Data Protection Conference - DSK) on November 25th and 26th, 2020
met via video for their 100th meeting since their inception (see press release
the DSK of November 19, 2020).

The anniversary meeting was chaired by the Saxon Da-
data protection officer Andreas Schurig. The conference dealt with i.a. with
the question of the data protection-compliant use of Windows 10 (version "Enter
prize”), with the initiative taken by the German EU Council Presidency
Softening of end-to-end encryption in favor of security
authorities and news services, with the legal structure of the telecom
communication inventory data information, with initiatives to centralize the data
protection supervision and with the implementation in Germany, which is still pending
the "ePrivacy" directive (RL 2002/58/EG).

Andreas Schurig: “The 100th DSK also dealt with fundamental rights and freedoms
of the people concerned. Since the early 1970s, the
German supervisory authorities citizens compared to the public
and non-public bodies in asserting their rights. freedom and
mokratie do not thrive without the individual being given the freedom they need
State, the social insurance, the municipalities and all other public ones
Place. Informational self-determination is also important towards companies,
especially compared to the economically often enormously superior companies
Information industry, the often controversial and crucial point.”

In detail:

- Again, the conference dealt with both the telemetry functions of
Microsoft Windows 10, "Enterprise" version, as well as with the Microsoft
data protection improvements announced for MS Office 365. To the
A DSK working group had to determine telemetry functions in three test scenarios
found before that those responsible when using the Enterprise version die
Use the "Security" telemetry level and contractually, technically or organizationally

 

 



                                                                

                                                   

technically have to ensure that no transmission of personal tele-
metry data to Microsoft takes place. With regard to MS Office 365, the
DSK continues to stay in touch with Microsoft. For both items
the DSK value the consideration of the judgment of the European
Court of Justice on the transfer of personal data to insecure third parties
States of 16 July 2020 (C-311/18) ("Schrems II").

- Clearly, the DSK rejects demands for access by the security authorities

and secret services on encrypted communication in messenger services
ten and private communication. She points in an on November 25th
2020 resolution indicates that the erosion of ver-
coding solutions, as proposed by the Council of the European Union in the resolute
Draft no. 12143/1/20 of November 6, 2020 "Security through
encryption and security despite encryption” is suggested, contra-
productive and easily circumvented by criminals and terrorists
could. Secure and trustworthy encryption, on the other hand, is
essential prerequisite for resilient digitization in business
society and administration. Companies must protect themselves from industrial espionage
can protect. Citizens must be able to rely on a safe and
tegre use of digital administrative services. closures
ment is also a key means of data transmission in insecure
third countries. The "Schrems II" judgment of the European Court of Justice has
newly made clear.

-

In the interest of legal certainty, the DSK appeals with a further decision
closure to the federal legislature, finally the specifications of the federal
Constitutional Court of May 2020 on the design of the manual inventory
to implement data disclosure procedures. The court recognized that
probably the transmission of data by telecommunications service providers
as well as retrieval by authorized bodies (e.g. public prosecutors)
because they require a proportionate and clear basis ("Dop-
peltür model"). The current version of § 113 Telecommunications Act
set and the retrieval standards on the part of the recipient groups meet these
requirements not. The conference calls on federal and state legislators to
request that the manual information procedure for security authorities and
to make intelligence services conform to the constitution as quickly as possible.

- The conference also calls on the legislator to finally introduce the ePri-
vacy directive of the European Communities from 2002 (RL
2002/58/EG) fully and in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
of 2018 into German law. According to Art. 5 Para. 3 ePrivacy

 

 

 

 
 

 



 
 

 

                                                                

                                                   

 

Directive requires an active informed consent of the user, in particular
especially when the person responsible sets "cookies". website operator
and other actors that use their services in relation to, among other things, "cookies"
lawfully, need legal clarity and certainty.

The DSK also clearly opposes demands for centralization
data protection supervision in the non-public area. Andreas Schurig: "The
Regulatory authorities at federal and state level enjoy a high professional reputation. your central
centralization would be downright counterproductive, because centralization also means
farther away from the concerns and concrete circumstances of the people concerned
to be. Instead of unnecessary centralization debates, care should be taken
that all supervisory authorities fulfill their statutory duties in terms of personnel and organization
ben can fully fulfil.”

Other topics at the 100th DSK included: the improvement of cooperation
in the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) and the future functioning of the
DSK.

The 101st DSK, scheduled for April 2021, will be chaired by the Saarland
stand.

Questions, especially about the resolution texts, with Mr. Andreas Schnei-
der, spokesman for the Saxon data protection officer, 0351 - 85471-120;
andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de

 

 

 

