The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection publishes orientation
help for consent to data processing by Bavarian public authorities

 

Munich, September 16, 2021

A person responsible may only process personal data if he has a
legal basis is available. With consent, the person in order to
ren data, create such a legal basis. The situation is from everyday life
known: on websites, cookie banners ask for consent, online shops can
Grant consent for the integration of payment services
  or communities
for publications about club celebrations in local newsletters.

 the or the individual
Consent is first and foremost an instrument of self-determination
ultimately knows best what to do with his or her data. All-
However, consent is quickly signed or clicked on. From the perspective of
Data protection law must always remain voluntary, on the basis of
sufficient information. What Public Sector Leaders When Obtaining
Consents have to be observed, which presupposes the effectiveness of such a declaration
and when they even serve as a legal basis for data processing by authorities
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection explains this in
a new, comprehensive guide.

processing by Bavarian public authorities are in
many cases regulated in detail by law. In which cases consent as a supplementary
comes into consideration as the sole legal basis, it is not always easy
question to be answered. My new guide doesn't just want the Bavarian one
State authorities and municipalities have the necessary background knowledge of data protection
media, but also to help interested citizens to communicate with public
public

 

https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
 consent
and practical aids

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

-

Data Protection Reform 2018

  orientation

 

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

