 

Process No. 9425/2018

AUTHORIZATION No. 7031/ 2018

CONSERVAS PORTUGAL NORTE, LDA. notified a processing of personal data resulting from the
control of use for private purposes of information and communication technologies, with the
purpose of Management of the company's resources/Management of the productivity of workers in the
workers.
It was declared:

 Landline/mobile/electronic mail/Internet access is subject to control;
 Who does not have workers covered by a special obligation of secrecy;
 Adopting Internal Regulations on the use of information media and
communication in the organization, in accordance with the Deliberation of the National Commission
of Data Protection (CNPD) no. 1638/20131;

 That there is no Workers' Commission.

The CNPD, in Deliberation no.
guidelines and rules to which the processing of personal data must comply with the purpose
referred to above. They derive from these principles and rules and from the legal norms enunciated, in
of Law No. 67/98, of October 26, amended by Law No. 103/2015, of August 24, and also
of jurisprudence, the following general limits apply, regardless of the means subject to
control:

 Access to the content of communications is prohibited;
 The extraction of communications listings is not authorized, even for alleged

personal control;

 The use of systems and applications that, without the knowledge of the
worker, allow the control of his activity and the operations he carries out in the
computer, namely by remote access or sharing a graphic environment, either in
real time, or in deferred time by recording them;

 It is not authorized to centrally automate the scanning of information,



namely by search methods known as e-discovery;
 It is not authorized that, in a centralized way, without the knowledge of the worker,
searches for documents or messages based on selected expressions.

The following specific limits also apply depending on the means under control:
 
Telephone Communications
- In situations of detailed invoicing, the registration must be carried out with the elimination of the last
four digits.
 
 E-mail
- Permanent and systematic control is not allowed, which must be done randomly;
- Access must be limited to the subject, date and time of messages and the visualization of addresses
addressees only in the specific cases mentioned in the Resolution.
 
 Internet
- Permanent and systematic access control is not allowed;
- It is not allowed to control the sites visited;
- Access to the personal profile of workers on social networks is prohibited.
 

                                                            
1 Available at http://www.cnpd.pt/bin/orientacoes/Delib_controlo_comunic.pdf



 

Thus, with the limits set and the grounds contained in Deliberation no.
1638/2013, the treatment notified under the provisions of articles 7, paragraph 2, is authorized
28, no. 1, point a), 29 and 30, no. 1, of the LPD, in the following terms:

Responsible

CONSERVAS PORTUGAL NORTE, LDA.

Goal

Management of the company's resources/Management of the productivity of the
workers of workers

Personal data category
treaties

Form of exercising the right
of access

- User identification;
- User role;
- Phone number called;
- Call type;
- Call duration;
- Communication cost;
- Address of the recipient;
- Sender's address;
- Subject of the email;
- Date and time of dispatch;
- Types of attached files;
- Start and end date and time of the connection;
 
By request In-person /
  to the person responsible in the following
address/contact: Rua Sousa Aroso, 620, Matosinhos 4450-297
Matosinhos

Data communication

interconnections

There is not

There is not

Cross-border flow to third countries None

data conservation

 6 months

The obligation to inform workers in advance must be fulfilled, in accordance with the
article 10 of the Data Protection Law, and they were also made aware of the
Internal regulations of the company regarding the use of the means for private purposes, being clear the
acceptable degree of tolerance and the existence of possible consequences of the misuse of the
means of information and communication available.

The security measures provided for in article 15 of Law no.
October, and those indicated in Deliberation no. 1638/2013, referring in particular to the creation of a
specific access profile for the purpose of the treatment under analysis.

Lisbon, 24-05-2018

The president

 

Filipa Calvão



 

