1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00299/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A., Mr. B.B.B., Mr. C.C.C., Mrs. D.D.D., Mrs. E.E.E.
(hereinafter, claimants) dated 10/08/2019, 11/21/2019, 11/21/2019,
12/03/2019 and 01/13/2020, respectively, filed claims with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The writings are directed against ING BANK N.V.,
BRANCH IN SPAIN, with NIF W0037986G (hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which they base their claims are basically that when trying to install
the ING BANK app on their mobile devices, it is mandatory to request the
access to device data, which means that the entity may have access to
data of third parties and not only their own.

SECOND: After receiving the claims, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 11/27/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and he was required so that within a month he sent to the determined Agency
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that the
claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
Similar.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the respondent replied that the data of the
claimant, said information being necessary to proceed with the analysis of the
complaint and proceed to its resolution.
 
The request was reiterated on 01/21/2020, the respondent indicated that when downloading the
application asks the client for permission to access their location; this permission does not
it is mandatory so if the download is not granted you can continue; only in
those cases in which the client wants to make use of a service that requires
knowing your location (location of an ATM) permission will be required; as soon as
to the access to the storage of the client's device it is pointed out that the wording of
this has not been done by ING but by the device's own operating system
mobile; access is required unintentionally to everything the user stores on
your device but exclusively to the password that is necessarily stored in
the device and that allows verifying the identity of the user.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

THIRD: On November 23, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, article 13 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: On May 8, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing the following:

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
ING BANK N.V., SUCURSAL EN ESPAÑA, with NIF W0037986G, for an infringement
of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a fine of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
ING BANK N.V., SUCURSAL EN ESPAÑA, with NIF W0037986G, for an infringement
of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 b) of the RGPD a fine of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

FIFTH: On May 31, 2021, arguments are presented to said proposal
resolution by the respondent stating that:

“The requested permissions are associated with functionalities offered in the application
for which they are necessary, that third-party data is not processed without the user thus
decides totally freely and unconditionally and that the information provided to
users was transparent, it was available to them prior to downloading the
application and complied with all the requirements demanded by the protection regulations
of data".

(…)

“Access to files is to facilitate user management and improve the
application experience.”

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The application of the claimed entity compulsorily requests the
access to the data of the mobile devices where it is installed, which means that the
entity may have access to third party data and does not provide the required information
in terms of data protection - article 13 RGPD - when downloading the
app.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

SECOND: The entity claimed alleges that the application does not access any
information contained in the mobile devices of its clients, unless the user
so required, either for carrying out an activity that leads to their identification
through passwords or because you carry out some management for which you want to put
disposition of the requested entity any information or document housed in its
terminal.

THIRD: On May 31, 2021, arguments are presented to the proposal
of resolution proving that the requested permits are associated with
functionalities offered in the application, not processing data from third parties without the
user so decides completely freely and unconditionally.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").
(…)”

III

Second, article 13 of the RGPD determines the information that must be
be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, establishing the
Next:
 
“Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is
obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

IV

In the present case, after studying the arguments presented, it is considered that
the conduct of the claimed party does not violate article 5 of the RGPD, which regulates the principles
related to the treatment, materialized in that the personal data that are
required to put the application into operation, after proving that it is not
necessary for the installation of the application access to personal data
stored by users on the device.

In relation to article 13 of the RGPD, through the allegations of May 31,
2021, it has been verified that the respondent duly informs the claimant about the
accesses, who are well informed about the conditions of use of the
application, explaining the need for access and its purpose.

v

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

