The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
Directorate General of the Bavarian State Archives

Deletion or archiving?
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection and the Directorate General of the
Bavarian state archives publish joint working paper

Munich, January 10, 2023

Every administrative process at a Bavarian public body is at some point
closed. Then it's about archiving - usually in a state or local authority
Archive – to decide. For archiving, data protection regulations are also
gene of importance. In this way, people who use their data in the administrative process
appear, have a right to erasure, i.e. to be “forgotten”. sometimes
such a right even applies if the process is not yet to be archived.
If personal data is involved, coordination between archive and data
data protection law required.

A working paper, the Bayerische
State Commissioner for Data Protection as data protection supervisory authority for the Bavarian
schen public sector and the General Directorate of the Bavarian State Archives
central state authority for all issues relating to archiving
have. The paper explains the relationship between data protection erasure and
archival obligation to offer. It characterizes archiving as a deletion surrogate
gat and goes - taking into account their own perspective of data protection and
chivrecht – on the question of the retention period. Further comes with the premature
Deletion of personal data in individual cases is a special problem of relationship
ses of data protection and archive law. Finally, the data protection
Legal information requirements for the archiving of documents are explained. The challenges
The requirements of a digitizing administration are consistently taken into account.

State representative Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri and Director General Dr. Bernhard Grau: “We
are pleased to present a joint working paper to the Bavarian public authorities
to be able to, which has grown out of the advisory practice of our two authorities. Simultaneously
we hope that the considerations developed in it will be used in the day-to-day administration of the Bavarian
solutions that can be implemented by public bodies as well as state and municipal archives
and can provide the necessary assistance in case of doubt."

The new working paper is available free of charge on the Internet under the following links:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/datenschutzreform2018 und
https://www.gda.bayern.de/fachinformationen/behoerdenberatung.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri
Bavarian state representative
for data protection

dr Bernhard Grau M.A.
Director General of
State Archives

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

Directorate General of the Bavarian State Archives
80539 Munich | Schönfeldstrasse 5 | Phone: +49 89 28638-2482
poststelle@gda.bayern.de | https://www.gda.bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

