

Bonn/Berlin, January 11, 2022


Press Release 1/2022


BfDI takes over the chair of the data protection conference 2022
In 2022, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) will chair the Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities (DSK). The main focus of his chairmanship will be the topic of research data. Other topics in focus include the use of artificial intelligence in security and electronic identities.



Source: Jens Gyarmaty

The BfDI, Professor Ulrich Kelber, sees many important decisions for data protection this year: The last few years have shown us, in some cases very painfully, the omissions in digitization. The pandemic has triggered an initial surge in digitization and the new federal government has undertaken many modernization projects. As data protection officers, we are ready to provide competent advice to those responsible. This applies in particular to topics of outstanding importance for the future of our society, such as the provision and use of research data in compliance with data protection regulations.
As chairman of the DSK, the BfDI will also discuss the topics of monitoring accounts, employee data protection and sovereign clouds with his colleagues.
Because of the corona pandemic, the first interim conference led by the BfDI will take place on January 27, 2022 as a virtual format. It is planned to hold the other interim conferences in Berlin in 2022. The main conferences are to take place on March 22nd and 24th and on November 23rd and 24th at the BfDI headquarters in Bonn.
The DSK consists of the independent federal and state data protection authorities. Its task is to safeguard and protect the fundamental right to informational self-determination, to achieve uniform application of European and national data protection law and to advocate its further development together.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











