

Organized by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Croatian Chamber of Crafts, on December 9, 2021, a free workshop "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation" was held in the HOK premises.
During the workshop, the experts of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data pointed out to the tradesmen their obligations and the key steps that need to be taken in order to harmonize their business with the legislative framework for the protection of personal data. The first and most important step when harmonizing with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation is informing about all obligations, which the Agency helps by holding such workshops.
"GDPR is not a burden or an obstacle, but an opportunity for craftsmen to improve their business and gain an advantage on the market over competitors who do not respect a fundamental human right - the right to data protection. It is very important that everyone who processes personal data is well informed about their obligations, harmonizes their operations and thus avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Data Protection Regulation," said director Zdravko Vukić in his welcoming speech. and wished the artisans success in their work.
In the first part of the workshop, participants were introduced to the key terms of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as who is the manager and processor, what are the legal bases for personal data processing, what is the privacy policy, and the like. Understanding the basic terms of the Regulation is essential in order for craftsmen, as data controllers, to properly process personal data.
Technical and organizational measures for the protection of personal data, why a personal data protection officer is important, but also what to do in the event of a personal data breach, are just some of the topics covered during the second part of the workshop. In addition, the Agency's experts spoke about current issues that still cause confusion, namely the processing of personal data during the COVID-19 pandemic.
This workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency as part of the ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs) project, co-financed by the EU program "Rights, Equality and Citizenship", and the project is implemented with the aim of providing support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. entrepreneurs and craftsmen when harmonizing business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.
You can find out more about the project at the link https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/.



























































