A new penalty for breaching GDPR

The National Supervisory Authority completed on 23.04.2020 an investigation at the operator Telekom Romania Communications SA and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
The operator of Telekom Romania Communications SA was fined 14,524.2 lei, the equivalent of 3,000 EUROS.
 
The investigation was started following the receipt of complaints in which the petitioner complained about the fraudulent use of his personal data when concluding contracts in his name by Telekom Romania Communications SA.
During the investigation, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator did not implement sufficient security measures to include checking the accuracy of personal data collected by telephone (remotely) for the purpose of concluding contracts.
This fact led to an illegal processing of the petitioner's data by concluding subscription contracts in his name, using the personal data from the pre-existing contract, without verifying their correctness, contrary to the obligations provided by art. 32 of the GDPR. In this sense, art. 32 provides, among other things, at para. (1) lit. b) and the obligation of the operator to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures, including the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and continued resistance of processing systems and services.
Also, the corrective measure was applied to the operator to ensure compliance with the RGPD of the operations of collection and further processing of personal data, by implementing effective procedures for the identification of persons, which would prevent the illegal processing of personal data and their unauthorized disclosure, both by the employees/collaborators of Telekom Romania Communications SA, as well as by the authorized persons and their employees/collaborators, as well as their regular training and the periodic verification of compliance with the given instructions, in relation to art. 58 para. (2) lit. d) from GDPR.

A.N.S.P.D.C.P.