1

EDPB Annual Report 2019European Data Protection Board

2019 Annual Report

WORKING TOGETHER 
FOR STRONGER RIGHTS

An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of 

key EDPB activities in 2019, is also available. 

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

1

EDPB Annual Report 20191
2

FOREWORD

MISSION STATEMENT, TASKS 
AND PRINCIPLES

2.1.
2.2.

Tasks and duties   
Guiding principles

3

4

4.1.

ABOUT THE EUROPEAN DATA 
PROTECTION BOARD

2019 - AN OVERVIEW

         4.1.1.
         4.1.2.

Functioning of the EDPB: revised rules 
of procedure
            Article 8 RoP: Observers 
            Article 10 RoP: Opinions of the Board under 
            Article 64 GDPR
            Article 22 RoP: Voting procedure
            Article 24 RoP: Written voting procedure
            Article 37 RoP: Establishing the Coordinated  
            Supervision Committee
The EDPB Secretariat 
Cooperation and consistency
            IT communications tool (IMI)

         4.1.3.
         4.1.4.
         4.1.5.

4.2.
4.3.
         4.1.3.

5

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION 
BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2019

5.1.
         5.1.1.    
         5.1.2.
 
         5.1.3.

General guidance
            Guidelines on Code of Conduct 
            Guidelines on the processing of personal data 
            in the context of online services
            Recommendation on the EDPS draft list on 
            processing operations subject to Data Protection 
            Impact Assessments (DPIAs)
            Guidelines on processing of personal data  
            through video services
            Guidelines on Data Protection by Design and 
            by Default
            Guidelines on the Right to be Forgotten
            Guidelines adopted following public consultation

         5.1.5.
   
         5.1.6.
         5.1.7.

         5.1.4.

4
5

5
6

7

8
8

8
8

9
9
9

10
10
11

12

12
13
13

13

14

14

15
15

          5.2.5.  

5.2.
          5.2.1.  

          5.2.2.

          5.2.3.

          5.2.4.

Consistency Opinions
            Opinions on the draft Data Protection Impact  
            Assessments lists (DPIAs)
            Opinion on transfers of personal data between EEA  
            and non-EEA Financial Supervisory Authorities
            Opinion on the interplay between ePrivacy 
            Directive and the GDPR
            Opinion on the competence of a Supervisory  
            Authority in case of a change in circumstances  
            relating to the main or single establishment
            Opinions on Accreditation Criteria for monitoring 
            bodies of Code of Conduct
            Opinion on Standard Contractual Clauses for 
            processors by Danish SA
            Opinions on Binding Corporate Rules
Legislative consultation
            EU-U.S. Privacy Shield
            Opinion on clinical trials Q&A
            Statement on the future ePrivacy regulation   
            Additional protocol to the Budapest Convention   
            on Cybercrime
            EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion on the eHealth Digital  
            Service Infrastructure
Other documents
            Information note on data transfers under the GDPR  
            in the event of a no-deal Brexit
            Information note on Binding Corporate
            Rules for companies which have the UK 
            Information Commissioner’s Office as BCR Lead  
            Supervisory Authorithy
            Statement on the US Foreign Account Tax 
            Compliance Act
            Statement on the use of personal data in political            
            campaigns
            LIBE Report on the implementation of the GDPR
            EDPB pleading before the CJEU in Case C-311/18 
            (Facebook Ireland and Schrems)
Plenary meetings and subgroups
Stakeholder consultations and transparency    
            Stakeholder events on future guidance
                          Interplay of PSD2 and GDPR
 

 5.6.1.1.
 

          5.2.6.

          5.2.7.
5.3.
          5.3.1.
          5.3.2.
          5.3.3.
          5.3.4.

          5.3.5.

5.4.
          5.4.1.

          5.4.2.

        

          5.4.3. 

          5.4.4.

          5.4.5.
          5.4.6.

5.5.
5.6.
          5.6.1.
 
 

15
16

16

16

16

17

17

18
18
18
19
19
19

20

20
20

20

20

21

21
22

22
23
23
23

2

      Participants
      Findings

                      5.6.1.2.
   
 5.6.1.3.
         5.6.2.
         5.6.3.
                      5.6.3.1.
                      5.6.3.2.
                      5.6.3.3.
         5.6.4.
5.7.
         5.7.1.      

                           Concepts of controller and processor
                           Data subject rights
            Public consultations on draft guidance
            Stakeholder survey on adopted guidance
 
 
                           Conclusions
            Transparency and access to documents
External representation of the Board
            Participation of Chair and Deputy Chair in  
            conferences and speaking engagements
  
 
            Participation of the EDPB Members in conferences    
            and speaking engagements
            Participation of the EDPB Secretariat Staff in 
            conferences and speaking engagements
            Election of representative and substitute to the 
            Stakeholders Cybersecurity Certification Group

      Chair of the EDPB
      Deputy Chair of the EDPB

    
 
         5.7.2.

 5.7.1.1.
 5.7.1.2.

         5.7.4.

         5.7.3.

23
24
24
25
25
25
26
26
26
26

26
27
27

27

27

6

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
ACTIVITIES IN 2019

28

6.1.
         6.1.1.

         6.1.2.

         6.1.3.
         6.1.4.
         6.1.5.
6.2
         6.2.1.

Cross-border cooperation
            Preliminary procedure to identify the Lead and 
            Concerned Supervisory Authorities
            Database regarding cases with cross-border  
            component 
            One-Stop-Shop Mechanism
            Mutual assistance 
            Joint operations 
National cases
            Some relevant national cases with exercise of 
            corrective powers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

      Austria
      Belgium
      Denmark
      Finland
      France
      Germany
      Greece

 6.2.1.1.
 6.2.1.2.
 6.2.1.3.
 6.2.1.4.
 6.2.1.5.
 6.2.1.6.
 6.2.1.7.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

28
28

29

29
30
31
31
31

31
31
32
32
32
33
33

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3

7

8

 6.2.1.8.
 6.2.1.9.
 6.2.1.10.
 6.2.1.11.
 6.2.1.12.
 6.2.1.13.
 6.2.1.14.
 6.2.1.15.
 6.2.1.16.
 6.2.1.17.
 6.2.1.18.

 
      Hungary
 
      Italy
 
      Latvia
 
      Lithuania
 
      Malta
 
      Norway
 
      Poland
 
      Romania
 
      Spain
 
      Sweden
 
      United Kingdom
SA survey on budget and staff

COORDINATED SUPERVISION
COMMITTEE OF THE LARGE-
SCALE EU INFORMATION 
SYSTEMS AND OF EU BODIES, 
OFFICES AND AGENCIES

MAIN OBJECTIVES FOR 2020

8.1.
         8.1.1.
         8.1.2.
         8.1.3.
8.2.

Legal work plan
               Guidance 
               Advisory role to the European Commission
               Consistency findings
Communications

9

9.1.
9.2.
9.3. 
9.4.
9.5.
9.6.

ANNEXES

General guidance adopted in 2019
Consistency Opinions adopted in 2019
Joint Opinions adopted in 2019
Legislative consultation
Other documents
List of expert subgroups with scope of mandate

34
34
34
34
35
35
35
35
36
36
37
37

38

40
40
40
40
41
41

42
42
42
43
43
43
44

3

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019     Foreword

The European Data Protection Board’s (EDPB) mission is to 
ensure  the  consistent  application  of  data  protection  rules 
across the European Economic Area (EEA). This is enshrined 
in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has 
opened  the  door  to  a  new  era  of  respect  for  data  subject 
rights. 

The GDPR is not just valuable insofar as it has established 
a  harmonised  legal  framework  for  data  protection  across 
the  EEA  –  one  that  has  expanded  and  strengthened 
national  data  protection  authorities’  powers.  The  GDPR’s 
entry into force has also encouraged greater awareness of 
data protection rights among individuals and organizations 
alike. This is more important than ever, given the increasing 
presence  of  data-dependent  technologies  in  almost  every 
facet of our lives. 

As  we  approach  the  two-year  anniversary  of  the  GDPR’s 
entry into application, I am convinced that the cooperation 
between EEA DPAs will result in the emergence of a common 
data  protection  culture.  Some  challenges  remain,  but  the 
EDPB  is  working  on  solutions  to  overcome  these  and  to 
make sure that the key cooperation procedure concepts are 
applied consistently.

As the EDPB, we contribute to the consistent interpretation 
of the GDPR by adopting Guidelines and Opinions. In 2019, 

we adopted five new Guidelines on topics such as privacy by 
design and default, and the right to be forgotten, as well as 
two Guidelines in their final, post-consultation versions. We 
also adopted 16 Consistency Opinions covering, among other 
topics,  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessments,  accreditation 
requirements for code of conduct monitoring bodies, and the 
interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR.

This  was  possible  thanks  to  the  consistent  efforts  of  all 
actors within the EDPB, as well as the increased input and 
engagement  from  our  stakeholders  via  events,  workshops 
and surveys. 

As  we  look  forward  to  the  coming  year,  we  feel  ready 
to  tackle  the  outstanding  items  in  our  two-year  working 
programme. We will continue to adopt guidance, to promote 
the cooperation on cross-border enforcement, and to advise 
the EU legislator on data protection issues.

More and more countries outside the EU are adopting data 
protection  legislation.  In  doing  so,  they  often  base  their 
legislation on the fundamental principles of the GDPR. I am 
confident  that,  in  a  not  too  distant  future,  we  will  see  the 
protection  of  data  subject  rights  become  a  global  norm. 
This will lay the foundation for more secure data flows and 
increased transparency, as well as improved trust in the rule 
of law.

Andrea Jelinek
Chair of the European Data Protection Board

4

EDPB Annual Report 2019• 

• 

• 

Transparency. The EDPB carries out its work as openly 
as  possible,  so  as  to  be  more  effective  and  more  ac-
countable to the public. The EDPB strives to explain its 
activities using clear language that is accessible to all.
Efficiency and modernisation. The EDPB makes every 
effort to ensure that its work is as efficient and as flex-
ible as possible, in order to achieve the highest level of 
cooperation between its members. The EDPB does this 
by using new technologies to keep working methods up 
to date, minimise formalities, and provide efficient ad-
ministrative support.
Proactivity.  The  EDPB  undertakes  its  own  initiatives, 
in order to anticipate and support innovative solutions 
that will help overcome digital challenges to data pro-
tection.  The  EDPB  encourages  the  effective  participa-
tion  of  stakeholders  (whether  members,  observers, 
staff or invited experts), so that their needs and aspira-
tions can be fully taken into account.

2.2. GUIDING PRINCIPLES
• 

Independence and impartiality. The EDPB is an inde-
pendent body, which performs its tasks and exercises 
its powers impartially. 
Good governance, integrity and good administrative 
behaviour. The EDPB acts in the public interest as an 
expert, trustworthy and authoritative body in the field 
of data protection, with good decision-making process-
es and sound financial management. 
Collegiality and inclusiveness. The EDPB is organised 
and  acts  collectively  as  a  collegiate  body,  as  estab-
lished by the provisions of the GDPR and the European 
Law Enforcement Directive. 
Cooperation.  The  EDPB  promotes  cooperation  be-
tween  SAs  and  endeavours  to  operate  by  consensus 
wherever possible, holding the GDPR and the European 
Law Enforcement Directive as an overarching reference. 

• 

• 

• 

Mission statement, 
tasks and principles

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) aims to ensure the 

consistent application of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
and of the European Law Enforcement Directive across the European 

Economic Area (EEA).

The  EDPB  can  adopt  general  guidance  to  further  clarify 
European  data  protection 
laws,  giving  stakeholders, 
including  individuals,  a  consistent  interpretation  of  their 
rights  and  obligations  as  well  as  providing  Supervisory 
Authorities (SAs) with a benchmark for enforcing the GDPR. 

The EDPB is also empowered to issue Opinions or Decisions 
(more  precisely, 
‘Consistency 
Decisions’)  to  guarantee  a  consistent  application  of  the 
GDPR by SAs across the EEA. 

‘Consistency  Opinions’  or 

The EDPB acts in accordance with its rules of procedure and 
guiding principles.

2.1. TASKS AND DUTIES
• 

The EDPB provides general guidance (including guide-
lines,  recommendations  and  best  practices)  to  clarify 
the law. 
The  EDPB  issues  Consistency  Opinions  or  Decisions 
to guarantee the consistent application of the GDPR by 
the EEA SAs. 
The EDPB promotes cooperation and the effective ex-
change of information and best practices between na-
tional SAs. 
The EDPB advises the European Commission on any is-
sue related to the protection of personal data and new 
proposed legislation in the European Union. 

• 

• 

• 

5

6

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019About the European 
Data Protection Board

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent European 
body, which contributes to the consistent application of data protection 

rules throughout the European Economic Area (EEA) and promotes 

cooperation between the EEA Supervisory Authorities (SAs).

The EDPB is composed of representatives of the SAs and the 
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS). The SAs of the 
EEA EFTA (European Free Trade Association) States (Iceland, 
Liechtenstein and Norway) are also members with regard to 
GDPR-related  matters,  although  they  do  not  hold  the  right 
to vote, nor can they be elected as Chair or Deputy Chair of 
the EDPB.

The  EDPB  was  established  by  the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR).  The  European  Commission  and  –  with 
regard  to  GDPR-related  matters  –  the  EFTA  Surveillance 
Authority have the right to participate in the activities and 
meetings of the EDPB without voting rights. 

The  EDPB  has  a  Secretariat  (the  EDPB  Secretariat),  which 
is provided by the EDPS. A Memorandum of Understanding 
determines the terms of cooperation between the EDPB and 
the EDPS.

7

EDPB Annual Report 2019The adopted changes ensure that all EDPB members will be 
informed  whether  an  SA  intends  to  maintain  or  amend  its 
draft decision following the EDPB’s Opinion.

the EDPB. According to the new text, at least three entitled-
to-vote EDPB members are needed to request a suspension 
of the written procedure decided by the Chair of the EDPB.

In  addition,  the  EDPB  Secretariat,  the  rapporteurs  and  the 
expert  subgroup  members  who  prepared  the  Opinion  will 
inform  the  EDPB  members  and  the  European  Commission 
about  how,  in  their  view,  the  SA’s  amended  decision  takes 
into account the EDPB’s Opinion. This provides both the EEA 
SAs and the EDPB with valuable feedback and enables them 
to exercise their rights under Article 65.1.c GDPR. 

The  revised  article  also  encompasses  any  situation  where 
an SA indicates to the EDPB Chair that it will not follow the 
Opinion of the EDPB, whether in part or as a whole. In this 
case, the RoP enable the Chair and the Deputy Chairs of the 
EDPB  to  refer  the  matter  to  the  EDPB  under  Article  65.1.c 
GDPR. This does not, however, affect the right of any other 
concerned SA, of the European Commission or of the EFTA 
Surveillance Authority to refer the matter to the EDPB for an 
Article 65 GDPR decision procedure.

Finally, the revised article makes clear that the EDPB will not 
adopt any Opinion or any other position in the context of the 
same  Article  64  GDPR  procedure,  e.g.  to  confirm  that  the 
amended draft decision is in line with the adopted Opinion. 

Article 22 RoP: Voting procedure

4.1.3.  
In  the  updated  version  of  the  RoP,  the  EDPB  clarified  the 
voting procedures relating to its plenary meetings. 

In  particular,  all  votes  on  the  final  adoption  of  documents 
should be counted from the total number of EDPB members 
entitled to vote, regardless of whether they are present for 
the actual vote or not. 

Article 24 RoP: Written voting procedure

4.1.4.  
Revised  Article  24  RoP  raised  the  threshold  necessary  for 
the suspension of written procedures decided by the Chair of 

In addition, the Chair of the EDPB will be able to suspend the 
written  procedure  decided  by  the  EDPB  upon  the  request 
of  one  EDPB  member  only  if  new  circumstances  that  may 
substantially affect the outcome of the procedure arise.

The EDPB updated Rules 
of Procedure establish a 
Coordinated Supervision 
Committee and clarify the 
role of observers and voting 
procedures.

Article 37 RoP: Establishing the Coordinated 

4.1.5.  
Supervision Committee
In  October  2018,  Regulation  2018/1725  on  the  protection 
of  personal  data  processed  by  the  EU  institutions  and 
bodies  was  adopted.  In  accordance  with  Article  62  of  this 
regulation, the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) 
and  the  national  SAs  shall  cooperate  actively  to  ensure 
effective supervision of large-scale IT systems and of Union 
bodies,  offices  and  agencies.  As  a  result,  the  Coordinated 
Supervision Committee was created.

Consequently,  the  EDPB’s  RoP  were  amended  to  include  a 
new Article 37, which formally establishes the Coordinated 
Supervision  Committee  within  the  EDPB.  This  Committee 
includes  representatives  from  national  SAs,  the  EDPS,  and 
the SAs of non-EU Schengen Member States, when foreseen 
under  EU  law.  The  Rules  of  Procedure  make  clear  that  the 
participation  in  the  Committee  may  differ  from  the  EDPB’s 
membership and participation. (For more information on the 
Committee, see Section 7.)

2019 – an overview

FUNCTIONING OF THE EDPB: REVISED RULES 
OF PROCEDURE

4.1.  
 
The Rules of Procedure (RoP) were adopted during the first 
plenary meeting of the EDPB on 25 May 2018. These outline 
the EDPB’s most important operational rules, describing: 
• 
• 
• 
• 

The EDPB’s guiding principles;
The organisation of the EDPB;
The cooperation between the EDPB members;
The election of the Chair and the Deputy Chair of the 
EDPB;
The EDPB’s working methods. 

• 

In 2019, the EDPB adopted revised wording for Articles 8, 10, 
22 and 24 of its RoP. The EDPB also adopted a new Article 37 
RoP establishing a Coordinated Supervision Committee in the 

context of data processing by large information systems in use 
within the EU institutions, as well as by EU bodies, offices and 
agencies.

Article 8 RoP: Observers

4.1.1.  
Article 8 RoP outlines the possibility for the EDPB to have 
observers.  In  2019,  new  wording  was  adopted  to  clarify 
the  requirements  for  a  non-EU  country’s  data  protection 
authority to be granted observer status. 

Article 10 RoP: Opinions of the Board under 

4.1.2.  
Article 64 GDPR
The  revision  of  Article  10  RoP  clarified  the  procedure  that 
follows the adoption of a Consistency Opinion under Article 
64 GDPR. 

8

9

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019support  to  some  types  of  national  cooperation  taking 
place before any formal involvement of the EDPB. This will 
be  applicable  for  the  cooperation  between  SAs  in  case  a 
competent  SA  prepares  Binding  Corporate  Rules  (BCR), 
Codes of Conduct or Certification Criteria. 

The EDPB, upon the initiative of the EDPS, has also launched 
a secondment programme enabling staff exchanges between 
the EEA SAs and the EDPS, including the EDPB Secretariat.

IT communications tool (IMI)

4.3.1.  
The  EDPB  promotes  the  cooperation  between  EEA  SAs 
by  providing  a  robust  IT  system.  Since  25  May  2018,  the 
SAs  have  been  using  the  Internal  Market  Information  (IMI) 
system  to  exchange  information  necessary  for  the  GDPR 
cooperation  and  consistency  mechanism  in  a  standardised 
and secured way. 

IMI  is  a  system  developed  by  the  European  Commission’s 
Directorate  General 
Industry, 
Entrepreneurship and SMEs (DG GROW). It was adapted to 
cater for the needs of the GDPR, in close cooperation with 
the EDPB Secretariat and the SAs. Upon its adoption, IMI has 

Internal  Market, 

for 

immediately proved to be an asset for SAs, which have since 
accessed and used the system on an almost daily basis.

To  ensure  that  the  IMI  system  is  adapted  to  the  changing 
needs of SAs, the EDPB created a dedicated expert subgroup 
which  discusses  and  validates  any  necessary  changes  (i.e. 
a  new  workflow  for  the  EDPB  written  procedure,  available 
reports 
for  different  procedures,  change  of  bilateral 
workflow of the information mutual assistance request into 
multilateral  etc.).  Additionally,  the  EDPB  IMI  Helpdesk  has 
been  created  within  the  EDPB  Secretariat,  with  dedicated 
staff providing day-to-day assistance to users.

Since  the  entry  into  application  of  the  GDPR  until  the  end  of 
2019, 807 cases were registered in the IMI system by the EEA 
SAs. From the case register, different procedures were initiated:
• 
Identification of the Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) 
and  Concerned  Supervisory  Authorities  (CSA):  1,346 
procedures. 

•  Mutual  Assistance  Procedures:  115  formal  procedures 

• 

and 2427 informal procedures.
OSS:  142  draft  decisions,  out  of  which  79  resulted  in 
final decisions.

Article  37  RoP  takes  a  horizontal  and  flexible  approach 
to  ensure  consistent  application  and  structure  for  the 
coordinated supervision of various EU information systems.
The  article  establishes 
the  Committee  functions 
autonomously with respect to the EDPB’s activities, adhering to 
its own rules of procedure and working methods. The Secretariat 
of the Committee is provided by the EDPB Secretariat.

that 

Article 37 RoP also requires the Committee to meet at least 
twice  a  year  and  to  submit  a  joint  report  on  coordinated 
supervision  activities  to  the  European  Parliament,  the 
European Council and the European Commission.

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

4.2.  
The EDPB Secretariat ensures that all of the EDPB’s activities 
comply  with  the  legal  framework  applicable  to  the  EDPB 
as  an  EU  body  and  with  its  RoP.  It  is  the  main  drafter  for 
Consistency  Opinions  and  Decisions,  and  serves  as  an 
institutional memory, ensuring documents’ consistency over 
time. The role of the EDPB Secretariat is also to facilitate the 
EDPB’s  fair  and  effective  decision-making  and  to  act  as  a 
gateway for clear and consistent communication.

As outlined in the GDPR, the EDPB Secretariat is provided by 
the EDPS, which is a member of the EDPB, and is required to 
perform all its tasks exclusively under the instructions of the 
Chair of the EDPB. The EDPB Secretariat deals with a range 
of  tasks,  from  drafting  legal  documents  to  handling  media 
relations and organizing meetings. 

As  part  of  its  support  activities,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  has 
developed  IT  solutions  to  enable  effective  and  secure 
communication  between  the  EDPB  members,  including  the 
Internal  Market  Information  System  (IMI).  It  has  also  set 
up  a  network  of  communications  officers  within  the  SAs, 
to develop and implement shared communication on EDPB 
news, information campaigns and communication tools.

Finally,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  assists  the  Chair  in  preparing 
for and presiding over the plenary meetings, as well with her 
speaking engagements.  

COOPERATION AND CONSISTENCY

4.3.  
Under  the  GDPR,  EEA  Member  States’  SAs  cooperate 
closely to ensure that individuals’ data protection rights are 
protected consistently across the EEA. One task is to assist 
one another and coordinate decision-making in cross-border 
data protection cases. 

Via the so-called cooperation and consistency mechanism, the 
EDPB  issues  Consistency  Opinions  or  Decisions.  In  2019,  the 
EDPB  adopted  several  Opinions  and  Guidelines  (outlined  in 
Section 5 of this report) to clarify fundamental provisions of the 
GDPR and to ensure consistency in its application among SAs.

The  EDPB  can  also 
legally  binding  Consistency 
Decisions, for instance aiming to arbitrate if and when national 
SAs take different positions in cross-border cases.

issue 

SAs  identified  certain  challenges  when  implementing  the 
cooperation  and  consistency  mechanism.  In  particular,  the 
patchwork of national procedural laws was found to have an 
impact on the cooperation mechanism, due to differences in 
complaint handling procedures, position of the parties in the 
proceedings,  admissibility  criteria,  duration  of  proceedings, 
deadlines, etc.

In  addition,  SAs’  effective  application  of  the  powers  and 
tasks attributed to them by the GDPR depends largely on the 
resources  they  have  available.  This  applies  in  particular  to 
the One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism, the success of which 
is  contingent  on  the  time  and  effort  SAs  can  dedicate  to 
individual cases and cooperation.

Despite  these  challenges,  the  EDPB  is  convinced  that  the 
cooperation  between  SAs  will  result  in  a  common  data 
protection culture and consistent monitoring practices. One 
single set of rules has proved to be advantageous for data 
controllers  and  processors  within  the  EEA,  having  brought 
greater legal certainty. It has also benefitted individuals who 
have seen their data subject rights reinforced. 

The EDPB also promotes the cooperation between the EEA 
SAs  in  their  task.  The  EDPB  Secretariat  provides  logistical 

10

11

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019of  circumstances,  namely  during  the  provision  of  online 
services,  through  video  devices,  on  the  principles  of  Data 
Protection by Design & Default, and related to the Right to 
be Forgotten by search engines.

Three  Guidelines  adopted 
in  2018  were  approved  by 
the  EDPB  in  their  final  form  in  2019,  following  public 
consultations.  These  Guidelines  clarify  accreditation  and 
certification criteria and the territorial scope outlined in the 
GDPR.

Guidance provides 
stakeholders with a 
consistent interpretation of 
their rights and obligations.

The  EDPB  also  issued  a  recommendation  on  the  draft  list 
submitted  by  the  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor 
(EDPS)  on  processing  operations  which  require  a  Data 
Protection Impact Assessment.

Guidelines on Codes of Conduct 

5.1.1. 
During its seventh plenary meeting on 12 February 2019, the 
EDPB  adopted  the  Guidelines  1/2019  on  Codes  of  Conduct 
and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 2016/679. 

The aim of these Guidelines is to provide practical guidance 
and  interpretative  assistance  in  relation  to  the  application 
of  Articles  40  and  41  of  the  GDPR.  They  clarify  the 
procedures  and  rules  involved  in  the  submission,  approval 
and  publication  of  codes  of  conduct  at  both  national  and 
European level. 

These  Guidelines  should  provide  all  competent  SAs,  the 
EDPB  and  the  European  Commission  with  a  clear  framework 
to  evaluate  codes  of  conduct  in  a  consistent  manner  and  to 
streamline the procedures involved in the assessment process. 

A public consultation was launched following the adoption of 
the document. The final version of the Guidelines, including 
further points of clarification, was adopted on 4 June 2019.

Guidelines on the processing of personal data 
in the context of online services 

5.1.2. 
 
On 9 and 10 April 2019, the EDPB met for its ninth plenary 
session.  During  this  meeting,  the  EDPB  adopted  the 
Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under 
Article  6.1.b  of  the  GDPR  in  the  context  of  the  provision 
of  online  services  to  data  subjects.  These  Guidelines  aim 
to  clarify  the  scope  and  application  of  Article  6.1.b  GDPR 
on  lawfulness  of  processing,  in  the  context  of  information 
society services.

The  Guidelines  make  general  observations  regarding  data 
protection  principles  and  the  interaction  of  Article  6.1.b 
GDPR  with  other  lawful  bases.  In  addition,  they  contain 
guidance  on  the  applicability  of  Article  6.1.b  GDPR  in  the 
context of bundling of separate services and termination of 
contract.

The document was subject to a public consultation. The final 
version of the Guidelines was adopted on 8 October 2019.

Recommendation on the EDPS draft list on  
processing operations subject to Data 
Protection Impact Assessments (DPIAs)

5.1.3. 
 
 
During its twelfth plenary meeting held on 9 and 10 July 2019, 
the EDPB adopted the Recommendation 1/2019 on the draft 
list of the EDPS regarding the processing operations subject 
to the requirement of a Data Protection Impact Assessment.

Article  39.4  of  Regulation  2018/1725  requires  the  EDPS  to 
establish  and  make  public  a  list  of  the  kind  of  processing 
operations which require a DPIA, with the goal of informing 
data controllers.

The EDPS has to consult with the EDPB prior to adoption of 

European Data Protection 
Board activities in 2019

The EDPB aims to ensure the consistent application of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) and of the European Law Enforcement 

Directive across the European Economic Area (EEA).

laws.  This  provides 

The  EDPB  can  adopt  general  guidance  to  clarify  European 
data  protection 
the  public  and 
stakeholders with a consistent interpretation of their rights 
and  obligations,  and  ensures  that  Supervisory  Authorities 
(SAs) have a benchmark for enforcing the GDPR. 

The  EDPB  is  also  empowered  to  issue  Opinions  or  Binding 
Decisions  to  guarantee  the  consistent  application  of  the 
GDPR by national SAs. 

GENERAL GUIDANCE 

5.1. 
In  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  five  new  Guidelines  aimed  at 
clarifying  the  range  of  provisions  under  the  GDPR.  Three 
were  adopted  in  2019  and  finalised  in  the  same  year, 
following a public consultation. Two Guidelines were adopted 
in 2019 and subsequently submitted to public consultation. 
These had not yet been finalised by the end of 2019. 

The  adopted  Guidelines  addressed  codes  of  conduct  and 
monitoring bodies at a national and European level, as well 
as clarifying the processing of personal data under a range 

12

13

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019these  lists,  since  they  refer  to  processing  operations  by  a 
controller  acting  jointly  with  one  or  more  controllers  other 
than EU institutions and bodies. 

In its Recommendation, the EDPB invited the EDPS to amend 
certain wording and examples around sensitive data, large-
scale  data  processing,  combined  datasets,  and  vulnerable 
data subjects.

Guidelines on processing of personal data 
through video devices

5.1.4. 
 
During  its  July  plenary  meeting,  the  EDPB  also  adopted  the 
Guidelines  3/2019  on  processing  of  personal  data  through 
video devices.

The Guidelines clarify how the GDPR applies to the processing 
of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  video  surveillance,  and 
cover both traditional video devices and smart video devices. 
For the latter, the Guidelines focus on the rules regarding the 
processing of special categories of data. 

Other areas covered by the Guidelines include the lawfulness 
of processing, the applicability of the household exemption, 
and the disclosure of footage to third parties. 

The  Guidelines  were  subject  to  a  public  consultation,  which 
closed on 9 September 2019. A final version of the document 
was adopted by the EDPB in early 2020, taking into account 
input from the consultation.

Guidelines on Data Protection by Design and by 
Default 

5.1.5. 
 
During its fifteenth plenary meeting on 13 November 2019, 
the EDPB adopted the Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data 
Protection by Design and by Default. 

The Guidelines focus on the obligation of Data Protection by 
Design and by Default as set forth in Article 25 GDPR. This 
requires  that  controllers  implement  appropriate  technical 
and  organisational  measures,  as  well  as  the  necessary 
safeguards,  to  establish  data  protection  principles  and  to 
protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects. Controllers 
must  also  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  the  implemented 
measures are effective. 

In 2019, the EDPB adopted 
Guidelines concerning Codes 
of Conduct, data processing 
in the context of online 
services and through video 
devices, Data Protection by 
Design and by Default, and 
the Right to be Forgotten.

The  Guidelines  cover  elements  that  controllers  must  take 
into  account  when  designing  the  processing,  such  as  the 
cost  of  setting  up  and  maintaining  up-to-date  technology, 
in  addition  to  the  nature,  scope,  context,  and  purpose  of 
the  processing  itself.  The  Guidelines  also  contain  practical 
guidance  on  how  to  effectively  implement  data  protection 
principles, listing key design and default elements as well as 
illustrating practical cases.

The  Guidelines  were  submitted  for  public  consultation, 
which remained open until 16 January 2020. A final version 
of the document will be adopted by the EDPB later in 2020, 
taking this consultation into account.

14

Guidelines on the Right to be Forgotten 

5.1.6. 
During its sixteenth plenary meeting on 2 December 2019, 
the EDPB adopted the first part of the Guidelines 5/2019 on 
the criteria of the Right to be Forgotten in the search engines 
cases under the GDPR.

The Guidelines provide an interpretation of Article 17 GDPR, 
which  outlines  the  “Right  to  request  delisting”.  Following 
the  Costeja  vs.  Google  Spain  judgment  of  the  Court  of 
Justice of the European Union (CJEU) of 13 May 2014, which 
established  this  right,  a  data  subject  may  request  that  a 
search  engine  provider  erase  webpage  links  redirecting  to 
his or her personal data.

The Guidelines seek to establish the grounds and exceptions 
for delisting requests made to search engine providers.

To gather feedback on the Guidelines, the EDPB launched a 
public consultation, open until 5 February 2020. 

Guidelines adopted following public 
consultation 

5.1.7. 
 
In  2019,  the  EDPB  approved  a  final  version  of  three 
Guidelines already adopted in draft form in 2018.
• 

and 

on  Certification 

Guidelines 
Identifying 
Certification  Criteria:  On  23  January  2019,  the  EDPB 
adopted the final version of the core text of Guidelines 
1/2018  on  certification  and  identifying  certification 
criteria  in  accordance  with  Articles  42  and  43  of  the 
GDPR,  taking  into  account  the  contributions  received 
during a public consultation. The primary aim of these 
Guidelines is to identify relevant criteria for certification 
mechanisms,  which  can  be  used  by  organisations  to 
demonstrate compliance with the GDPR. 
On  the  same  day,  the  Annex  on  the  Guidelines  on 
Certification  and  Identifying  Certification  Criteria 
was  adopted  and  submitted  for  public  consultation. 
The  Annex  identifies  topics  that  SAs  and  the  EDPB 
will consider and apply for the approval of certification 
criteria  for  a  certification  mechanism.  The  entire 
Guidelines,  including  a  corrigendum  and  the  Annex, 

• 

• 

• 

were finalised in June 2019.
Guidelines  on  Accreditation  and  Certification 
Bodies: These Guidelines were adopted on 6 February 
2018. The core text was finalised on 4 December 2018. 
On  the  same  day,  Annex  1  was  adopted.  The  entire 
Guidelines,  including  Annex  1,  were  adopted  in  their 
final form in June 2019. 
Guidelines  on  Territorial  Scope:  On  12  November 
2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  the  final  version  of  the 
Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR 
(Article  3),  following  a  public  consultation.  These 
Guidelines assess whether a particular data processing 
operation falls within the territorial scope of the GDPR 
and clarify the application of the Regulation in various 
situations,  for  example,  when  the  data  controller  or 
processor is established outside the EEA. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS

5.2. 
National  SAs  from  EEA  countries  must  request  an  Opinion 
from  the  EDPB  before  adopting  any  decision  on  subjects 
specified by the GDPR as having cross-border implications. 
This applies when a national SA: 
• 

intends to adopt a list of the processing operations sub-
ject to the requirement for a Data Protection Impact As-
sessment (DPIA); 
intends to adopt a draft code of conduct relating to pro-
cessing activities; 
aims to approve the criteria for accreditation of a certi-
fication body; 
aims to adopt standard data protection clauses or con-
tractual clauses; 
aims to approve binding corporate rules. 

• 

• 

• 

• 

The competent SA has to take utmost account of the Opinion. 
In addition, any SA, the Chair of the EDPB or the Commission 
may request that any matter of general application or which 
has  consequences  for  more  than  one  Member  State  be 
examined by the EDPB with a view to obtaining an Opinion. 
This can also apply in cases where a competent SA does not 
comply  with  obligations  for  mutual  assistance  or  for  joint 
operations. 

15

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019The  aim  of  these  Opinions  is  to  guarantee  the  consistent 
application of the GDPR by national SAs.

Opinions on the draft Data Protection Impact 
Assessment lists (DPIAs)

5.2.1.  
 
In  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  five  Opinions  on  the  draft 
lists  submitted  by  national  SAs  on  processing  operations 
which  require  a  DPIA,  namely  those  submitted  by  SAs  in 
Liechtenstein, Norway, Spain, Iceland, and Cyprus. 

lists  form  an 

important  tool  for  the  consistent 
These 
application of the GDPR across the EEA. DPIA is a process 
that helps to identify and mitigate data protection risks that 
may affect the rights and freedoms of individuals. 

While in general the data controller must assess if a DPIA is 
required before engaging in the processing activity, national 
SAs must establish and list the kind of processing operations 
for which a DPIA is required. 

These  Opinions 
follow  the  26  DPIA-related  Opinions 
adopted by the EDPB in 2018, and will further contribute to 
establishing common criteria for assessing where DPIAs are 
required.

In addition, the EDPB also issued three Opinions on the draft 
lists  submitted  by  SAs  in  the  Czech  Republic,  Spain  and 
France  on  the  processing  operations  exempt  from  a  DPIA. 
Contrary to the “black lists”, the adoption of “white lists” of 
DPIAs are not mandatory for EEA SAs.

EEA and non-EEA Financial Supervisory 
Authorities

5.2.2.   Opinion on transfers of personal data between 
 
 
During its seventh plenary meeting on 12 February 2019, the 
EDPB  adopted  Opinion  4/2019  on  the  draft  Administrative 
Arrangement  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  between 
European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  Financial  Supervisory 
Authorities and non-EEA Financial Supervisory Authorities.

The Administrative Arrangement is based on Article 46.3.b 
GDPR  and  outlines  rules  and  commitments  for  transfers 

of  personal  data  between  EEA  Financial  Supervisory 
Authorities,  including  the  European  Securities  and  Markets 
Authority (ESMA), and their non-EEA counterparts.

Following the Opinion, this arrangement will be submitted to 
the  competent  SAs  for  authorisation  at  national  level.  The 
EDPB  recommends  that  the  SAs  monitor  the  arrangement 
and  its  practical  application  to  ensure  that  data  subject 
rights and appropriate means of redress and supervision are 
effective and enforceable in practice.

ePrivacy  Directive and the GDPR

5.2.3.   Opinion on the interplay between the 
 
During its eighth plenary meeting on 13 and 14 March 2019, 
the EDPB adopted Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between 
the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding 
the  competence,  tasks  and  powers  of  data  protection 
authorities. 

The Opinion seeks to clarify whether the processing of personal 
data falls under the scope of both the GDPR and the ePrivacy 
Directive, and whether this limits the competences, tasks and 
powers of data protection authorities under the GDPR. 

The  EDPB  is  of  the  opinion  that  SAs  are  competent  to 
enforce the GDPR. The fact that a subset of the processing 
falls within the scope of the ePrivacy Directive does not limit 
the competence of SAs under the GDPR.

Indeed, an infringement of the GDPR may at the same time 
constitute  an  infringement  of  national  ePrivacy  rules.  SAs 
may  take  this  into  consideration  when  applying  the  GDPR 
(e.g.  when  assessing  compliance  with  the  lawfulness  or 
fairness principles).  

Authority in case of a change in circumstances 
relating to the main or single establishment

5.2.4.   Opinion on the competence of a Supervisory 
 
 
During  its  twelfth  plenary  meeting  on  9  and  10  July  2019, 
the EDPB adopted Opinion 8/2019 on the competence of a 
Supervisory Authority in case of a change in circumstances 
relating to the main or single establishment.

16

(SCCs)  aim 

Standard  Contractual  Clauses 
to  help 
organisations  meet  the  requirements  of  Article  28.3  and 
28.4 GDPR, given that the contract between controller and 
processor cannot simply restate the provisions of the GDPR 
but  should  further  specify  them,  e.g.  with  regard  to  the 
assistance provided by the processor to the controller. 

National SAs from EEA 
countries must request an 
Opinion from the EDPB 
before adopting any decision 
on subjects specified by the 
GDPR as having cross-border 
implications.

The EDPB made several recommendations which were taken 
into account by the Danish SA, which subsequently updated 
the draft SCCs.

The  possibility  of  using  SCCs  adopted  by  an  SA  does  not 
prevent the parties from adding other clauses or additional 
safeguards, provided that they do not , directly or indirectly 
contradict  the  adopted  clauses  or  prejudice  data  subjects’ 
fundamental rights or freedoms.

The  scenario  outlined  in  the  Opinion  may  occur  when 
the  main  establishment  is  relocated  within  the  EEA,  or 
is  moved  to  the  EEA  from  a  third  country,  or  when  there 
no  longer  is  a  main  or  single  establishment  in  the  EEA.  In 
such  circumstances,  the  EDPB  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
competence  of  the  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  can 
switch to another SA. 

In  this  case,  the  cooperation  procedure  set  forth  under 
Article 60 GDPR will continue to apply and the new LSA will 
be  obligated  to  cooperate  with  the  former  LSA,  as  well  as 
the other concerned SAs (CSAs), to reach a consensus. The 
switch can take place as long as no final decision has been 
reached by the competent SA.

5.2.5.   Opinions on Accreditation Criteria for 
 
monitoring bodies of Codes of Conduct
During  its  July  plenary  meeting,  the  EDPB  also  adopted 
Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian data protection supervisory 
authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to Article 41 GDPR. The 
EDPB agreed that all codes covering non-public authorities 
and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies in accordance with the GDPR.

In  addition,  during  its  sixteenth  plenary  meeting  on  2  and 
3  December  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  Opinion  17/2019 
on  the  UK  data  protection  supervisory  authority  draft 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring 
body  pursuant  to  Article  41  GDPR.  In  this  Opinion,  the 
EDPB  proposed  some  changes  to  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements in order to ensure consistent application of the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies.

processors by Danish SA 

5.2.6.   Opinion on Standard Contractual Clauses for 
 
In  July,  the  EDPB  adopted  Opinion  14/2019  on  the  draft 
Standard  Contractual  Clauses  (SCCs)  submitted  by  the  DK 
SA  (Article  28.8  GDPR).  As  the  first  Opinion  on  this  topic, 
it aims to ensure the consistent application of Article 28.8 
GDPR for contracts between controller and processor. 

17

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Nevertheless, the clauses are an instrument to be used ‘as 
is’, i.e. the parties who enter into a contract with a modified 
version of the clauses are not considered to have used the 
adopted SCCs. 

In  2019,  the  EDPB  issued  an  Opinion  on  the  interplay 
between the Clinical Trials Regulation (CTR) and the GDPR, 
requested  by  the  European  Commission’s  Directorate-
General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE).

Opinions on Binding Corporate Rules

5.2.7.  
During  its  fourteenth  plenary  meeting  on  8  and  9  October 
2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  Opinion  15/2019  on  the  draft 
decision  of  the  competent  Supervisory  Authority  of  the 
United  Kingdom  regarding  the  Binding  Corporate  Rules 
(BCRs)  of  Equinix  Inc,  following  a  request  by  the  UK 
Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).

The EDPB is of the opinion that the Equinix BCRs contain all 
elements required under Article 47 GDPR and WP 256 rev01, 
and contain the appropriate safeguards.

In case of Brexit, the company committed to initiate a new 
process  of  approval  with  an  alternative  SA  as  new  Lead 
BCR  SA  without  undue  delay  and,  in  the  event,  within  one 
calendar month.

During  its  November  plenary  meeting,  the  EDPB  adopted 
Opinion  16/2019  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory Authority regarding the Binding Corporate Rules 
of ExxonMobil Corporation. 

The  EDPB  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  draft  controller  BCRs 
provide  sufficient  safeguards  in  line  with  Article  46.2.b 
GDPR and comply with Article 47 GDPR. 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

5.3. 
The  EDPB  advises  the  European  Commission  on  any  issue 
related to the protection of personal data, on the format and 
procedures for information exchange between companies and 
SAs under Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs), and on certification 
requirements. The EDPB also advises the European Commission 
when assessing the adequacy of the level of data protection in 
third countries or international organisations. 

The  EDPB  is  also  subject  to  Article  42  of  Regulation 
2018/1725 on legislative consultation. This allows the EDPS 
and the EDPB to coordinate their work with a view to issuing 
a Joint Opinion. 

In  2019,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  adopted  a  Joint  Opinion 
concerning  the  data  protection  aspects  of  the  eHealth 
Digital Service Infrastructure. This Opinion was also issued 
following DG SANTE’s request.

The EDPB also adopted, on its own initiative, a statement on the 
draft ePrivacy Regulation and issued a contribution on the data 
protection aspects of the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime.

EU-U.S. Privacy Shield

5.3.1. 
Representatives  of  the  EDPB  participated  in  joint  reviews 
of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield adequacy decision, conducted 
by the European Commission to assess its robustness and 
practical  implementation.  The  EDPB  issued  reports  on  the 
Second  and  Third  Annual  Review  of  the  EU-U.S.  Privacy 
Shield.

During  its  January  plenary  meeting,  the  EDPB  adopted  its 
report  on  the  Second  Annual  Joint  Review  of  the  EU-U.S. 
Privacy  Shield,  which  was  conducted  by  the  European 
Commission in October 2018 with the support of the EDPB’s 
representatives.

The  EDPB  welcomed  efforts  made  by  the  United  States 
authorities  and  the  European  Commission  to  implement 
the  EU-U.S.  Privacy  Shield,  such  as  adapting  the  initial 
certification  process,  starting  ex-officio  oversight  and 
expanded  enforcement.  These  actions  also 
included 
enhanced transparency, following the decision to publish a 

number of important documents, in part via declassification 
by the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

that the Ombudsperson is vested with sufficient powers to 
access information and remedy non-compliance.

The  EDPB  also  welcomed  the  appointment  of  a  new  Chair 
and  three  new  members  of  the  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties 
Oversight Board (PCLOB), and a permanent Ombudsperson.

However, the EDPB had a number of significant concerns – 
already  expressed  by  the  EDPB’s  predecessor,  the  Article 
29  Working  Party  (WP29)  –  about  the  lack  of  concrete 
assurances aimed at excluding indiscriminate collection and 
access of personal data for national security purposes. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  did  not  consider  the  Ombudsperson 
to  have  been  vested  with  sufficient  powers  to  remedy 
non-compliance.  The  EDPB  also  pointed  out  that  checks 
regarding  compliance  with  the  substance  of  the  EU-U.S. 
Privacy Shield’s principles were not sufficiently strong.

The  EDPB  had  some  additional  concerns  about  the  checks 
needed  to  comply  with  the  onward  transfer  requirements, 
the scope of the meaning of HR Data, and the recertification 
process, as well as several issues still pending after the first 
joint review.

During  its  November  plenary  meeting,  the  EDPB  adopted 
its Third Annual Joint Review report on the EU-U.S. Privacy 
Shield. In its report, the Board welcomed the appointments 
of  the  last  missing  members  of  the  PCLOB  and  noted  that 
several  issues  previously  raised  remained  unsolved.  More 
generally,  the  EDPB  found  that  the  Review  Team  members 
would benefit from broader access to non-public information 
concerning commercial aspects and ongoing investigations.

Regarding the collection of data by public authorities, the EDPB 
encourages the PCLOB to issue and publish further reports in 
order  to  provide  an  independent  assessment  of  surveillance 
programmes  conducted  outside  U.S.  territory,  when  data  is 
transferred  from  the  EU  to  the  U.S.  The  EDPB  reiterated  that 
its  security-cleared  experts  remain  ready  to  review  further 
documents and discuss additional classified elements.

While  the  EDPB  welcomed  the  new  elements  provided 
during  the  2019  review  process,  it  still  could  not  conclude 

Opinion on clinical trials Q&A 

5.3.2. 
Under  Article  70  GDPR,  the  European  Commission  can 
submit  a  request  for  consultation  to  the  EDPB.  In  2018, 
the  Commission’s  DG  SANTE  requested  a  consultation  on 
a  document  on  “Questions  and  Answers  on  the  interplay 
between the Clinical Trials Regulation (CTR) and the General 
Data Protection regulation (GDPR)”. 

The EDPB subsequently adopted Opinion 3/2019 during its 
January plenary meeting. The Opinion addressed in particular 
the adequate legal bases of personal data processing in the 
context  of  clinical  trials  and  the  secondary  uses  of  clinical 
trial data for scientific purposes. 

Statement on the future ePrivacy Regulation

5.3.3. 
During its eighth plenary meeting in March 2019, the EDPB 
adopted Statement 3/2019 on an ePrivacy regulation.

The  EDPB  called  upon  EU  legislators  to  intensify  efforts 
towards  the  adoption  of  the  ePrivacy  Regulation,  which  is 
essential  to  complete  the  EU’s  data  protection  framework 
and the confidentiality of electronic communications.

future  ePrivacy  Regulation 

The 
should  under  no 
circumstance  lower  the  level  of  protection  offered  by  the 
current ePrivacy Directive and should complement the GDPR 
by providing additional guarantees for all types of electronic 
communications.

Additional protocol to the Budapest 
Convention on Cybercrime

5.3.4. 
 
In November 2019, the EDPB adopted a contribution to the 
draft  second  additional  protocol  to  the  Council  of  Europe 
Convention  on  Cybercrime  (Budapest  Convention),  to  be 
considered within the framework of consultations held by the 
Council of Europe Cybercrime Convention Committee (T-CY). 

The  EDPB  highlighted  that  the  protection  of  personal  data 
and  legal  certainty  must  be  guaranteed,  thus  contributing 
to  establishing  sustainable  arrangements  for  the  sharing 
of  personal  data  with  third  countries  for  law  enforcement 

18

19

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019purposes,  which  are  fully  compatible  with  the  EU  Treaties 
and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion on the eHealth Digital 
Service Infrastructure

5.3.5. 
 
During its July 2019 plenary meeting, the EDPB and the EDPS 
adopted Joint Opinion 1/2019 on the processing of patients’ 
data  and  the  role  of  the  European  Commission  within  the 
eHealth Digital Service Infrastructure (eHDSI). 

This was the first Joint Opinion by the EDPB and the EDPS. 
It was adopted in response to a request from the European 
Commission under Article 42.2 of Regulation 2018/1725 on 
data protection for EU institutions and bodies. 

The  eHealth  Network  is  a  voluntary  network  of  authorities 
responsible  for  eHealth,  as  designated  by  Member  States. 
One  of  its  main  objectives  is  to  enhance  interoperability 
between  national  digital  health  systems,  by  exchanging 
patient data contained in ePrescriptions, Patient Summaries 
and electronic health records. In this framework, the eHealth 
Network and the Commission have developed an IT tool, the 
eHealth Digital Service Infrastructure (eHDSI).

In their Opinion, the EDPB and EDPS considered that, in this 
specific situation and for the concrete processing of patients’ 
data within the eHDSI, there was no reason to dissent from 
the  European  Commission’s  assessment  of  its  role  as  a 
processor within the eHDSI. Furthermore, the Joint Opinion 
stressed  the  need  to  ensure  that  all  processing  duties  of 
the Commission in this operation were clearly set out in the 
relevant  Implementing  Act,  as  specified  in  the  applicable 
data protection legislation.

OTHER DOCUMENTS
Information note on data transfers under the 
GDPR in the event of a no-deal Brexit 

5.4. 
5.4.1. 
 
During  its  February  2019  plenary,  the  EDPB  adopted  an 
information  note  on  data  transfers  under  the  GDPR  in  the 
event of a no-deal Brexit, addressed to commercial entities 
and public authorities.

With regards to the transfer of personal data from the EEA 

to the UK,  the  EDPB  recommended  basing  the  process  on 
one of the following instruments: 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Standard or ad hoc Data Protection Clauses;
Binding Corporate Rules;
Codes of Conduct and Certification Mechanisms;
Specific instruments available to public authorities.

In the absence of Standard Data Protection Clauses or other 
alternative appropriate safeguards, derogations can be used 
under certain conditions, as outlined by Article 49 GDPR.

Information note on Binding Corporate Rules 
for companies which have the UK Information 
Commissioner’s Office as BCR Lead Supervisory 
Authority 

5.4.2. 
 
 
 
In February 2019, the EDPB also issued an information note 
to companies having the UK Information Commissioner’s Of-
fice (ICO) as their BCR LSA in the event of a no-deal Brexit.

Statement on the US Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act 

5.4.3. 
 
On 25 February 2019, the EDPB adopted Statement 01/2019 
on  the  US  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance  Act  (FATCA), 
following  the  European  Parliament’s  resolution  on  the 
adverse effects of the FATCA on EU citizens.

European SAs have long been aware of the data protection 
issues  raised  by  the  automatic  exchange  of  personal  data 
for  tax  purposes.  In  its  statement,  the  EDPB  referred  to 
previous work on the FATCA by its predecessor, the Article 
29 Working Party (WP29).

The EDPB also acknowledged the Parliament’s call to review 
existing data protection safeguards authorising the transfer of 
personal data to the United States’ Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS) for the purposes of the FATCA. In this regard, the EDPB 
has already initiated work on Guidelines on the elaboration of 
transfer tools based on Articles 46.2.a and 46.3.b GDPR.

include 

These  Guidelines  will 
information  on  minimum 
guarantees to be included in legally binding and enforceable 
instruments  concluded  between  public  authorities  and 
bodies, as well as data protection provisions to be included 

a  particular  message,  who  is  responsible  for  it,  and 
how they can exercise their rights as data subjects. In 
addition, certain Member States require transparency in 
matters of paid political advertisements.

the 

reiterated 

The  EDPB’s  statement 
importance  of 
compliance with data protection rules to protect democracy, 
preserve  citizens’  trust  and  confidence,  and  safeguard  the 
integrity  of  elections.  The  EDPB  encourages  maximum 
cooperation  among  SAs  in  monitoring  and  enforcing  these 
rules.

LIBE Report on the implementation of the 
GDPR

5.4.5. 
 
On  26  February  2019,  the  EDPB  LIBE  report  on  the 
implementation  of  GDPR  was  issued  following  a  request 
made  by  the  European  Parliament’s  Committee  on  Civil 
Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs Committee (LIBE).

This document provides an overview of the implementation 
and enforcement of the GDPR covering both the cooperation 
mechanism and the consistency findings.

Nine  months  after  the  GDPR’s  entry  into  application,  the 
EDPB concluded that the GDPR cooperation and consistency 
mechanism works quite well in practice. National SAs make 
daily  efforts  to  facilitate  this  cooperation,  via  written  and 
oral communication. 

in  administrative  arrangements  between  public  authorities 
or bodies. 

It  should  be  noted  that  legally  binding  instruments  do  not 
require  specific  authorisation  from  an  SA,  whereas  any 
provisions to be included in administrative arrangements are 
subject to such authorisation. 

This set of Guidelines, to be adopted in 2020, will also be a 
useful tool for evaluating the compliance of intergovernmental 
agreements  signed  between  Member  States  and  the  United 
States government on FATCA with the GDPR.

Statement on the use of personal data in 
political campaigns

5.4.4. 
 
During its March 2019 plenary meeting, the EDPB adopted 
Statement  2/2019  on  the  use  of  personal  data  in  the 
course of political campaigns, in light of the 2019 European 
Parliament elections and other elections taking place across 
the EU and beyond.

Data processing techniques for political purposes can pose 
serious risks to privacy and data protection rights, as well as 
to the integrity of the democratic process. In its statement, 
the EDPB highlighted a number of key points to be taken into 
consideration  when  political  parties  process  personal  data 
during their electoral activities.
1. 

Under  the  GDPR,  personal  data  revealing  political 
opinions is a special category of data and its processing 
is heavily limited, if not entirely prohibited.
Personal  data  made  public,  for  example  on  social 
media, is still subject to EU data protection law.
Even  where  data  processing  is  lawful,  organisations 
must respect their duties of fairness and transparency 
to 
individuals  whose  data  has  been  collected. 
Political  parties  and  candidates  must  stand  ready 
to  demonstrate  how  they  have  complied  with  data 
protection principles.

2. 

3. 

4.  Automated  decision-making, 

including  profiling, 

is 
only lawful with the valid explicit consent of the data 
subject.
In  case  of  targeting,  adequate  information  should  be 
provided  to  voters  explaining  why  they  are  receiving 

5. 

20

21

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019However,  these  cooperation  duties  do  entail  additional 
workload  and  time  resources,  which  in  turn  can  have  an 
impact on SAs’ budgets. The handling of cross-border cases 
in  particular  takes  a  considerable  amount  of  time,  given 
the  need  for  thorough  investigations  and  compliance  with 
national  procedural  rules.  The  EDPB  noted  that  national 
SAs  must  tackle  challenges  regarding  the  harmonized 
enforcement of the GDPR. 

Finally, while the EDPB reported six final One-Stop-Shop (OSS) 
cases, it could not provide testimony about the effectiveness 
of  the  consistency  mechanism  for  these,  since  no  dispute 
resolution was necessary during the reporting period.

EDPB pleading before the CJEU in Case C-311/18 
(Facebook Ireland and Schrems) 

5.4.6. 
 
On 9 July 2019, the EDPB Chair appeared before the Court of 
Justice of the European Union (CJEU), which requested an oral 
pleading on Case C-311/18 (Facebook Ireland and Schrems). 

The  case  arose  from  a  preliminary  reference  made  by  the 
Irish  High  Court  to  the  CJEU,  following  a  legal  challenge 
brought by Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems in relation 
to  Facebook’s  use  of  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  (SCCs) 
to transfer data from Facebook Ireland to servers located in 
the United States. Mr. Schrems argued that Facebook Inc.’s 
obligation to make the personal data of its users available 
to  the  United  States  authorities  in  charge  of  surveillance 
programmes 
rights 
guaranteed in Article 7, 8 and 47 of the Charter, and that no 
remedies were put in place. In this context, the CJEU invited 
the EDPB to participate in the oral hearing that took place on 
9 July 2019.

the  exercise  of 

threatened 

the 

In its pleading, the EDPB answered several questions asked 
by  the  CJEU.  The  EDPB  underlined  the  difference  between 
SCCs  and  adequacy  decisions  and  stated  that,  with  regard 
to  the  SCCs,  the  European  Commission  is  not  obliged  to 
examine  the  continuity  of  the  protection  afforded  by  EU 
law.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  considered  that  verifying  the 
compliance  of  transfers  with  the  EU  data  protection  law 
when considering whether to enter into the SCCs should be 
primarily the responsibility of the exporter and the importer. 

This should be further assessed by the competent SA, which 
may suspend transfers if it finds that exporter and importer 
did not comply with their obligations under the SCCs.

The EDPB’s view was that the continuity of data protection 
afforded under EU laws also needs to be ensured during data 
transit  to  a  third  country,  no  matter  which  transfer  tool  is 
used.  This  includes  data  outside  or  on  its  way  to  the  EU’s 
physical borders.

With  regard  to  questions  on  adequacy  decisions,  the 
EDPB  stated  that  all  domestic  rules  are  relevant  for  the 
assessment  of  adequacy  and  that  data  subjects  should 
be  able  to  enforce  their  rights  before  the  third  country’s 
courts.  In  this  regard,  even  though  the  establishment  of 
the  Ombudsperson  mechanism  under  the  Privacy  Shield 
framework  is  welcomed,  the  EDPB  stressed  that  it  cannot 
conclude  that  the  Ombudsperson  constitutes  an  effective 
remedy before a tribunal in the meaning of Article 47 of the 
Charter of Fundamental Rights.   

Finally,  the  EDPB  stressed  the  importance  of  the  role  of 
the  SAs  in  upholding  and  spreading  EU  standards  on  the 
fundamental right to data protection. 

At the time of this report going to press, the CJEU had not yet 
issued a final ruling on the case.

PLENARY MEETINGS AND SUBGROUPS 

5.5. 
Between 1 January and 31 December 2019, the EDPB held 11 
plenary meetings. The agendas of the plenary sessions are 
published on the EDPB website. During these meetings, the 
EDPB  adopted  Guidelines,  Opinions,  and  other  documents 
such  as  statements  or  informative  notes  to  advise  the 
European Commission, national Supervisory Authorities, and 
other stakeholders on GDPR matters, as outlined earlier in 
this chapter.

In  addition,  there  were  90  expert  subgroup  meetings.  The 
different  expert  subgroups  focus  on  specific  areas  of  data 
protection and assist the EDPB in performing its tasks. The 
list of the expert subgroups and their respective mandates 
are available in Section 9. 

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS AND 
TRANSPARENCY 
Stakeholder events on future guidance

5.6. 
 
5.6.1. 
The EDPB organises stakeholder events to gather input and 
views on issues in the interest of developing future guidance. 
In 2019, the EDPB organised three such events focusing on 
the  revised  Payments  Services  Directive  (PSD2),  on  the 
concepts and responsibilities of controllers and processors, 
and on data subject rights.

Interplay of PSD2 and GDPR

5.6.1.1. 
On  27  February  2019,  the  EDPB’s  Financial  Matters  Expert 
Subgroup  (FMES)  organised  a  workshop  on  the  revised 
Payments  Services  Directive  (PSD2),  in  order  to  collect 
stakeholders’ views and inform future Guidelines. 

The EDPB organises 
stakeholder events to gather 
input and views on issues 
in the interest of developing 
future guidance.

Of the event’s 39 participants, 16 were external stakeholders. 
Representatives from banking federations, payment institutions 

federations, consumer protection associations, academia, and 
the  European  Commission’s  Directorate-General  for  Financial 
Stability,  Financial  Services  and  Capital  Markets  Union  (DG 
FISMA) presented at the workshop. Other participants included 
collection associations, credit information suppliers, banks, and 
financial market associations.

The discussions highlighted the key areas already identified 
by the FMES where guidance is required, as well as providing 
concrete examples. The feedback will be used as basis for 
developing Guidelines on PSD2. 

5.6.1.2.  Concepts of controller and processor
On 25 March 2019, the EDPB organised a full-day stakeholder 
event  to  gather  the  views  of  EU  sector  organisations  and 
NGOs  in  the  context  of  the  EDPB’s  recast  of  the  Article 
29  Working  Party’s  Opinion  1/2010  on  the  concepts  of 
controller and processor. Around 80 participants, including 
EDPB  representatives,  attended  the  event,  which  received 
positive feedback overall.

To facilitate greater engagement, core discussions took place 
in three smaller breakout sessions with rotating rapporteurs 
and moderators. Each group addressed the following topics: 
• 
The  concepts  of  controller  and  processor:  issues 
raised  related  to  the  relationship  between  controllers 
and  processors,  the  main  criteria  for  identifying  the 
controller,  clarification  of  other  concepts  such  as 

22

23

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019• 

• 

recipient and third party, and the consistent application 
of the Guidelines. Additionally, stakeholders suggested 
including as many practical examples as possible. 
The  specific  obligations  of  processors  and  the 
contracts  between  controllers  and  processors: 
stakeholders highlighted the need to revise the current 
guidance  to  reflect  changes  in  the  legal  framework 
and  the  business  environment,  and  voiced  concern 
over  the  difficulty  to  implement  certain  new  duties 
for  processors,  especially  SMEs.  Stakeholders  also 
identified  a  need  for  guidance  on  the  controller’s 
audit rights, the obligation for the processor to inform 
the  controller  in  case  of  an  infringement,  and  duties 
regarding sub-processors.  
Joint controllership: stakeholders once more stressed 
the  changed  business  context  for  data  sharing  and 
highlighted  difficulties  when 
incorporating  practical 
duties  in  contracts.  They  suggested  that  guidance 
should  further  clarify  the  criteria  to  be  taken  into 
account  when  determining  whether  the  relationship 
qualifies as joint controllership.

The  feedback  provided  by  stakeholders  and  especially  the 
need for practical examples will be considered when drafting 
the guidelines.

5.6.1.3.  Data subject rights
On  4  November  2019,  the  EDPB  organised  a  full-day 
stakeholder event on the topic of data subject rights. Attendees 
included  representatives  from  individual  companies,  sector 
organisations, NGOs, law firms, and academia. 

Developing guidance on data subject rights is one of the EDPB’s 
2020  priorities.  During  the  event,  around  160  participants, 
including EDPB representatives, had the opportunity to share 
their experiences on this topic and raise issues. 

The  workshop  followed  a  similar  format  as  the  March 
2019 event, which proved to be engaging for stakeholders. 
Discussions  were  spread  across  three  smaller  breakout 
sessions  with  rotating  rapporteurs  and  moderators,  each 
addressing the following topics: 
• 

Right of access: issues raised related to the type and 
format  of  information  requested,  formal  requirements 
such  as  identity  verification  and  dedicated  channels, 

• 

• 

to 

right 

rectification  and 

and clarifications on third-party access requests.
Right 
to  erasure: 
stakeholders  shared  concerns  on  differences  and 
interplays  between  rights,  technical  means  and  proof 
of  erasure,  and  requests  involving  joint  controllers  or 
controllers outside the EEA.
Right  to  restrict  processing  and  right  to  object: 
stakeholders  asked  for  concrete  examples,  as  well  as 
guidance on the practical implementation of restriction 
and  issues  of  legitimate  interest,  especially  related  to 
direct marketing.

The  EDPB  will  take  into  account  input  provided  during  the 
workshop,  including  the  practical  examples  shared  by  the 
stakeholders,  the  guidance  requested  and  the  questions 
raised.  In  2020,  the  relevant  expert  subgroup  will  further 
discuss the topics and work on Guidelines. 

Public consultations on draft guidance

5.6.2. 
Following  the  preliminary  adoption  of  Guidelines,  the  EDPB 
organises  public  consultations  to  give  stakeholders  and 
citizens the opportunity to provide additional input. This input 
is then taken into account by the EDPB members in charge of 
drafting. Next, the Guidelines are adopted in their final version.

further  enhance 

To 
the  EDPB  adapted 
its  website  to  enable  the  publication  of  stakeholders’ 
contributions to public consultations. 

transparency, 

In 2019, the EDPB launched five such consultations:
• 

In  February,  the  EDPB  opened  two  public  consultations, 
on Guidelines on Codes of Conduct (1/2019) and on the 
Annex  to  the  Guidelines  on  Certification  (1/2018),  for 
which it received 44 and 8 contributions respectively. The 
final versions of the Guidelines and of the Annex, including 
further points of clarification, were adopted in June.
In  April,  the  EDPB  opened  a  public  consultation  on 
Guidelines  on  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the 
context  of  online  services  (2/2019),  receiving  45 
contributions.
In  July,  the  EDPB  opened  a  public  consultation  on 
Guidelines on video surveillance (3/2019), receiving 94 
contributions.
In November, the EDPB opened a public consultation on 
Guidelines on Data Protection by Design and by Default 

• 

• 

• 

marked  increase  of  respondents  who  found  the  guidelines 
easily accessible on the EDPB’s website: nearly 80 percent, 
up from 64 percent in 2018. 

On the first section of the survey, dedicated to the Guidelines’ 
content,  the  majority  of  respondents  welcomed  the  pan-
European  applicability  of  the  Guidelines,  judging  that  this 
prevents  national  fragmentation.  Half  of  the  respondents 
judged the Guidelines to provide sufficient examples in their 
respective  area  of  regulation,  and  one  of  the  respondents 
expressed appreciation for the fact that the EDPB guidelines 
include many real-life examples.

Stakeholders encouraged 
further interpretative 
work but noted that the 
Guidelines are a useful tool 
in supporting the application 
of the GDPR.

Further  interpretative  work  was  encouraged  to  clarify,  for 
example,  the  relationship  between  controller  and  processor 
and the legal basis of legitimate interest. The EDPB welcomes 
this timely feedback as it schedules an update of the dedicated 
Article 29 Working Party Guidelines, to be carried out during 
2020, in line with the 2019-2020 EDPB Work programme.

• 

(4/2019). This consultation was still open at the end of 
2019.
In December, the EDPB opened a public consultation on 
Guidelines  on  the  Right  to  be  Forgotten  in  the  search 
engine cases (5/2019). This consultation was still open 
at the end of 2019.

Stakeholder survey on adopted guidance

5.6.3. 
For the second year in a row, the EDPB conducted a survey 
as part of the annual review of the Board’s activities under 
Article  71.2  GDPR.  Questions  focused  on  the  content  and 
adoption  process  of  the  EDPB’s  Guidelines,  with  a  view  to 
understanding to what extent stakeholders find them helpful 
and practical to interpret GDPR’s provisions. 

5.6.3.1.  Participants
53 entities including organisations and individual companies, 
representing different countries, sectors and business sizes 
participated in the survey. The majority of respondents were 
based  in  Europe  (50  organisations),  while  the  remaining 
three were based in North America. 

The  financial,  banking  and  insurance  sector  was  the  most 
represented,  with  17  contributors,  followed  by  wholesale 
and retail trade (nine respondents), information technologies 
(six  respondents),  human  health  and  social  work  activities 
(six respondents), and human and fundamental rights (three 
respondents). 

More  than  60  percent  of  respondents  were  representing 
small entities, with less than 250 employees. 

The  results  showed  that  participants  had  consulted,  on 
average, four Guidelines. 

5.6.3.2.  Findings
In  line  with  the  results  of  the  2018  survey,  64  percent  of 
stakeholders participating in the survey found the Guidelines 
to  be  useful  and  46  percent  considered  them  to  be 
sufficiently  pragmatic  and  operational  for  their  needs.  One 
of the suggestions was to avoid long pages of guidelines and 
to include checklists to better guide the companies. 

In  addition,  62  percent  of  those  who  responded  to  the 
survey  found  the  Guidelines  easy  to  read.  There  was  a 

24

25

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Compliance  with  the  GDPR  for  SMEs  remains  a  challenge, 
but  stakeholders  noted  that  the  EDPB’s  Guidelines  are  a 
useful tool in supporting its application.

40  percent  of  stakeholders  found  the  consultative  process 
appropriate to satisfying. They welcomed the EDPB’s openness 
to public consultations and the opportunities given to express 
views on the Board’s work. Part of the respondents appreciated 
the  clarity  and  accessibility  of  the  EDPB’s  workshops,  but 
encouraged further improvements in transparency. 

5.6.3.3.   Conclusions
The  EDPB  highly  appreciated  the  stakeholders’  participation 
and  was  pleased  to  see  that  respondents  acknowledged  the 
Guidelines’ usefulness. Feedback on the Guidelines’ operational 
value  and  alignment  with  other  EU 
laws  was  equally 
appreciated, as it gave precious insights into stakeholder needs, 
and will inform the Board’s work moving forward.

The  EDPB  also  welcomed 
stakeholders’  value  of 
transparency  and  interest  in  participating  in  the  adoption 
process.  In  2020,  the  EDPB  is  committed  to  continuing  its 
cooperation  and  outreach  to  inform  the  development  and 
effectiveness of future guidance.

Transparency and access to documents

5.6.4. 
Transparency  is  a  core  principle  of  the  EDPB  and  in  2020, 
the EDPB will continue to implement measures designed to 
increase  the  transparency  of  its  work.  As  an  EU  body,  the 
EDPB is subject to Article 15 of the Treaty of the Functioning 
of the European Union and Regulation 1049/2001 on public 
access to documents. Article 76.2 GDPR and Article 32 of the 
EDPB’s Rules of Procedure (RoP) reinforce this requirement.

Upholding  the  principle  of  transparency  means  that  any 
citizen of the European Union and any natural or legal person 
residing or having its registered office in a Member State has 
the right to access EDPB documents. This right applies to all 
documents held by the EDPB, concerning any matter relating 
to its responsibilities.

In  exceptional  cases,  the  EDPB  can  refuse  to  disclose  a 
document,  or  part  of  it.  The  reasons  for  refusal  and  other 
procedural rules are outlined in the EU Public Access Regulation.

In 2019, the number of public access requests registered for 
documents held by the EDPB was 39.

EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF THE BOARD 

5.7. 
Public  awareness  and  cooperation  are  vital  to  upholding 
data protection rights in the EEA and beyond, which is why 
the EDPB values stakeholder and citizen engagement. 

The  EDPB  Secretariat  supports  the  Chair  and  the  Deputy 
Chairs in engagements with other EU institutions or bodies 
and when they represent the EDPB at conferences and multi-
stakeholder platforms. 

Staff members from the EDPB Secretariat also take part in 
several events to present the activities of the EDPB. 

Participation of Chair and Deputy Chair in 
conferences and speaking engagements
Chair of the EDPB

5.7.1. 
 
5.7.1.1. 
In  2019,  EDPB  Chair  Andrea 
Jelinek  had  34  speaking 
engagements, including keynote speeches, presentations and 
panel debates in a range of institutes, think tanks and forums. 
She also met with EU Commissioners and travelled to meet 
with data protection officials from countries outside the EEA.

During the G20 meeting in Tokyo, Japan, the Chair took part 
in a side event entitled “DPAs’ role in Global Data Flows”, 
held  on  3  July  2019  and  organised  by  the  Japanese  Data 
Protection Authority. 

In her opening remarks, the Chair explained the role of the 
EDPB, its activities so far and the importance of international 
convergence. She also talked about the EU-Japan adequacy 
decision, stressing its importance as a model for successful 
international cooperation.

On 9 July, the Chair was invited to a hearing at the Court 
of  Justice  of  the  European  Union  (CJEU)  in  Luxembourg, 
concerning Case C-311/18 (Facebook Ireland and Schrems).
 
The  Chair  of  the  EDPB  also  met  twice  with  the  European 
Parliament’s  Committee  on  Civil  Liberties,  Justice  and 
Home  Affairs  Committee  (LIBE  Committee),  in  February 
and in December. These meetings provided the opportunity 

Participation of the EDPB Secretariat Staff in 
conferences and speaking engagements

5.7.3. 
 
In 2019, EDPB Secretariat staff members participated in 35 
conferences or other engagements with an average of three 
per month. They were usually invited to deliver speeches or 
presentations or to join panel discussions. 

Election of representative and substitute to the 
5.7.4. 
 
Stakeholders Cybersecurity Certification Group
During its December 2019 plenary meeting, the EDPB confirmed 
the appointments of the representative and substitute to the 
Stakeholders Cybersecurity Certification Group.

The Group was established by the Cybersecurity Act, which 
entered into force on 27 June 2019. Among its provisions, the 
Act seeks to establish an EU-wide cybersecurity certification 
framework.  The  Group’s  goal  is  to  provide  appropriate 
governance  at  the  EU  level  and  to  support  ENISA  and  the 
European  Commission 
facilitating  consultation  with 
relevant stakeholders.

in 

identifies  EU  SAs  as  such 
The  Cybersecurity  Act 
stakeholders.  For  this  reason,  the  European  Commission’s 
Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content 
and  Technology  (DG  CNECT)  sent  a  letter  to  the  EDPB  on 
1  October  2019,  requesting  that  a  representative  and  a 
substitute for the Group be appointed. 

The Compliance, eGovernment and Health Expert Subgroup 
(CEH ESG), which has a mandate to deal with certification and 
accreditation topics, evaluated candidates who volunteered 
to  act  as  EDPB  representatives  to  the  Group.  During  its 
meeting of 15 November 2019, the CEH ESG nominated Mr. 
Desmond de Haan, from the Netherlands, as representative 
and  Ms.  Georgia  Panagopoulou,  from  Greece,  as  substitute. 
They were subsequently approved and appointed by the EDPB.

to  present  the  EDPB’s  work  and  to  give  an  overview  of 
GDPR’s implementation.

In  2019,  the  EDPB  became  Observer  of  the  International 
Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners 
(ICDPPC,  now  the  Global  Privacy  Assembly  –  GPA).  During 
the  October  annual  meeting  held  in  Tirana,  Albania,  the 
Chair  presented  the  EDPB’s  work  and  outlined  the  GDPR’s 
main  provisions,  including  the  cooperation  and  consistency 
mechanism.

The  Chair  of  the  EDPB  also  participated  in  other  high-
level  forums  on  data  protection,  such  as  the  Europe  Data 
Protection  Congress  and  the  Global  Summit  of  the 
International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP).

5.7.1.2.  Deputy Chair of the EDPB
EDPB  Deputy  Chair  Ventsislav  Karadjov  took  part  in  six 
speaking  engagements  during  2019,  mainly  in  the  EU  but 
also in the United States, on the occasion of the third annual 
review of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield.

As  well  as  taking  part  in  events  organised  by  the  European 
Commission and the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity 
(ENISA), the Deputy Chair attended high-level platforms such 
as  the  Mobile  World  Congress  (MWC)  ministerial  meeting, 
where he spoke about GDPR, data privacy and blockchain.

Participation of the EDPB Members in 
conferences and speaking engagements

5.7.2. 
 
In 2019, EDPB Members represented the EDPB in a number 
of events. Some of these were organised by trade, consumer, 
or  professional  associations  dealing  with  aspects  of  data 
protection and the implementation of the GDPR, while other 
invitations came from academia and think tanks. 

Several engagements were organised on the initiative of EU 
institutions and bodies, such as the European Central Bank, 
the  European  Ombudsman,  and  the  European  Parliament’s 
LIBE Committee.

EDPB representatives also participated in high-level forums 
on data protection, such as the ICDPPC and the IAPP Europe 
Data Protection Congress and Global Summit.

26

27

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Further information on this subject is available in Article 1.2 
of  the  Article  29  Working  Party  Guidelines  for  identifying  a 
controller or processor’s lead Supervisory Authority, endorsed 
by the EDPB at its first plenary meeting on 25 May 2018.

The EDPB created workflows in the Internal Market Information 
System  (IMI)  to  enable  SAs  to  identify  their  respective 
roles.  This  IT  platform  is  used  to  support  cooperation  and 
consistency procedures under the GDPR. The main purpose of 
this procedure is to define roles at an early stage. 

In case of conflicting views regarding which authority should 
act as LSA, the EDPB will act as a dispute resolution body 
and issue a binding decision.

Since 25 May 2018, 807 procedures were initiated to identify 
the LSA and the CSA in cross-border cases. No disputes on 
the selection of the LSA occurred.

Database regarding cases with a cross-border 
component

6.1.2. 
 
A case with a cross-border component may occur in several 
situations:  when  the  controller  or  the  processor  has  an 
establishment  in  more  than  one  Member  State;  when  the 
data  processing  activity  substantially  affects  individuals 
in  more  than  one  Member  State;  or  when  SAs  are  simply 
exchanging 
i.e.  providing  each  other  with 
mutual assistance.

information, 

Such cases are registered in a central database via the IMI 
sysem,  from  which  the  aforementioned  procedures  can  be 
initiated. 

Since  the  entry  into  application  of  the  GDPR,  there  were 
807 cross-border cooperation procedures in the IMI system, 
out  of  which  585  cases  were  started  in  2019.  Of  these 
cross-border  cooperation  procedures,  425  resulted  from  a 
complaint,  while  the  others  originated  from  other  sources, 
such as investigations, legal obligations or media reports.

Supervisory Authority 

activities in 2019

Under the GDPR, Supervisory Authorities (SAs) have a duty 
to cooperate in order to ensure consistent application of the 
Regulation.  In  cases  that  have  a  cross-border  component, 
the  SAs  of  the  European  Economic  Area  (EEA),  i.e.  the  28 
EU Member States (27 as of 31 January 2020) plus Iceland, 
Norway  and  Liechtenstein,  have  a  range  of  tools  at  their 
disposal to facilitate harmonisation. These are: 
•  mutual assistance;
• 
• 

joint operation;
the One-Stop-Shop cooperation mechanism. 

CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION
Preliminary procedure to identify the Lead and 
Concerned Supervisory Authorities

6.1. 
6.1.1. 
 
Before  starting  a  One-Stop-Shop  procedure  for  a  cross-
border  case,  it  is  necessary  to  identify  the  Supervisory 
Authority that will lead the investigation (LSA) and the other 
Concerned Supervisory Authorities (CSAs). The LSA will lead 
the investigation and draft the decision, while the CSAs will 
have the opportunity to raise objections. 

The  LSA  is  identified  as  the  authority  of  the  EEA  country 
where  the  data  controller  or  processor  under  investigation 
has  its  main  establishment.  For  example,  the  place  of 
central administration is one of the criteria used to identify a 
controller or processor’s main establishment.

One-Stop-Shop Mechanism

6.1.3. 
The OSS mechanism demands cooperation between the LSA 
and the CSAs. The LSA leads the investigation and plays a 
key role in the process of reaching consensus between the 
CSAs, in addition to working to reach a coordinated decision 
with regard to the data controller or processor.

The  LSA  must  first  investigate  the  case  while  taking  into 
account national procedural rules, ensuring that the affected 
individuals  are  able  to  exercise  their  right  to  be  heard,  for 
example. During this phase, the LSA can gather information 
from  another  SA  via  mutual  assistance  or  by  conducting  a 
joint investigation.

The IMI system also gives the LSA the opportunity to informally 
communicate with all CSAs to collect relevant information. 

Once  the  LSA  has  completed  its  investigation,  it  prepares 
a  draft  decision,  which  it  then  communicates  to  the  CSAs. 
They have the right to object. This either leads to a revised 
draft decision or, if no consensus can be found, triggers the 
EDPB’s dispute resolution mechanism. 

In such cases, the EDPB will act as a dispute resolution body 
and issue a binding decision. The LSA must adopt its final 
decision on the basis of the EDPB’s decision. 

If the CSAs do not object to either the initial draft or the revised 
decision, they are deemed to agree with the draft decision.

The  IMI  system  offers  different  procedures  that  can  be 
followed when handling OSS cases: 
• 
• 

Informal consultation procedures; 
Draft  decisions  or  revised  decisions  submitted  by  the 
LSA to the CSAs; 
Final OSS decisions submitted to the CSAs and to the 
EDPB. 

• 

By  the  end  of  2019,  142  OSS  procedures  were  initiated  by 
SAs, 79 of which resulted in a final decision. 

28

29

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 20196.1.4.  Mutual assistance
The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 
investigations. 

The  IMI  system  enables  the  use  of  either  informal  mutual 
assistance  without  any  legal  deadline  or  the  use  of  formal 
mutual assistance. In the latter case, according to the GDPR, 
the  SA  from  which  information  has  been  requested  has  a 
legal deadline of one month to reply. 

Mutual assistance can be used for cross-border cases subject 
to the OSS procedure, either as part of the preliminary phase, 
to gather the necessary information before drafting a decision 
or for national cases with a cross-border component.

Since  25  May  2018,  2,542  mutual  assistance  procedures 
were  triggered.  Of  these  procedures,  the  overwhelming 
majority  (2,427)  were  informal  consultation  procedures, 
while 115 were formal requests.

Overview of GDPR procedures in IMI

Preliminary procedures

Identi(cid:31)cation of LSA and CSA - Article 56

Creation of entry in Case register for the Case

GDPR 
CASE

Cooperation Procedures

Consistency Procedures

One-Stop-Shop

Article 60

Mutual Assistance

Article 61

Voluntary Mutual Assistence

Article 61

Joint Operations

Article 62

Local Case Requests

Article 56

Opinion by the EDPB

Article 64

Dispute Resolution by the EDPB

Article 65

Urgent Opinion/Decision by the EDPB

Article 66

Joint operations

6.1.5. 
The  GDPR  allows  SAs  to  carry  out  joint  investigations 
and  joint  enforcement  measures.  Similarly  to  the  mutual 
assistance  procedure,  joint  operations  can  be  used  in  the 
context of cross-border cases subject to the OSS procedure 
or for national cases with a cross-border component.

In 2019, no joint operations were carried out by SAs.

NATIONAL CASES1

6.2. 
National  SAs  have  different  corrective  measures  at  their 
disposal: 
• 

Issuing warnings to a controller or processor that intended 
processing operations are likely to infringe the GDPR; 
Issuing reprimands to a controller or processor where 
processing operations have infringed the GDPR; 
Ordering  the  controller  or  processor  to  comply  with 
a  data  subject’s  requests  or  to  bring  processing 
operations into compliance with the GDPR; 
Imposing processing limitations, bans or fines. 

• 

• 

• 

Some relevant national cases with exercise of 
corrective powers 

6.2.1. 
 
The violations included failure to implement provisions such 
as privacy by default and design, right to access or right to 
erasure.  Many  cases  highlighted  a  lack  of  proper  technical 
and  organisational  measures  for  ensuring  data  protection, 
which led to data breaches. 

Several  significant  incidents  involved  the  processing  of 
special categories of data, such as political opinions, credit 
information or biometric data. The entities fined were from 
both the private and the public sector.

Austria

6.2.1.1. 
In 2019, the Austrian SA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 
18 million on the Austrian postal service (Österreichische Post 
AG), ruling that it had violated several provisions of the GDPR.

The  violations  included  processing  of  special  categories  of 
data such as political opinions without explicit consent from 
data subjects. The Austrian SA found an additional violation 
related to the processing of package and relocation data for 
direct marketing purposes.

On 12 February, the Austrian SA imposed an immediate ban 
on  these  processing  operations  and  ordered  the  erasure  of 
the  data.  This  decision  was  followed  by  the  issuing  of  the 
administrative fine on 23 October. In both cases, the decisions 
have been challenged before the Federal Administrative Court.

On  12  August,  the  Austrian  SA  imposed  an  administrative 
fine of EUR 55,000 on a controller operating in the medical 
sector. For more than six months, the controller had neither 
appointed a data protection officer nor had it carried out a 
DPIA. In addition, the controller had obliged data subjects to 
give  their  consent  to  non-GDPR  compliant  data  processing 
and had failed to provide them with information required by 
Articles 13 and 14 GDPR.

imposed 

6.2.1.2.  Belgium
On  28  May  2019,  the  Belgian  SA 
its  first 
financial  penalty  since  the  GDPR  entered  into  force.  The 
administrative fine amounted to EUR 2,000 and concerned 
the misuse of personal data for election purposes. In taking 
this decision, the SA stressed that matters of data protection 
should be considered especially important in the context of 
a governmental mandate.

The  Belgian  SA  issued  several  other  fines  or  reprimands 
under the GDPR in 2019: 
• 

On  9  July,  the  SA  issued  a  reprimand  to  the  Federal 
Public Service for Health after it failed to respond to the 
exercise of a citizen’s right to data access, despite being 
ordered to do so by the SA. The decision highlighted the 
lack  of  internal  procedures  enabling  the  institution  to 
meet the GDPR’s requirements.

30

1   This non-exhaustive list is based on information received 
from the national Supervisory Authorities.

31

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019• 

• 

• 

• 

On  17  September,  the  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR 
10,000  on  a  retailer  for  requesting  a  customer’s 
electronic  identity  card  in  order  to  create  a  loyalty 
card;  the  amount  and  nature  of  data  were  deemed 
disproportionate to the purposes of the service.
On 25 November, the SA imposed a fine of EUR 5,000 
on  a  mayor  and  a  municipal  officer  in  two  separate 
cases. The SA found that they improperly used personal 
information to send political advertisements as part of 
a re-election campaign during the 2018 local elections. 
Again,  the  SA  highlighted  how  individuals  in  public 
office need to behave exemplarily with regard to data 
protection, since this is vital to preserve citizens’ trust 
in democracy.
On 17 December, the SA imposed a fine of EUR 15,000 
on  a  website  specialized 
legal  news  for  their 
noncompliant cookie management and privacy policy.
On  the  same  day,  the  SA  ruled  that  a  non-profit 
association had failed to comply with a data subject’s 
access  request.  The  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  2,000 
and ordered the association to meet the request.

in 

in  most  EU  countries  national  SAs  can 

6.2.1.3.  Denmark
While 
issue 
administrative fines, the rules vary in Estonia and Denmark. 
Having examined and assessed a case, the Danish SA transfers 
it to the police, who examine whether there is a basis for a 
charge. Any financial penalty is then decided in court. 

On  25  March  2019,  the  Danish  SA  proposed  to  fine  taxi 
company  Taxa  4x35  a  total  of  DKK  1.2  million  (over  EUR 
160,000) for violating the GDPR. This was the first time that 
the Danish SA proposed a fine under the GDPR.

During  a  2018  inspection,  the  Danish  SA  found  that  the 
company  had  failed  to  delete  its  customers’  data,  which 
amounted to over 8 million personal data records. 

On 11 June 2019, the Danish SA proposed a fine of DKK 1.5 
million (over EUR 200,000) on furniture company IDDesign 
A/S  for  failing  to  delete  the  data  of  385,000  customers. 
The company had in fact stored this data in an old system, 
failing to update it when the GDPR entered into force. As a 
consequence, deadlines for deletion were never set.

Finland

6.2.1.4. 
On 15 February 2019, the Finnish SA ordered financial credit 
company  Svea  Ekonomi  to  correct  its  practices  for  the 
processing of personal data.

This  decision  resulted  from  two  cases,  the  first  of  which 
arose from a single data subject’s complaint and concerned 
the personal data used to assess creditworthiness and the 
data subject’s right to inspect this data.

The  SA  also 
investigated  Svea  Ekonomi’s  notification 
practices  related  to  the  automatic  decision-making  system 
used  to  assess  creditworthiness,  finding  that  they  did  not 
sufficiently  explain  the  logic  for  data  processing  to  the 
extent that a credit applicant could understand the grounds 
for the decision.

France

6.2.1.5. 
On  21  January,  the  French  SA  (CNIL)  imposed  a  financial 
penalty  of  EUR  50  million  on  Google  LLC  for  lack  of 
transparency,  inadequate  information  and  lack  of  valid 
consent regarding the personalisation of ads. This was the 
first time that the CNIL issued a fine under the GDPR.

The  case  arose  from  group  complaints  made  by  two 
associations in 2018, which challenged Google’s legal basis 
to  process  its  service  users’  personal  data,  particularly  for 
ad personalisation purposes.

As  Google  has  its  European  headquarters  in  Ireland,  the 
CNIL contacted the other SAs to assess which Supervisory 
Authority should be considered the LSA. 

The European headquarters of Google did not have decision-
making powers on the processing operations in the context
of  the  Android  system  or  the  services  provided  by  Google 
when  creating  an  account  during  the  configuration  of 
a  mobile  phone.  Due  to  these  circumstances,  the  OSS 
mechanism was not applicable.

Therefore,  the  CNIL  was  able  to  initiate  investigations  into 
the  compliance  of  the  processing  operations  implemented 
by Google with the French Data Protection Act and the GDPR.
The  CNIL’s  restricted  committee  observed  two  types  of 

technical 

sufficient 

provide 
and  organizational 
measures to prevent unauthorised persons from being 
able  to  obtain  customer  information  via  the  customer 
hotline service.
It also imposed a fine of EUR 10,000 on Rapidata GmbH 
for failing to appoint an internal data protection officer.

• 

6.2.1.7.  Greece
In  2019,  the  Hellenic  SA  imposed  four  administrative  fines 
under the GDPR:
• 

Hellenic 

provider 

In  July,  after  an  investigation  into  Pricewaterhouse-
Coopers  Business  Solutions,  the  SA  found  that  the 
company  had  processed  employees’  personal  data 
in  an  unlawful,  unfair  and  non-transparent  manner. 
As  a  result,  the  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  150,000 
and  ordered  the  company  to  correct  its  processing 
operations to comply with the GDPR.  
On 7 October, the SA imposed two administrative fines 
amounting  to  a  total  of  EUR  400,000  on  telephone 
service 
Telecommunications 
Organization (OTE), for failure to implement a number 
of provisions under the GDPR, namely the principle of 
accuracy,  data  protection  by  design  and  the  right  to 
object.
In December, after an investigation into ALLSEAS MARINE 
S.A.,  the  SA  found  that  the  GDPR  had  been  infringed. 
The company had failed to comply with a data subject’s 
request to access his personal data stored on a company 
computer.  As  a  result,  the  SA  ordered  the  company  to 
comply  with  the  complainant’s  request  immediately. 
In  addition,  it  ordered  the  company  to  ensure  within  a 
month that the processing operations via video devices 
comply  with  the  GDPR  and  imposed  an  administrative 
fine amounting to EUR 15,000 on the company. 

breaches of the GDPR:
• 

• 

A  violation  of  the  obligations  of  transparency  and 
information.  The 
information  provided  by  Google 
was  found  to  be  not  easily  accessible  for  users.  In 
addition,  some  information  was  not  always  clear  nor 
comprehensive.
A  violation  of  the  obligation  to  have  a  legal  basis 
for  data  processing  for  ad  personalisation.  It  was 
observed  that  the  users’  consent  was  not  sufficiently 
informed  in  relation  to  the  extent  of  data  processing. 
Moreover,  the  collected  consent  was  neither  specific 
nor unambiguous, as it lacked a clear affirmative action 
from the user.

• 

• 

that 

restricted  committee  deemed 

these 
The  CNIL’s 
infringements  deprived  users  of  essential  guarantees 
regarding  processing  operations  that  can  reveal  important 
parts  of  their  private  life,  since  they  are  based  on  a  huge 
amount  of  data,  a  wide  variety  of  services  and  almost 
unlimited  possible  combinations.  Moreover,  the  violations 
were continuous breaches of the GDPR, rather than one-off, 
time-limited infringements. In the opinion of the committee, 
this justified the fine’s extent and publicity.

6.2.1.6.  Germany
On 30 October 2019, the Berlin SA issued a fine of EUR 14.5 
million  against  Deutsche  Wohnen  SE  for  violations  of  the 
GDPR.  During  on-site  inspections,  the  SA  found  that  the 
company  had  unnecessarily  stored  its  tenants’  personal 
data  without  providing  the  possibility  of  removing  the  data. 
Following a second inspection, the SA found that the company 
had not made meaningful progress and imposed the fine.

On  3  December,  the  SA  of  Rhineland-Palatinate  imposed  a 
fine  of  EUR  105,000  on  a  hospital  for  structural  technical 
and  organisational  deficits  in  the  hospital’s  patient  and 
privacy management.

At  the  federal  level,  the  Federal  Commissioner  for  Data 
Protection  and  Freedom  of  Information  (BfDI)  imposed 
two  fines  on  telecommunications  service  providers  on  18 
December 2019:
• 

The  BfDI  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  9,550,000  on  1&1 
Telecom  GmbH,  finding  that  the  company  did  not 

32

33

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019• 

In December, the SA also imposed a fine of EUR 150,000 
on  AEGEAN  MARINE  PETROLEUM  NETWORK 
INC 
(AMPNI) for GDPR violations with regard to personal data 
processing  operations.  In  addition,  the  data  controller 
violated  the  principles  of  transparency  and  of  secure 
processing,  due  to  a  lack  of  appropriate  technical  and 
organizational measures, which resulted in the unlawful 
copying of the entire contents of the company’s server.

6.2.1.8.  Hungary
The  Hungarian  SA  (NAIH)  was  notified  by  a  citizen  that  a 
webpage  operated  by  a  Hungarian  parliamentary  party, 
the  Democratic  Coalition  (DK),  contained  personal  data  of 
the  party’s  supporters  and  was  openly  accessible  via  an 
anonymous hacker forum. 

Following a data breach during which an unknown attacker 
uploaded  the  data  on  the  internet,  DK  failed  to  notify  the 
NAIH or the 6,000 data subjects affected by the breach.

The NAIH ruled that the fact that the concerned data were 
special  categories  of  personal  data  revealing  political 
opinions  was  an  aggravating  circumstance  and  issued  an 
administrative fine of HUF 11 million (EUR 32,000).

Italy

6.2.1.9. 
On 30 April 2019, the Italian SA issued a decision against one 
of Italy’s leading email service providers after the company 
notified  a  data  breach.  On  20  February,  technical  inquiries 
had spotted fraudulent access via a WiFi hotspot, which had 
affected about 1.5 million users.

To  limit  the  data  breach  consequences,  the  affected  users 
trying  to  access  their  accounts  were  instructed  to  change 
their  passwords.  Affected  users  received  emails  with  very 
limited information on unspecified ”unusual activities” in the 
processing systems, without any reference to a data breach 
or any indication to take additional measures.

been  exposed  to,  and  ordered  the  company  to  reissue  the 
communication with a clear description of the type of breach 
and its possible consequences. The SA also mandated that 
the company provide users with specific guidance on what 
measures to take in order to prevent additional risks.

6.2.1.10   Latvia
On  26  August  2019,  the  Director  of  the  Latvian  SA  (DSI) 
imposed  a  financial  penalty  of  EUR  7,000  against  an  online 
retailer for non-compliance with GDPR provisions such as data 
subjects’ right to erasure and non-cooperation with the SA.

The  DSI’s  investigation  was  initiated  after  a  data  subject’s 
complaint that the company had not deleted their personal 
data despite repeated requests.

6.2.1.11   Lithuania
On  14  May  2019,  the  Lithuanian  SA  imposed  its  first 
significant fine for breaches of the GDPR. The sanction was 
imposed  on  financial  services  company  MisterTango  UAB, 
following  a  personal  data  breach  in  the  payment  initiation 
service  system,  which,  among  other  things,  had  not  been 
reported to the SA.

As  the  company  owns  a  branch  in  Latvia  and  therefore 
operates internationally, the Lithuanian SA coordinated with 
its Latvian counterpart to reach a decision.

Following  an  investigation,  the  Lithuanian  SA  ruled  that 
the  company  had  breached  the  GDPR’s  requirements,  as  it 
improperly  processed  personal  data  in  screenshots,  made 
personal  data  publicly  available  and  failed  to  report  the 
personal data breach to the SA.

The  SA  imposed  an  administrative  fine  of  EUR  61,500.  The 
decision was appealed, but the complaint was rejected by the 
court of first instance. At the time of publishing this report, the 
decision was under appeal before the higher court.

The  Italian  SA  considered  the  information  provided  to 
be  insufficient,  in  the  light  of  the  severe  risks  users  had 

6.2.1.12   Malta
In  November  2018,  the  Maltese  SA  was  informed  of  a 

personal data breach on the Lands Authority’s online portal, 
following a report by newspaper The Times of Malta.

The SA’s investigation established that the online application 
platform  available  on  the  Authority’s  portal  lacked  the 
necessary technical and organisational measures to ensure 
secure processing.

On 20 February 2019, the SA found that the Lands Authority 
had  infringed  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  and  issued  an 
administrative fine of EUR 5,000. 

6.2.1.13   Norway
On  19  March  2019,  the  Norwegian  SA 
imposed  an 
administrative fine of NOK 1.6 million, the equivalent of EUR 
170,000, on the Municipality of Bergen.

The  incident  related  to  computer  files  in  the  municipality’s 
computer  system,  containing  the  personal  data  of  over 
35,000 pupils and employees of the municipality’s primary 
schools.  Due  to  insufficient  security  measures,  these  files 
were unprotected and openly accessible for any system user 
regardless of type of authorisation. 

This enabled unauthorised users to access the school’s various 
information  systems  and  personal  data.  The  fact  that  the 
majority of the affected individuals were children and that the 
municipality was warned several times (both by the authority 
and by an internal whistleblower) were considered aggravating 
factors. The municipality did not appeal the decision. 

In 2019, the Norwegian SA also imposed two administrative 
fines on the Municipality of Oslo, which did not appeal their 
decisions.
• 

On 11 October, the Municipality’s Education Agency was 
fined EUR 120,000 for failing to implement appropriate 
security  measures  in  the  data  processing  of  a  mobile 
app.  The  app  was  used  for  communication  between 
school employees, parents and pupils. 
On  18  December,  the  Municipality’s  Nursing  Home 
Agency was fined EUR 49,300 for having stored patient 
data from the city’s nursing homes and health centres 
outside the electronic health record system, from 2007 
to November 2018. 

• 

• 

• 

• 

6.2.1.14   Poland
In  2019,  the  Polish  SA  (UODO)  issued  the  following  fines 
under the GDPR:
• 

imposed 

the  UODO 

its  first  fine, 
On  26  March,  the  UODO 
amounting  to  PLN  943,000  (EUR  220,000),  for  a 
company’s failure to fulfil the information obligation. 
On  20  September,  the  UODO  imposed  a  fine  of  PLN 
2.8  million  (EUR  645,000)  on  Morele.net  for  non-
compliance  with  the  required  technical  means  of  data 
protection,  such  as  the  principle  of  confidentiality,  as 
set out in Article 5.1.f GDPR.
On  31  October, 
first 
administrative fine on a public entity, for an amount of 
PLN 40,000 (over EUR 9,200). The reason for imposing 
the fine was that the mayor of the city did not conclude 
a personal data processing agreement with the entities 
to which he transferred data.
On 6 November, the UODO imposed an administrative 
fine  of  over  PLN  200,000  (over  EUR  46,000)  on 
ClickQuickNow  for,  inter  alia,  obstructing  the  exercise 
of  the  right  to  withdraw  consent  to  the  processing  of 
personal data.

imposed 

its 

• 

• 

• 

 Romania

6.2.1.15 
In 2019, the Romanian SA issued 20 fines for violations of 
the GDPR:
• 

On  26  June,  the  SA  issued  its  first  administrative  fine 
under  the  GDPR,  sanctioning  bank  UniCredit  RON 
613,912  (EUR  130,000)  for  its  failure  to  implement 
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures 
to  ensure  data  protection  in  its  processing.  As  a 
result,  almost  340,000  individuals  were  exposed  to 
disclosure of their personal data between 25 May and 
10 December 2018.
On 2 July, the SA found that hotel World Trade Center 
Bucharest  had  not 
the  necessary 
measures  for  secure  processing,  leading  to  a  leak  of 
clients’  personal  data.  It  fined  the  controller  for  an 
amount of RON 71,028 (EUR 15,000).
On 5 July, the SA fined Legal Company & Tax Hub SRL 
RON  14,173.50  (EUR  3,000),  for  failure  to  implement 
adequate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to 
ensure secure data processing.
In  July,  the  SA  also  imposed  an  administrative  fine  of 

implemented 

34

35

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019RON  11,834.25  (EUR  2,500)  on  Utties  Industries  SRL, 
for  failure  to  comply  with  secure  data  processing  in 
the context of video devices and employees’ personal 
identification numbers. 
On  28  October,  the  SA  finalised  its  investigation  into 
controller  Fan  Courier  Express,  and  found  that  it  did 
not  implement  adequate  technical  and  organizational 
measures to ensure protection of data in its processing. 
As  a  result,  the  company  was  fined  RON  52,325.90 
(EUR 11,000).
On  31  October,  the  SA  imposed  three  administrative 
fines. The first, amounting to EUR 9,000, was imposed 
on Inteligo Media for failing to prove that it had obtained 
explicit  consent  for  data  processing  from  over  4,000 
users.  The  SA  also  imposed  two  fines,  EUR  150,000 
and  EUR  20,000  respectively,  on  Raiffeisen  Bank  and 
Vreau  Credit,  as  it  found  that  the  two  controllers  had 
unlawfully exchanged clients’ personal data in order to 
determine their eligibility for credit.
On 4 November, the SA issued a fine against ING Bank’s 
Bucharest branch for failing to ensure compliance with 
the principles of privacy by design and by default in the 
settlement process of card transactions affecting over 
225,000  customers.  The  sanction  amounted  to  EUR 
80,000.
On  7  November,  air  transport  company  Tarom  was 
fined  RON  95,194  (EUR  20,000),  due  to  failure  to 
implement  the  necessary  measures  to  ensure  secure 
data processing, which resulted in a data breach.
On  18  November,  the  SA  fined  Royal  President  SRL 
RON 11,932.25 (EUR 2,500), for failing to grant the right 
of  access  within  the  time  limit  and  for  unauthorised 
disclosure of personal data.
On  19  November,  Globus  Score  SRL  was  fined  RON 
9,551.80  (EUR  2,000)  for  failing  to  comply  with  the 
SA’s request of information, following the opening of an 
investigation.
On 25 November, the SA fined Telekom Romania Mobile 
Communications RON 9,544.40 (EUR 2,000) for failing 
to  keep  its  customers’  personal  data  accurate,  up-to-
date and confidential.
On  29  November,  an  association  of  owners  was 
fined  RON  2,389.05  (EUR  500)  and  issued  with  two 
reprimands  for  unlawful  accessing  personal  images 
from a video surveillance system.

• 

• 

• 

• 

On  2  December,  the  SA  issued  three  administrative 
fines.  The  Bucharest  branch  of  BNP  Paribas  Personal 
Finance  was  fined  RON  9,508  (EUR  2,000)  after 
complaints  that  it  had  failed  to  delete  personal  data 
within  the  required  time  limit.  The  SA  also  fined 
controllers  Modern  Barber  SRL  and  Nicola  Medical 
Team 17 SRL for failing to comply with the SA’s request 
of 
information.  The  sanctions  amounted  to  RON 
14,329.50 (EUR 3,000) and RON 9,555.40 (EUR 2,000) 
respectively.
On  10  December,  the  SA  fined  Hora  Credit  IFN  SA  a 
total  amount  of  RON  66,901.80  (EUR  15,000).  The 
controller  processed  personal  data  without  verifying 
and  validating  its  accuracy,  and  failed  to  maintain  its 
confidentiality.
On 13 December, company Entirely Shipping & Trading 
SRL  was  fined  a  total  amount  of  RON  47,786  (EUR 
10,000)  for  several  violations  of  the  GDPR,  including 
legitimate interest in the context of video surveillance, 
lack of adequate data protection policies and unlawful 
processing of biometric data.
On 16 December, the SA imposed an administrative fine 
of RON 14,334.30 (EUR 3,000) on SC Enel Energie SA, for 
failing to comply with the data subject’s right to consent 
and object to the processing of their personal data.

6.2.1.16   Spain
On 17 October, the Spanish SA fined the company Vueling a 
total of EUR 30,000 for its website cookie policy.

While  users  accessing  the  website  were  informed  about 
the  general  cookie  policy,  the  company  did  not  provide  a 
management system or cookie configuration panel allowing 
the user to delete cookies in a granular way.
Besides violating the GDPR, these circumstances were also 
an infringement of the Spanish Law on Information Society 
Services  and  Electronic  Commerce,  which  requires  that 
users  give  explicit  consent  to  any  use  of  data  storage  and 
retrieval devices.

6.2.1.17   Sweden
On  22  August  2019,  the  Swedish  SA  issued  its  first  financial 
penalty  under  the  GDPR.  The  SA  fined  a  municipality  SEK 
200,000  (approximately  EUR  20,000) 
facial 
recognition technology to monitor school students’ attendance. 

for  using 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 powers, handle individuals’ complaints, promote awareness 
on data protection law, and cooperate with the other SAs. This 
implies a need for increased budgets and more staff members.

In  the  context  of  the  evaluation  of  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB 
conducted a survey among the SAs about their budget and 
staff.  Most  of  SAs  stated  that  resources  made  available  to 
them are insufficient. 

The EDPB surveyed 
Supervisory Authorities in 
the context of the review of 
the GDPR. While an increase 
in the 2019 budget occurred 
in 27 cases, most SAs 
found available resources 
insufficient.

Based  on 
information  provided  by  SAs  from  30  EEA 
countries, an increase in the budget for 2019 occurred in 27 
cases. The remaining three SAs saw their budget decrease.
According  to  the  same  survey,  a  majority  of  SAs  (22) 
increased their staff numbers in 2019. Five SAs reported that 
the number of their employees did not increase from 2018 
to 2019, while three SAs saw a decrease in staff numbers. 
Differences in personnel requirements across SAs are to be 
expected, given the varied remits of the SAs.

The  EDPB  also  collected  similar  information  upon  request 
from the European Parliament’s LIBE committee. This report 
is available on the EDPB’s website. 

The SA found that the school processed sensitive biometric 
data  unlawfully  and  failed  to  conduct  an  adequate  impact 
assessment, including seeking prior consultation with the SA. 
In  addition,  although  the  processing  was  based  on  consent, 
the SA considered it did not have a valid legal basis given the 
clear imbalance between the data subject and the controller.

the  Swedish  SA 

On  18  December  2019, 
issued  an 
administrative  fine  of  EUR  35,000  EUR  against  Mrkoll.se,  a 
website that publishes the personal data of all Swedes above 
the  age  of  16  (over  8  million  people).  In  Sweden,  websites 
which are granted publishing certificates have a constitutional 
protection for the majority of their activities, meaning that the 
GDPR does not apply under those circumstances.

However,  the  SA  found  that  some  of  the  data  published 
by the website fell under special categories, such as credit 
information  and  criminal  records.  This  required  the  SA’s 
authorisation, which had not been issued.

6.2.1.18   United Kingdom
On  20  December  2019,  the  UK  SA  (ICO)  fined  a  London-
based pharmacy GBP 275,000 (EUR 315,000) for failing to 
ensure the security of special category data.

The  pharmacy,  Doorstep  Dispensaree  Ltd,  which  supplies 
medicines to customers and care homes, left approximately 
500,000 documents in unlocked containers in its premises. 
The  documents  included  names,  addresses,  dates  of  birth, 
NHS  numbers,  medical 
information,  and  prescriptions 
belonging to an unknown number of people.

The  ICO  launched  its  investigation  after  it  was  alerted  to 
the  insecurely  stored  documents  by  the  Medicines  and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, which was carrying 
out its own separate enquiry.

In  addition  to  the  fine,  Doorstep  Dispensaree  was  issued 
with  an  enforcement  notice  due  to  the  significance  of  the 
violations  and  was  ordered  to  improve  its  data  protection 
practices within three months.

SA SURVEY ON BUDGET AND STAFF

6.3. 
Under  the  GDPR,  SAs  have  received  new  harmonised  tasks 
and powers. They wield greater enforcement and investigation

36

37

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019various  arrangements,  depending  on  the  IT  system,  body, 
office or agency for which supervision is taking place, as well 
as the respective EU legal act.

During  its  first  meeting,  the  Committee  elected  Giuseppe 
Busia  from  the  Italian  SA  as  Coordinator  and  Iris  Gnedler 
from  the  German  Federal  SA  as  Deputy  Coordinator  for  a 
term of two years, and adopted its Rules of Procedure.

Border, Asylum and Migration:

Article 62 of Regulation 2018/1725 outlines the Committee’s 
supervision  of  IT  systems,  bodies,  offices,  and  agencies  in 
the following fields:
1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

a.   Schengen Information System (SIS), ensuring 
border control cooperation; 
b.   Entry Exit System (EES), which registers entry 
and exit data and refusal of entry data of third-
country nationals crossing the external borders of 
the Schengen States;
c.   European Travel Information and Authorization 
System (ETIAS), which tracks visitors from 
countries who do not need a visa to enter the 
Schengen Zone; 
d.   Visa Information System (VIS), connecting 
consulates in non-EU countries and all external 
border-crossing points of Schengen States.

Coordinated Supervision 

Committee of the large-scale EU 
Information Systems and of EU 
bodies, offices and agencies

In October 2018, Regulation 2018/1725 on the protection of personal 

data processed by EU institutions and bodies was adopted. 

(EDPS)  and 

In accordance with Article 62 of this regulation, the European 
Data  Protection  Supervisor 
the  national 
Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs)  shall  cooperate  actively  to 
ensure  effective  supervision  of  large-scale  IT  systems  and 
of  EU  bodies,  offices  and  agencies.    For  this  purpose,  the 
EDPS and SAs shall meet at least twice per year within the 
framework  of  the  EDPB.  Additionally,  several  legal  acts  on 
large-scale IT systems and EU agencies refer to this model of 
coordinated supervision. 

EEA SAs and the EDPS as well as SAs from non-EU Schengen 
Member States, where foreseen under EU law. 

The  Committee’s  tasks  include,  among  others,  supporting 
SAs  in  carrying  out  audits  and  inspections,  working  on 
the  interpretation  or  application  of  the  relevant  EU  legal 
act,  studying  problems  within  the  exercise  of  independent 
supervision  or  within  the  exercise  of  data  subject  rights, 
drawing  up  harmonised  proposals 
for  solutions,  and 
promoting awareness of data protection rights.

In December 2019, the Coordinated Supervision Committee 
was formally established within the EDPB. It brings together 

Participation  in  the  Committee  meetings  can  occur  under 

2.  Police and Justice Cooperation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 

a.   SIS, which also ensures law enforcement 
cooperation;
b.   European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO);
c.   Eurojust, the agency responsible for judicial 
cooperation in criminal matters among EU Member 
States;
d.   European Criminal Records Information System 
on third-country nationals (ECRIS-TCN), which 
allows Member States’ authorities to identify 
which other Member States hold criminal records 
on third-country nationals or stateless persons 
being checked.  

Internal Market: IMI system, which allows exchange of 
information between public authorities involved in the 
practical implementation of EU law.

In  2019,  the  Committee  was  in  charge  of  the  coordinated 
supervision of the IMI system and Eurojust. In 2020, this will 
be extended to include EPPO. In the future, all coordinated 
supervision of large EU information systems, bodies, offices 
and agencies will gradually be moved to the Committee.
 

38

39

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Advisory role to the European Commission

8.1.2  
The EDPB will continue to advise the European Commission 
on  issues  such  as  cross-border  e-Evidence  data  access 
requests, the revision or adoption of adequacy decisions for 
data  transfers  to  third  countries  and  any  possible  revision 
of the EU-Canada Passenger Name Record (PNR) agreement.

To  respond  to  this  increased  level  of  interest  and  address 
stakeholder  concerns  about  the  application  of  the  GDPR, 
the  EDPB  has  been  actively  engaging  with  all  relevant 
parties,  through  workshops,  surveys  and 
informational 
events. In 2020, the EDPB will deepen existing stakeholder 
relationships and develop new ones. 

Consistency findings

 8.1.3  
In  cross-border  cases  where  consensus  between  the  Lead 
SA  and  Concerned  SAs  within  the  relevant  cooperation 
procedure cannot be reached, the EDPB will act as a dispute 
resolution body and issue binding decisions. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  will  continue  to  deliver  Consistency 
Opinions to SAs in line with Article 64 GDPR. These include 
any  relevant  draft  decision  from  competent  SAs  on  issues 
such as cross-border data transfers, Binding Corporate Rules 
and standard or ad-hoc contractual clauses.

The EDPB will also deliver accreditation requirements for code 
of conduct monitoring bodies, as well as certification bodies to 
enable the finalisation of the national legal framework and the 
use of these accountability tools in practice.

COMMUNICATIONS 

8.2. 
The EDPB aims to foster full transparency around its work 
and  activities  among  media,  the  public  and  stakeholders 
within the public and private sectors. 

2019  saw  an  even  greater  public  focus  on  data  protection 
and  privacy  issues.  The  first  full  year  of  the  GDPR  being 
in  application  generated  considerable  discussion  among 
stakeholders  and  citizens  around  the  importance  of  data 
subject rights. It also increased public awareness of issues such 
as consent, legitimate interest and lawful processing of data.

The EDPB will continue 
issuing Guidelines to ensure 
consistent interpretation 
of the GDPR, advise the 
European Commission and 
deliver Consistency Opinions 
to Supervisory Authorities. 

The EDPB Members, including its Chair and Deputy Chairs, 
are  fully  committed  to  continuing  their  participation  in 
relevant conferences and speaking engagements.

The EDPB Secretariat will continue to ensure a harmonised 
communication  approach.  This  includes  continuing  to  drive 
public  engagement  with  the  EDPB’s  activities  through  its 
social  media  presence,  as  well  as  enhancing  cooperation 
with SAs. To this end, the EDPB will maintain and strengthen 
the network of SAs’ press and communications officers.

Main objectives for 2020

LEGAL WORK PLAN

8.1. 
At  the  beginning  of  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  a  two-year  work 
programme  for  2019-2020.  This  is  based  on  the  priorities  set 
by all stakeholders, including the EU legislator, as identified by 
the EDPB members. Three areas of interest were identified, as 
outlined below. 

By  the  end  of  2019,  halfway  through  its  work  plan,  the  EDPB 
made  significant  progress  across  its  stated  objectives  and  is 
advancing towards completing them in its second working year.

Guidance

8.1.1  
The EDPB will continue issuing Guidelines to ensure consistent 
interpretation of the GDPR across the EU, enabling stakeholders 
and Supervisory Authorities (SAs) to apply the GDPR’s provisions 
in a harmonised manner. 

In  2019,  the  EDPB  issued  guidance  related  to  the  provision  of 
online services to data subjects, as well as video devices, search 
engine delisting and data protection by design and by default.

In  2020,  the  EDPB  will  aim  to  provide  guidance  on  data 
controllers and processors, data subject rights and the concept 
of  legitimate  interest.  It  will  also  intensify  its  work  in  the 
context of advanced technologies, such as connected vehicles, 
blockchain, artificial intelligence, and digital assistants.

In addition to the work outlined in the work plan, in 2020, 
the EDPB is to provide guidance on the implications for data 
protection in the context of the fight against COVID-19, both 
on its own initiative and upon consultation by the European 
Commission.

40

41

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 20199

Annexes

9.1  

GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED IN 2019

impact assessment (Article 35.4 GDPR)

1.  Recommendation 01/2019 on the draft list of the 
European Data Protection Supervisor regarding the 
processing operations subject to the requirement of 
a data protection impact assessment (Article 39.4 of 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725)

2.  Guidelines  1/2019  on  Codes  of  Conduct  and 
Monitoring  Bodies  under  Regulation  2016/679  - 
version adopted after public consultation

3.  Guidelines  2/2019  on  the  processing  of  personal 
data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the 
provision of online services to data subjects – version 
adopted after public consultation

4.  Guidelines 3/2019 on processing of personal data 
through video devices – version adopted after public 
consultation

5.  Guidelines  4/2019  on  Article  25  Data  Protection 
by  Design  and  by  Default  –  version  for  public 
consultation

6.  Guidelines 5/2019 on the criteria of the Right to be 
Forgotten  in  the  search  engines  cases  under  the 
GDPR (part 1) – version for public consultation

9.2  

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 2019

•  Opinion 1/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Principality  of 
Liechtenstein  regarding  the  processing  operations 
subject  to  the  requirement  of  a  data  protection 

•  Opinion 2/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Norway  regarding  the 
processing operations subject to the requirement of 
a data protection impact assessment (Article 35.4 
GDPR)

•  Opinion  4/2019  on  the  draft  Administrative 
Arrangement  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data 
between European Economic Area (“EEA”) Financial 
Supervisory  Authorities  and  non-EEA  Financial 
Supervisory Authorities
•  Draft administrative arrangement for the transfer 

of personal data

•  Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy 
Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding the 
competence, tasks and powers of data protection 
authorities

•  Opinion 6/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Spain  regarding  the 
processing operations subject to the requirement of 
a data protection impact assessment (Article 35.4 
GDPR)

•  Opinion 7/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Iceland  regarding  the 
processing operations subject to the requirement of 
a data protection impact assessment (Article 35.4 
GDPR)

•  Opinion 8/2019 on the competence of a supervisory 

authority in case of a change in circumstances relating 
to the main or single establishment

•  Opinion  9/2019  on  the  Austrian  data  protection 
supervisory 
accreditation 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body 
pursuant to article 41 GDPR

authority 

draft 

•  Opinion 10/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Cyprus  regarding  the 
processing operations subject to the requirement of 
a data protection impact assessment (Article 35(4) 
GDPR)

•  Opinion 11/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Czech  Republic 
regarding the processing operations exempt from the 
requirement of a data protection impact assessment 
(Article 35(5) GDPR)

•  Opinion 12/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Spain  regarding  the 
processing operations exempt from the requirement 
of a data protection impact assessment (Article 35(5) 
GDPR)

•  Opinion 13/2019 on the draft list of the competent 
supervisory  authority  of  France  regarding  the 
processing operations exempt from the requirement 
of a data protection impact assessment (Article 35(5) 
GDPR)

•  Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual 
Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article 28(8) GDPR)
•  DK  SA  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  for  the 

•  Opinion  16/2019  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Belgian Supervisory Authority regarding the Binding 
Corporate Rules of ExxonMobil Corporation

•  Opinion  17/2019  on  the  UK  data  protection 
accreditation 
supervisory 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body 
pursuant to article 41 GDPR

authority 

draft 

9.3.  

JOINT OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 2019

•  EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2019 on the processing 
of  patients’  data  and  the  role  of  the  European 
Commission  within  the  eHealth  Digital  Service 
Infrastructure (eHDSI)

9.4.  

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION

•  Second Annual Joint Review report on the EU-US 

Privacy Shield 

•  Third  Annual  Joint  Review  report  on  the  EU-US 

Privacy Shield 

•  Opinion 3/2019 on the interplay between the Clinical 

Trials Regulation (CTR) and the GDPR 

•  Statement 3/2019 on an ePrivacy regulation 
•  Contribution to the draft second additional protocol 
to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime 
(Budapest Convention) 

9.5.  
• 

OTHER DOCUMENTS

Information note on data transfers under the GDPR in 
the event of a no-deal Brexit 

purposes of compliance with art. 28 GDPR

•  Statement 1/2019 on the US Foreign Account Tax 

•  Opinion  15/2019  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  the  United 
Kingdom regarding the Binding Corporate Rules of 
Equinix Inc.

Compliance Act (FATCA)

•  EDPB LIBE report on the implementation of GDPR
•  EDPB  pleading  before  the  CJEU  in  Case  C-311/18 

(Facebook Ireland and Schrems)

42

43

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 20199.6.  

LIST OF EXPERT SUBGROUPS WITH SCOPE OF MANDATE

NAME OF SUBGROUP 

SCOPE OF MANDATE

NAME OF SUBGROUP 

SCOPE OF MANDATE 

Borders, Travel & Law Enforcement (BTLE)
Expert Subgroup

Compliance, e-Government and Health Expert Subgroup 

Cooperation Expert Subgroup

Coordinators Expert Subgroup 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

Law enforcement directive 
Cross-border requests for e-evidence 
Adequacy Decisions, access to transferred data by law 
enforcement and national intelligence authorities in 
third countries (e.g. EU-US Privacy Shield) 
Passenger Name Records (PNR) 
Border controls 
Preparation of the coordinated supervision under Art. 
62 1725/2018  

Code of conduct, certification and accreditation 
Close cooperation on DPIA with the Technology ESG 
focusing on the perspective of their mandates 
Close cooperation on privacy by design and by default 
with the Technology ESG focusing on the perspective 
of their mandates 
Compliance with public law and eGovernment 
Health 

General focus on procedures of the GDPR 
Guidance on procedural questions 
International mutual assistance and other cooperation 
tools to enforce the GDPR outside the EU (Art. 50 
GDPR) 

General coordination between the Expert Subgroup 
Coordinators 
Coordination on the annual Expert Subgroup working 
plan 

Enforcement Expert Subgroup 

Financial Matters Expert Subgroup 

International Transfers Expert Subgroup 

•  Mapping/analysing the need for additional clarifications 

or guidance, based on practical experiences with the 
application of Chapters VI, VII and VIII GDPR

•  Mapping/analysing possible updates of existing 

Cooperation subgroup tools

•  Monitoring of investigation activities 
• 
Practical questions on investigations 
Guidance on the practical application of Chapter VII 
• 
GDPR including exchanges on concrete cases
Guidance on the application of Chapter VIII GDPR 
together with the Fining TF 

• 

• 

Application of data protection principles in the financial 
sector (e.g. automatic exchange of personal data for 
tax purposes; impact of FATCA on the protection of 
personal data; interplay between Second Payment 
Services Directive and GDPR)

Guidance on Chapter V (International transfer tools and 
policy issues), more specifically: 
• 
• 

Review European Commission Adequacy decisions 
Guidelines on Art. 46 GDPR and review of 
administrative arrangements between public 
authorities and bodies (e.g. ESMA) 
Codes of conduct and certification as transfer tools 
Art. 48 GDPR together with BTLE ESG 
Art. 50 GDPR together with Cooperation ESG 
Guidelines on territorial scope and the interplay with 
Chapter V of the GDPR - interaction with Key Provisions 
ESG 
Exchange of information on review of BCRs and ad hoc 
contractual clauses according to Art. 64 GDPR 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

 
 
 

44

45

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019NAME OF SUBGROUP 

IT Users Expert Subgroup 

Key Provisions Expert Subgroup 

Social Media Expert Subgroup

SCOPE OF MANDATE 

NAME OF SUBGROUP 

SCOPE OF MANDATE  

Strategic Advisory Expert Subgroup 

Taskforce on Administrative Fines 

Technology Expert Subgroup 

• 

• 

Guidance on strategic questions affecting the whole 
EDPB (including the discussion on the work plans of 
the ESGs) 
Clarification of questions that could not be resolved in 
the ESG 

Development of Guidelines on the harmonisation of the 
calculation of fines 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

Technology, innovation, information security, 
confidentiality of communication in general 
ePrivacy, encryption 
DPIA and data breach notifications 
Emerging technologies, innovation and other 
challenges related to privacy: reflecting on data 
protection risks of future technological developments 
Providing input on technology matters relevant to 
other ESGs

Developing and testing IT tools used by the EDPB with a 
practical focus: 
• 
• 
• 

Collecting feedback on the IT system from users
Adapting the systems and manuals 
Discussing other business needs including tele- and 
videoconference systems

 
Guidance on core concepts and principles of the GDPR, 
including Chapters I (e.g. scope, definitions like LSA and 
large scale processing) and II (main principles); Chapters 
III (e.g. rights of individuals, transparency), IV (e.g. 
DPO – shared competences with Compliance Tools ESG, 
Enforcement ESG and Technology ESG) and IX 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Analyzing social media services, conceived as online 
platforms that focus on enabling the development of 
networks and communities of users, among which 
information and content is shared and whereby 
additional functions provided by social media services 
include targeting, personalisation, application 
integration, social plug-ins, user authentication, 
analytics and publishing 
Analysing established and emerging functions offered 
by social media, including the underlying processing 
activities and corresponding risks for the rights and 
freedoms of individuals 
Developing guidance, recommendations and best 
practices in relation to both the offer and use of social 
media functions, in particular for economic or political 
reasons. 
Providing assistance to other subgroups, in particular 
by proposing strategic priorities in terms of (a) 
supervision and (b) the development of new EDPB 
guidance or updating of existing WP29 guidance 

46

47

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Contact details 

Postal address: 

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Office address: 

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

Email: 

edpb@edpb.europa.eu

@eu_edpb

eu-edpb

edpb.europa.eu

48

EDPB Annual Report 2019