EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1

EDPB Annual Report 2019European Data Protection Board

2019 Annual Report Executive Summary

WORKING TOGETHER 
FOR STRONGER RIGHTS

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

1

EDPB Annual Report 2019Foreword

The European Data Protection Board’s (EDPB) mission is to 
ensure  the  consistent  application  of  data  protection  rules 
across the European Economic Area (EEA). This is enshrined 
in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has 
opened  the  door  to  a  new  era  of  respect  for  data  subject 
rights. 

The GDPR is not just valuable insofar as it has established 
a  harmonised  legal  framework  for  data  protection  across 
the  EEA  –  one  that  has  expanded  and  strengthened 
national  data  protection  authorities’  powers.  The  GDPR’s 
entry into force has also encouraged greater awareness of 
data protection rights among individuals and organizations 
alike. This is more important than ever, given the increasing 
presence  of  data-dependent  technologies  in  almost  every 
facet of our lives. 

As  we  approach  the  two-year  anniversary  of  the  GDPR’s 
entry into application, I am convinced that the cooperation 
between EEA DPAs will result in the emergence of a common 
data  protection  culture.  Some  challenges  remain,  but  the 
EDPB  is  working  on  solutions  to  overcome  these  and  to 
make sure that the key cooperation procedure concepts are 
applied consistently.

As the EDPB, we contribute to the consistent interpretation 
of the GDPR by adopting Guidelines and Opinions. In 2019, 

we adopted five new Guidelines on topics such as privacy by 
design and default, and the right to be forgotten, as well as 
two Guidelines in their final, post-consultation versions. We 
also adopted 16 Consistency Opinions covering, among other 
topics,  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessments,  accreditation 
requirements for code of conduct monitoring bodies, and the 
interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR.

This  was  possible  thanks  to  the  consistent  efforts  of  all 
actors within the EDPB, as well as the increased input and 
engagement  from  our  stakeholders  via  events,  workshops 
and surveys. 

As  we  look  forward  to  the  coming  year,  we  feel  ready 
to  tackle  the  outstanding  items  in  our  two-year  working 
programme. We will continue to adopt guidance, to promote 
the cooperation on cross-border enforcement, and to advise 
the EU legislator on data protection issues.

More and more countries outside the EU are adopting data 
protection  legislation.  In  doing  so,  they  often  base  their 
legislation on the fundamental principles of the GDPR. I am 
confident  that,  in  a  not  too  distant  future,  we  will  see  the 
protection  of  data  subject  rights  become  a  global  norm. 
This will lay the foundation for more secure data flows and 
increased transparency, as well as improved trust in the rule 
of law.

Andrea Jelinek
Chair of the European Data Protection Board

2

EDPB Annual Report 2019As  part  of  its  support  activities,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  has 
developed  IT  solutions  to  enable  effective  and  secure 
communication  between  the  EDPB  members,  including  the 
Internal Market Information System (IMI). 

In 2019, the EDPB Secretariat organised 11 plenary meetings 
and  90  expert  subgroup  meetings.  The  different  expert 
subgroups  focus  on  specific  areas  of  data  protection  and 
assist the EDPB in performing its tasks.

In  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  16  Consistency  Opinions.  Eight 
of  these  concerned  the  draft  lists  submitted  by  SAs  on 
processing  operations  requiring  a  DPIA,  as  well  as  those 
exempt from it. The remaining Opinions regarded transfers 
of  personal  data  between  EEA  and  non-EEA  Financial  SAs 
and  the  interplay  between  the  ePrivacy  Directive  and  the 
GDPR,  as  well  as  clarifying  Standard  Contractual  Clauses 
(SCCs), Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs), SAs’ competences, 
and Accreditation Criteria for monitoring bodies.

Finally,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  assists  the  Chair  in  preparing 
for and presiding over the plenary meetings, as well with her 
speaking engagements. 

EDPB ACTIVITIES IN 2019
General Guidance

2.3.  
2.3.1.  
In  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  five  new  Guidelines  aimed 
at  clarifying  the  range  of  provisions  under  the  GDPR. 
The  adopted  Guidelines  addressed  codes  of  conduct  and 
monitoring bodies at a national and European level, as well 
as clarifying the processing of personal data under a range 
of  circumstances,  namely  during  the  provision  of  online 
services,  through  video  devices,  on  the  principles  of  Data 
Protection by Design & Default, and related to the Right to 
be Forgotten by search engines. 

The EDPB also acts as a dispute resolution body and issues 
binding decisions. Since 25 May 2018, however, no dispute 
resolutions have been initiated. This suggests that, to date, 
SAs have been able to reach consensus on all current cross-
border cases.

Legislative consultation

2.3.3.  
The  EDPB  advises  the  European  Commission  on  any  issue 
related  to  the  protection  of  personal  data,  including  the 
adequacy  of  the  level  of  data  protection  in  third  countries 
or  international  organisations.  In  2019,  the  EDPB  issued 
reports on the Second and Third Annual Review of the EU-
U.S.  Privacy  Shield  adequacy  decision,  conducted  by  the 
European Commission to assess its robustness and practical 
implementation. 

In addition, three Guidelines adopted in 2018 were approved by 
the EDPB in their final form in 2019, following public consultations. 
These  Guidelines  clarify  accreditation  and  certification  criteria 
and the territorial scope outlined in the GDPR. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  issued  an  Opinion  on  the  interplay 
between the Clinical Trials Regulation (CTR) and the GDPR, 
requested  by  the  European  Commission’s  Directorate-
General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE). 

The  EDPB  also  issued  a  recommendation  on  the  draft  list 
submitted  by  the  EDPS  on  processing  operations  which 
require a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA).

Consistency Opinions

2.3.2.  
To guarantee the consistent application of the GDPR in cases 
with cross-border implications, the EDPB issues Consistency 
Opinions. The competent SA has to take utmost account of 
the opinion. 

The  EDPB  is  also  subject  to  Article  42  of  Regulation 
2018/1725 on legislative consultation. This allows the EDPS 
and the EDPB to coordinate their work with a view to issuing 
a Joint Opinion. In 2019, the EDPB and the EDPS adopted a 
Joint Opinion concerning the data protection aspects of the 
eHealth Digital Service Infrastructure. This Opinion was also 
issued following DG SANTE’s request. 

2019 – an overview

RULES OF PROCEDURE

2.1.  
The Rules of Procedure (RoP), which outline the EDPB’s most 
important  operational  rules,  were  adopted  during  the  first 
plenary meeting on 25 May 2018. 

In 2019, the EDPB adopted revised wording for Articles 8, 10, 22 
and 24 of its RoP, aimed at clarifying requirements to be granted 
observer status, procedures following the adoption of Opinions, 
and voting procedures during EDPB’s plenary meetings.

The EDPB also adopted a new Article 37 RoP establishing a 
Coordinated  Supervision  Committee  in  the  context  of  data 
processing by large information systems in use within the EU 
institutions, as well as by EU bodies, offices and agencies. 

In  2019,  the  Committee  was  in  charge  of  the  coordinated 
supervision  of  the  IMI  system  and  Eurojust.  In  2020,  this 
will be extended to include the European Public Prosecutor 
Office  (EPPO).  In  the  future,  all  coordinated  supervision  of 
large EU information systems, bodies, offices and agencies 
will gradually be moved to the Committee. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

2.2.  
The EDPB Secretariat ensures that all of the EDPB’s activities 
comply  with  the  legal  framework  applicable  to  the  EDPB 
as  an  EU  body  and  with  its  RoP.  It  is  the  main  drafter  for 
Consistency  Opinions  and  Decisions,  and  serves  as  an 
institutional memory, ensuring documents’ consistency over 
time. The role of the EDPB Secretariat is also to facilitate the 
EDPB’s  fair  and  effective  decision-making  and  to  act  as  a 
gateway for clear and consistent communication.

3

4

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019The EDPB also adopted, on its own initiative, a statement on the 
draft ePrivacy Regulation and issued a contribution on the data 
protection aspects of the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime.   

2.3.4.   Other documents
In  2019,  the  EDPB  adopted  two  statements.  The  first  one 
concerned  the  US  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance  Act 
(FATCA),  following  the  European  Parliament’s  resolution  on 
the adverse effects of the FATCA on EU citizens. The second 
one regarded use of personal data in the course of political 
campaigns, in light of the 2019 European Parliament elections 
and other elections taking place across the EU and beyond.

In 2019, the EDPB organised three such events focused on 
the  revised  Payments  Services  Directive  (PSD2),  on  the 
concepts and responsibilities of controllers and processors, 
and on data subject rights.

As part of the annual review of the EDPB activities – established 
by  Article  71.2  GDPR  –  the  EDPB  conducted  a  stakeholder 
survey for the second year in a row. The survey, which focused 
on the content and adoption process of the EDPB’s Guidelines, 
aimed  to  understand  to  what  extent  stakeholders  find  the 
guidelines  helpful  and  practical  in  interpreting  the  GDPR’s 
provisions.  

To  address  issues  of  data  protection  in  the  event  of  a  no-
deal  Brexit,  the  EDPB  adopted  two  information  notes, 
on data transfers from the EEA to the UK under the GDPR, 
and  on  BCRs  for  companies  having  the  UK  Information 
Commissioner’s Office as Lead SA.

Following  a  request  made  by  the  European  Parliament’s 
Committee  on  Civil  Liberties,  Justice  and  Home  Affairs 
Committee  (LIBE),  the  EDPB  issued  the LIBE  report  on  the 
implementation  of  GDPR,  providing  an  overview  of  the 
implementation and enforcement of the GDPR covering both 
the cooperation mechanism and the consistency findings.

On 9 July 2019, the EDPB Chair pleaded before the Court of 
Justice of the European Union, which had requested an oral 
pleading on Case C-311/18 (Facebook Ireland and Schrems). 

CONSULTATIONS

2.4.  
Following the preliminary adoption of Guidelines, the EDPB 
organises  public  consultations  to  allow  stakeholders  and 
citizens to share their views and provide additional input. In 
2019, the EDPB launched five such consultations, concerning 
its  Guidelines  on  Codes  of  Conduct,  Certification  Criteria, 
processing  of  personal  data  in  online  services  and  video 
devices,  Data  Protection  by  Design  and  Default,  and  the 
Right to be Forgotten.

The EDPB organises stakeholder events to gather views on 
key issues and to inform the development of future guidance. 

Respondents included organisations and individual companies 
from  the  financial,  banking  and  insurance  sectors,  wholesale 
and  retail  trade,  information  technologies,  human  health  and 
social  work  activities  and  fundamental  rights.  The  majority 
of  respondents  were  based  in  Europe,  and  over  60  percent 
represented small entities.

64  percent  of  stakeholders  who  participated  in  the  survey 
found the Guidelines to be useful, while 46 percent considered 
them  to  be  sufficiently  pragmatic.  Nearly  80  percent  found 
the Guidelines easily accessible; this was up from 64 percent 
in  2018.  Other  positive  feedback  referenced  the  Guidelines’ 
real-life  examples  and  wide  applicability  preventing  national 
fragmentation. 

Respondents encouraged further interpretative work to clarify, 
among  other  things,  the  relationship  between  controller  and 
processor and the legal basis of legitimate interest. Compliance 
with the GDPR for SMEs remains a challenge, but stakeholders 
noted that the EDPB’s Guidelines are a useful tool in supporting 
its application. Overall, 40 percent of stakeholders classified the 
consultative process as ranging from appropriate to satisfying.

2.5.  
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES ACTIVITIES IN 2019
Under the GDPR, the European Economic Area (EEA) Member 
States’ SAs cooperate closely to ensure that individuals’ data 
protection rights are protected consistently across the EEA. 
One task for the SAs is to assist one another and coordinate 
decision-making in cross-border data protection cases.

investigations. Since 25 May 2018, 2,542 mutual assistance 
procedures  have  been  triggered.  Of  these  procedures,  the 
overwhelming  majority  (2,427)  were  informal  consultation 
procedures, while 115 were formal requests.

In 2019, no joint operations were carried out by SAs.

Under  the  GDPR,  national  SAs  have  different  corrective 
measures at their disposal. In 2019, SAs identified a number 
of  violations  of  the  GDPR  and  exercised  their  corrective 
powers accordingly. 

Violations  included  failure  to  implement  provisions  such 
as  privacy  by  default  and  design,  right  to  access  or  right  to 
erasure. Many cases highlighted a lack of proper technical and 
organisational measures for ensuring data protection, which 
led  to  data  breaches.    Several  significant  incidents  involved 
the processing of special categories of data, such as political 
opinions,  credit  information  or  biometric  data.  The  entities 
fined were from both the private and the public sector.

implementing 

During the reporting period, SAs identified certain challenges 
when 
the  cooperation  and  consistency 
mechanism. In particular, the patchwork of national procedural 
laws  was  found  to  have  an  impact  on  the  cooperation 
in  complaint  handling 
mechanism,  due 
procedures,  position  of  the  parties 
in  the  proceedings, 
admissibility criteria, duration of proceedings, deadlines, etc. 

to  differences 

In  addition,  SAs’  effective  application  of  the  powers  and 
tasks attributed to them by the GDPR depends largely on the 
resources  they  have  available.  This  applies  in  particular  to 
the One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism, the success of which 
is  contingent  on  the  time  and  effort  SAs  can  dedicate  to 
individual cases and cooperation. 

Despite  these  challenges,  the  EDPB  is  convinced  that  the 
cooperation  between  SAs  will  result  in  a  common  data 
protection culture and consistent monitoring practices. One 
single set of rules has proved to be advantageous for data 
controllers  and  processors  within  the  EEA,  having  brought 
greater legal certainty. It has also benefitted individuals who 
have seen their data subject rights reinforced.  

Since  the  entry  into  application  of  the  GDPR,  there  have 
been  807  cross-border  cooperation  procedures  in  the  IMI 
system, out of which 585 cases were started in 2019. Of these 
cross-border  cooperation  procedures,  425  resulted  from  a 
complaint, while the remaining originated from other sources, 
such as investigations, legal obligations or media reports.

(CSAs).  The  LSA 

The  OSS  mechanism  demands  cooperation  between  the 
Lead  Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  and  the  Concerned 
Supervisory  Authorities 
the 
investigation and plays a key role in the process of reaching 
consensus between the CSAs, in addition to working to reach 
a coordinated decision with regard to the data controller or 
processor.  By  the  end  of  2019,  142  OSS  procedures  were 
initiated by SAs, 79 of which resulted in a final decision.  

leads 

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 

5

6

EDPB Annual Report 2019EDPB Annual Report 2019Main objectives for 2020

By the end of 2019, halfway through its work plan, the EDPB 
had  made  significant  progress  across  its  stated  objectives 
and  is  advancing  towards  completing  them  in  its  second 
working year. 

In  2020,  the  EDPB  will  aim  to  provide  guidance  on  data 
controllers and processors, data subject rights and the concept 
of  legitimate  interest.  It  will  also  intensify  its  work  in  the 
context of advanced technologies, such as connected vehicles, 
blockchain, artificial intelligence, and digital assistants. 

The EDPB will continue to advise the European Commission 
on  issues  such  as  cross-border  e-Evidence  data  access 
requests, the revision or adoption of adequacy decisions for 
data transfers to third countries, and any possible revision 
of the EU-Canada Passenger Name Record (PNR) agreement.  

data protection in the context of the fight against COVID-19, 
both  at  its  own  initiative  and  upon  consultation  by  the 
European Commission.

is  also  committed 

The  EDPB 
to  deepening  existing 
stakeholder  relationships  and  developing  new  ones.  The 
EDPB  Members,  as  well  as  the  EDPB  Chair  and  Deputy 
Chairs,  will  continue  participating  in  relevant  conferences 
and speaking engagements. 

The EDPB Secretariat will continue to ensure a harmonised 
communication  approach.  This  includes  continuing  to  drive 
public  engagement  with  the  EDPB’s  activities  through  its 
social  media  presence,  as  well  as  enhancing  cooperation 
with SAs. To this end, the EDPB will maintain and strengthen 
the network of SAs’ press and communications officers.

In addition to the work outlined in the work plan, in 2020, 
the  EDPB  is  to  provide  guidance  on  the  implications  for 

7

EDPB Annual Report 2019Contact details 

Postal address: 

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Office address: 

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

Email: 

edpb@edpb.europa.eu

@eu_edpb

eu-edpb

edpb.europa.eu

8

EDPB Annual Report 2019