Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of March 24, 2022
 
 03/25/2022
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
DSK comments on research data and Facebook fan pages The Conference of the Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities (DSK) passed a resolution at its 103rd conference to underline that and how scientific research and data protection are compatible. Professor Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and in 2022 Chairman of the DSK, emphasizes that the General Data Protection Regulation actually favors research in many places: "We need scientific research that is based on our European values. The DSK therefore strongly supports the promotion and research of methods to process research data in such a way that the personal rights of citizens are protected as best as possible. The DSK supports the consideration of creating a general research data law. We are available to advise on these and other measures.” The DSK has also decided to inform the highest federal and state authorities under its supervision about the brief report by the DSK Task Force on Facebook fan pages. She wants the authorities to deactivate her fan pages if those responsible cannot prove compliance with data protection law. Professor Kelber said: “Facebook fan pages cannot currently be operated in compliance with data protection. The task force deployed by the DSK also came to the same conclusion. Authorities have a special responsibility here and serve as a role model for the citizens." The documents on the DSK and the brief report of the TaskForce fan pages can be found shortly on the homepage of the data protection conference: www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de Contact: The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 153 53117 Bonn E-Mail: pressestelle (at) bfdi.bund.de
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Decision of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
 
 To the task force Facebook fan pages, status: 03/23/2022
 489KB
 
 Decision of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
 
 Information from the DSK – data protection-compliant online trading via guest access, as of March 24th, 2022
 497KB
 
 Resolution of the Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities of March 23, 2022
 
 Parliamentary committees of inquiry and deletion moratoriums: Data protection through clear guidelines and processing restrictions for authorities, as of March 23, 2022
 451KB
 
 Resolution of the 103rd Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities of March 23, 2022
 
 Scientific research - of course with data protection, status: 23.03.2022
 309KB
 