THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

October 5, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 With the LfDI tool DS-GVO.clever

create small businesses, traders and

Craft businesses quickly and easily their

Privacy Policy

 

Formulating correct data protection declarations falls

particularly difficult for smaller companies and associations,

since they do not have the resources, external

Turn on the data protection officer or use your own

legal department to work.

 

The LfDI tool DS-GVO.clever helps concretely, simply and

effective. So far it has mainly been an aid for

Societies; now even small businesses can

Tradesmen and craft businesses use the tool

and create their data protection notices within a short time.

It's not just about data processing on the

company website, but also, among other things, about the

Processing of customer and employee data. Also

in the new version you will find numerous information

Buttons and references to further assistance from the LfDI, such as

Explanatory videos or practical guides.

 

- 2 -

The tool is available on the website of the state commissioner

ready.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: “The General Data Protection Regulation

does not distinguish between corporations and small businesses.

We help smaller businesses to make them very easy

can create working privacy notices themselves.”

 

Companies are and will remain responsible for their

Data processing - with "DS-GVO.clever" you can do yours

Meet information obligations in a simple way.

Craft shops and other smaller businesses can

You are also welcome to contact the state representative if

they need further support.

 

The BIDIB training center also offers online

Training courses so that interested parties can familiarize themselves with "DS-GVO.clever"

can familiarize.

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-

events/

 

 

 

DS-GVO.clever:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ds-

gvo.clever/

