Press release: International Day of General Access to Information on September 28, 2022 - Further development of the Saarland Freedom of Information Act into a real transparency law
                        
                            09/28/2022
                          
                      


Freedom of Information



press release


On the International Day of General Access to Information on September 28, 2022, the State Commissioner for Freedom of Information Monika Grethel recalled the importance of the right to access information and appealed to the state government to initiate improvements in this area. First and foremost, the Saarland Freedom of Information Act should be further developed into a modern transparency law. "Access to information and the transparency of state action are essential for a modern, democratic and pluralistic society. The fact that citizens are informed is a basic prerequisite for their participation in political and state decision-making processes. We urgently need a modern freedom of information law in Saarland, the comprehensively guarantees access to official information and also provides for an obligation to proactively publish information and the creation of a transparency portal." The Saarland Freedom of Information Act, which has been in force since 2006, has remained largely unchanged since then and does not meet the expectations of a modern and effective freedom of information law. This is also reflected in a transparency ranking created by the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V., in which Saarland only takes 12th place. Other federal states such as Hamburg, Rhineland-Palatinate, Thuringia and Saxony already have transparency laws. In its coalition agreement, the Federal Government has also taken up the cause of creating a transparency law and has announced that it will present a corresponding key issues paper before the end of this year. Since the Saarland Freedom of Information Act is based on the regulations at federal level and refers to them, now would be a good time to amend the freedom of information law and to implement the announcement contained in the state government's program to create a transparency register. Further information: https://www.datenschutz.saarland.de Press contact: Telephone 0681 94781 - 24 E-mail medien (at) datenschutz.saarland.de
return

Associated files

Press release (PDF)

3MB
