 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Athens, 02-03-2021
Prot. No.: 558
 

 

 

DECISION 1/2021

(Department)

Revocation of Decision 47/2020
 (Article 11, par.1 Law 3471/06)

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 20-01-2021 at 10:00 a.m., upon invitation of
Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in its history
present. The Deputy President, Georgios Batzalexis, was present
of the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakou, and the alternate members, Evangelos
Papakonstantinou
tactics
members, Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis and Charalambos Anthopoulos, who, although
were legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to disability. The meeting was attended by
by order of the President, Leonidas Roussos, expert scientist - auditor as assistant
rapporteur. Irini Papageorgopoulou, his employee, attended as Secretary
Administrative Department of the Authority.

Tsolias in replacement

Gregory

of

and

 

The Authority took into account the following:

The Authority issued the no. 47/2020 Decision, according to what is mentioned therein.
However, summoning the complainant to appear for hearing at its meeting
Department was not received by him, as it had been sent to an invalid address
email. Therefore, the complainant did not have the opportunity to
express his views regarding the alleged. For this reason, with the
No. first C/EIS/8560/14-12-2020 application, the complainant, A requested the revocation of
decision.
 

1

1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens
T: 210 6475 600 • E: contact@dpa.gr • www.dpa.gr

 



The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after hearing the rapporteur and
the clarifications of the assistant rapporteur, who then left before the
conference and decision-making, and after thorough discussion,

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

1. According to art. 20 par. 2 of the Constitution, the right of the former
hearing of the interested party also applies to any administrative action or measure that
taken at the expense of his rights or interests.

2. According to article 8 par. 2 of the Regulation of Operation of the Authority, the administrative
penalties provided for violation of the processing arrangements
personal data are always imposed after hearing him
controller or his representative or attorneys
their.

3. At the meeting of the Authority, during which the mentioned decision was taken
in the operative part of this decision, as is also apparent from the relevant information
in practice, the complainant did not participate. This happened as he did not
a summons was served on the e-mail address he had declared and
from which he had replied to the Authority in his earlier communication, but in
wrong address, due to anagram. Considering that the
issued decisions have the character of an enforceable administrative act, was deprived,
in the manner described, his right of prior hearing
denounced according to art. 20 par. 2 of the Constitution, but also v
violation of the Regulation of Operation of the Authority, if with the decision in question
sanction was imposed without prior legal summons of the person in charge
processing and listening to it. Therefore, there is a legitimate reason for its revocation
relevant decision, in order for the case to be discussed anew by the Authority with
the presence of the accused after his legal summons.

 

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

2

The Authority revokes decision 47/2020, in order to summon the complained of
new to attend the meeting of the Department on the date that will
be defined.

 

The president

The Secretary

 
 

 
 

George Batzalexis

Irini Papageorgopoulou

3

 

 

