 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, June 11, 2021

 

press release

 

Assistance with data protection when collecting contact data

and other infection control tasks

With the reopening of gastronomy, trade and event locations and the associated

legal obligation to record contact data, those responsible are once again faced with the task of

to comply with legal obligations under data protection law, also in compliance with data protection.

 

Those responsible have a duty here to make an important contribution to combating the pandemic and at the same time

to process the sensitive data of their customers with care. Michael Will, President of the State Office

for data protection supervision therefore appeals to those responsible: “Data protection and the fight against pandemics are

neither irreconcilable opponents nor double bureaucracy for the companies. Only secure both together

the trust of the customers on the way back to our usual everyday life."

The State Office for Data Protection Supervision has already developed a wide range of information in the past

practical implementation

infectious

and

data protection requirements

support:

https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/thema_corona_gastronomie.html. A special warning applies to all those who contact

data carelessly with open contact lists on paper and thus violate the data protection of their guests

respect, think highly of. Instead, the state office recommends individual sheets with the currently required paper when using paper

Information for which a template is available for download.

Offers of digital contact recording can provide valuable relief and, through efficient

Capable encryption methods ensure that unauthorized persons do not misuse the data for their own purposes. white

there

information

Find

she

under

https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/thema_luca.html

such as

here:

https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/20210429_DSK_OH_Kontaktnachtracking.pdf.

Will notes: “The thoughtless handling of contact details on paper was a lot in the first year of the pandemic

too often cause for individual investigations up to fines. Such procedures are unnecessary and avoidable.

In addition to our assistance for paper-based contact data collection, we now see some efficient

viable electronic contact data recording processes that enable good solutions in terms of data protection

chen. Despite some critical discussions, our previous reviews have so far given no reason for such

Procedures not recommended as long as the manufacturer's application instructions are reliably implemented."

Should those responsible require the submission of negative test results, vaccination or recovery certificates or

If you have to check certificates for exemption from the obligation to wear a mask, these proofs may, according to the wording of the

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

The relevant legal provisions are only presented, i.e. viewed, but not copied. white

Further information can be found here: https://www.lda.bayern.de/media/veroeffentlichungen/20210310_Befrei-

ung_MNB.pdf.

Michael Will
president
 

  

