1/14

 File No.: PS/00361/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), on February 17,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF ALBACETE with NIF P0200300B
(hereinafter, the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

Specifically, you state that, by accessing your private area to check the status in
who was processing your file, has viewed personal data
of other people (names, DNI/NIE, addresses and telephone numbers) and registration requests
of other administrators.

Together with the claim, it provides documents from the electronic office regarding
to other requests for deregistration in the Municipal Register of Inhabitants, with
visible data of entry registration number, name and surname of the person
procedure applicant.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on March 22, 2021, as
It is stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On April 21, 2021, this Agency received a written response
indicating that when the claimant accesses electronically, (through the use of their
recognized digital certificate), on 02-17-2021 to the electronic file processed
to the effect related to communications/requests for deregistration in the Register
Municipality of Inhabitants corresponding to the month of August 2020, existed within
of the same, five folders of documents of other requests, with the only data
visible entry registration number and the name and surname of the person
applicant in the proceedings, (i.e. the person in question could not be identified)
question, due to the dissociation that exists, as it does not appear together with his name and surnames
your ID number or passport), which since they are requests for the same

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

nature are accumulated in files that are created for this purpose on a regular basis
monthly, all in accordance with the legal precepts of Law 39/2015, of 1
of October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(article 58) and adds that there must be a subsequent action (conscious and deliberate)
by the person accessing the file, to click voluntarily
in the tab to open each of the folders of other citizens who have
presented an instance with the same purpose as yours, to view the data
personal and identifying, since all those that have included that
interested in your application: DNI/NIE/Passport, postal address and
registration and contact telephone numbers. Lastly, he adds that they have been carrying out
this processing of registration/registration files in the Municipal Register of Inhabitants
of this municipality in this way, since September 19, 2016, the date on which
The electronic processing begins, without to date they have received any
claim these features.

THIRD: On July 2, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On February 18, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringements of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on February 22, 2022, as stated in the certificate that
work on file.

Once notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent filed a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that, given the need on the part of the
Albacete City Council, to adhere to the technological model developed and
implemented by the Provincial Council for the provision of services of
Electronic Administration, the Provincial Council assumed the task of managing the
electronic administration services of the City Council and technical collaboration in
matter of definition of types of files, exchange formats and
interoperability, it also stated that the tool for the Management System of
Electronic Files (SEGEX) is owned by the Provincial Council of Albacete and put to
disposition of the different City Councils to facilitate the management of files, for
which the responsibility would fall on the Diputación itself, which in view of the
citizen's claim, the City Council sent a letter to the Provincial Council
requesting the modification in the configuration of the established access levels
by default by the tool itself and that they have adopted security measures
opportune to mitigate the existing risk of access to personal data of the
interested parties linked to the same file, for which it requests the file of the
performances.

FIFTH: On April 12, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

<< That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
CITY COUNCIL OF ALBACETE, with NIF P0200300B, for an infringement of article
5.1. f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, qualified
as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD and
infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the
cited RGPD, qualified as serious for prescription purposes in article 73
section f) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of warning. >>

The aforementioned motion for a resolution was sent, in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on April 13, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

SIXTH: On April 28, 2022, the respondent filed a written statement
allegations to the Resolution Proposal, in which, in summary, the
arguments already exposed in the previous arguments.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is recorded that on February 17, 2021, the complaining party filed
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, due to a violation
security of personal data.

SECOND: It is verified that the claimant has been able to access documents
from the electronic office of the City Council of Albacete relating to other
requests for deregistration in the Municipal Register of Inhabitants, with data
visible entry registration number, name and surname of the requesting person
of the procedure.

THIRD: The respondent states that, from the management unit of the registry of
inhabitants, to speed up the procedure, a single SEGEX file is made in the
that the requests that are made during a month of all the
interested in unsubscribing from the Register. The main cause of this violation of
security is due to the fact that each document that is created in said file comes
configured by default so that all the current interested parties of the file and the
that are added later, can access said document. The cause
Secondary security violation is because this default setting
is not changed manually by the file manager, to indicate that
Only the interested party is the one who accesses the document.

Likewise, it states that it has proceeded to implement the corrective measures
adequate to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future.
 The
documentation provided is incorporated into the file.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In relation to the statements made by the claimed party, reiterating
basically on the arguments already presented throughout the procedure
sanctioning, it should be noted that all of them were not only analyzed and
rejected, but were taken into account to formulate the Proposal for
resolution, whose Legal Grounds remain fully in force, and that is
summary in the following:

“In the present case, the entity claimed is responsible for data processing.
data, since, in accordance with article 11 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of
Legal Regime of the Public Sector:

"1. Carrying out activities of a material or technical nature of the competition
administrative bodies or Public Law Entities may be found
recommended to other bodies or Entities of Public Law of the same or different
Administration, provided that these activities are among its powers, for reasons
effectiveness or when they do not have the appropriate technical means for their performance.
No.

The management encomiendas may not have as their object benefits of
contracts regulated in the public sector contract legislation. In that case,
its nature and legal regime will be adjusted to the provisions of this.

2. The management entrustment does not imply transfer of ownership of the competition
nor of the substantive elements of its exercise, being the responsibility of the organ or
Entrusting entity dictate how many acts or resolutions of a legal nature give
support or in which the specific material activity object of entrustment is integrated.

In any case, the entrusted Entity or body will have the status of manager
of the processing of personal data to which you may have access in
execution of the management entrustment, being applicable the provisions of the
protection of personal data.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

Article 4.7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data by
which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation -
RGPD-) defines the person in charge of the treatment or responsible as "the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others,
determine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the data controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may be established by the
Law of the Union or of the Member States.”

Likewise, the aforementioned Regulation refers -in section 8 of its article 4- to the
in charge of the treatment or in charge as "the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the
data controller”.

In this sense, it should be remembered that the figure of the person in charge of the treatment obeys the
the need to respond to phenomena such as the outsourcing of services by
part of the companies and other entities, so that in those cases in which
the data controller entrusts a third party with the provision of a service
that requires access to personal data by it, said access and
treatment is carried out by the person in charge, in the name and on behalf of the person in charge,
as if he were the one who carried it out.

Report 0064/2020 of the Legal Office of the AEPD has emphatically expressed
that the RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when dealing with the regulation of the right
right to the protection of personal data, which is based on the principle of
"accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as has been repeatedly pointed out
the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is included in the Statement of Motives
vos of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data
and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)”: “the greatest novelty presented by the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of a model based, fundamentally, on
in the control of compliance to another that rests on the principle of responsibility
active, which requires a prior assessment by the person in charge or by the person in charge of the
treatment of the risk that could be generated by the treatment of personal data.
personnel to, based on said assessment, adopt the appropriate measures”.

Article 5.2 of the RGPD establishes that "the controller will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it
(“proactive responsibility”)”. This means that the person in charge must guarantee the
effective application of the principles of treatment both at the time of determining
the means of treatment and during the treatment itself, through the
articulation of a series of measures, which must be subject to review and
regular update. This implies that the aforementioned person in charge is the one who assumes
own responsibility directing and coordinating the matter, including that of the staff
that provides services to you.

For these purposes, what is stated in the following recital of the
GDPR:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

74. “The responsibility of the data controller for data processing must be established.
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

On the infringement of lack of security measures for data processing, the
The National High Court stated in various sentences: (June 13, 2002 -appeal no.
1,517/2001 -, February 7, 2003 -appeal no. 1,182/2001 -, January 25, 2006 -
appeal no. 227/2004 -, March 28, 2006 resource 478/2004, June 28, 2006 -
resource no. 290/2004 -, March 24, 2015 -appeal no. 269/2013 - and June 25
2015 -resource no. 90/2014), that the obligation arising from the implementation of
security measures regarding personal data, "there is no
complies with the adoption of any measure, since they must be those necessary to
guarantee those objectives that the precept marks, and of course, it is not enough with the
formal approval of the security measures, since it is required that those
are established and implemented effectively. (…)”
Faced with the risk that a citizen who accesses his file may open each
one of the folders of other citizens who have presented an instance with the same
same purpose as yours, being able to view personal and identifying data, is obtained
lack of these measures. The City Council made the decision to accumulate several
records of deregistration in the Municipal Register, in application of article 57 of the Law
39/15 (the City Council erroneously mentions article 58). This decision is yours
of the City Council and does not obey the design of the tool, which facilitated the internal access
because of information from other stakeholders, when it really doesn't make accrued sense.
formulate files that, even referring to the same matter, are from different interested parties.
cough. The computer tool allowed City Council staff to select which
type of interested parties could have access to the file. Although by default the option is
“all concerned”, the selection could be changed manually (which it should have done).
cer the City Hall staff in this case). It was not done, which, again, led
that “all interested parties” had access. And, as has been pointed out, “all the interests
sados” were those of all the files that, without any sense, had been accumulated
sides.

These preventive measures, aimed at guaranteeing the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of the data, which must be established, must also be subject to
follow-up on its compliance and effectiveness, as well as when the
circumstances of the treatment, attending and contemplating in its case, any
incident that may occur.

Therefore, the data controller must carry out an analysis of the
risks of data processing, implementing technical and organizational measures
appropriate to apply the principles of data protection and integrate the guarantees
necessary in the treatment, in order to meet the requirements of the RGPD, and must be able to
demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned standard.

Finally, among the measures adopted after the breach, the City Council states
which sent a letter to the Provincial Council requesting the modification in the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

configuration of the access levels established by default by the
tool. In this sense, a minimum diligence of the City Council would have to
have had them request it earlier. And, in any case, he should have watched, case by case, that
each file was accessed only by those interested in it. Being, thus
things, and even when in the present case the defendant entity had proceeded, in
the moment of determining the means, to design and implement measures
chords, this would not exempt him from continuing to be responsible for the effectiveness of said
measures during the whole time in which the collection and treatment had taken place
of personal data.

In the present case, it is accredited that the personal data of users of the
Electronic Records Management System tool were improperly
exposed to third parties from the information system itself, violating the principles
of integrity and confidentiality, both established in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.
Therefore, non-compliance with data protection regulations must be fully
mente imputed to the data controller, by not acting actively and effectively
in stipulating and enforcing the appropriate specifications to properly carry out
properly in time, the treatment entrusted on your behalf.

Accordingly, the claims must be dismissed.”

III

Article 5.1f)

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

“Article 5 Principles relating to the treatment

1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is proven that personal data of citizens working
in the computer application for the management of the municipal register of inhabitants were
unduly exposed to third parties, violating the principles of integrity and
confidentiality, both established in the aforementioned article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1f) of the RGPD

IV

 Article 83.5 of the RGPD provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: "The acts and behaviors referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 72 of the LOPDGDD,
under the rubric of infractions considered very serious, it establishes the following: “1. In
Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 of the GDPR, transcribed above.

v

Article 32 of the GDPR

Article 4.12 of the RGPD establishes that it is considered “violation of the security of the
personal data: any breach of security that results in the destruction, loss
or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.”

Article 32 of the RGPD, security of treatment, establishes the following:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

 a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

 b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

  c) the ability to restore availability and access to data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

 d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

 
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data (The underlining is from the AEPD).

Recital 75 of the RGPD lists a series of factors or assumptions associated with
risks for the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties:

“The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to the processing of data that could cause
physical, material or non-material damages, particularly in cases where
that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social damage; in the
cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights and freedoms or are
prevent exercising control over your personal data; In cases where the data
treated personalities reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion
or philosophical beliefs, militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data,
data relating to health or data on sex life, or convictions and offenses
criminal or related security measures; In cases where they are evaluated
personal aspects, in particular the analysis or prediction of aspects related to the
performance at work, economic situation, health, preferences or interests
personal, reliability or behavior, situation or movements, in order to create or
use personal profiles; in the cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, in particular children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested.”

In the present case, the lack of implementation of technical and organizational measures has
caused access by unauthorized third parties to the data stored in the system of
information from the electronic headquarters of the claimed party, thereby violating the
article 32 of the RGPD.

In this regard, and as has been stated in the previous foundation, the City Council
The administration made the decision to accumulate various records of removal from the Municipal Register.
cipal, in application of article 57 of Law 39/15 (erroneously the City Council
mentions article 58). This decision belongs to the City Council and does not obey the di-
design of the tool, which facilitated improper access to the information of other inte-
resents, when it really does not make sense to accumulate files that, even referring-
It is the same matter, they are from different stakeholders. The computer tool allows
It was up to City Hall staff to select what type of interested parties could have actions.
cess to the file. Although by default the option is “all interested”, the selection
tion could be changed manually (which City Hall staff had to do
in this case). It was not done, which, again, led to "all those interested" having

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

great access. And, as has been pointed out, "all stakeholders" were those of all ex-
requests that, without any sense, had been accumulated.

Finally, and as also stated in the previous rationale, among the measures
adopted after the breach, the City Council states that it sent a letter to the
Provincial Council requesting the modification in the configuration of the levels of
access established by default by the tool itself. In this sense, a
minimum diligence of the City Council should have made them request it before.
And, in any case, he had to monitor, case by case, that each file was accessed only
by those interested in it. Being, thus the things, and even when in the case
present, the respondent entity would have proceeded, at the time of determination of
the media, to design and implement appropriate measures, this would not exempt him from
remain responsible for the effectiveness of such measures for as long as
in which the collection and processing of personal data had taken place.

In the present case, it is accredited that the personal data of users of the
Electronic Records Management System tool were improperly
exposed to third parties from the information system itself,

The consequence of this lack of mandatory security measures was
the exposure to third parties of the personal data of citizen users of the
electronic office. In other words, those affected have been deprived of control over
your personal information.

In this case, the Internet search, for example, of the name, surnames, ID or email
email of some of those affected can offer results that combining them
with those now accessed by third parties, allow us access to other applications of
those affected or the creation of personality profiles, which need not have
been consented by its owner.

This possibility represents an added risk that must be assessed in the study of
risk management and that increases the demand for the degree of protection in relation to
the security and safeguarding of the integrity and confidentiality of these data.

This risk must be taken into account by the data controller, who must
establish the necessary technical and organizational measures to prevent the loss of
control of the data by the data controller and, therefore, by the data controllers.
holders of the data that provided them.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

SAW

Article 83.4 of the RGPD provides the following:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.”
 (…)

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 73 of the LOPDGDD,
under the heading "Infringements considered serious", it establishes the following:

  “Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

 (…)

  f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.4 of the GDPR, transcribed above.

7th

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to impose penalties", in article 28
under the heading “Responsibility”, the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

viii

Sanction

Article 83.7 of the RGPD adds:

 “Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public but with a warning, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6.
of the LOPDGDD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

 "1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

 c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations.”

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to sanction with a warning the
claimed party, for infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in article
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

83.5 of the RGPD, and for violation of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4
of the GDPR.

IX

Measures

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

 d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Likewise, it is appropriate to impose the corrective measure described in article 58.2.d) of the
RGPD and order the claimed party to establish the appropriate security measures.
so that the treatments are adapted to the requirements contemplated in the
articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, preventing situations such as the one that
has given rise to the claim.

The text of the resolution establishes the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION the CITY COUNCIL OF ALBACETE with a WARNING,
with NIF P0200300B, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND:
 SANCTION with a WARNING to the CITY COUNCIL OF
ALBACETE, with NIF P0200300B, for an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

THIRD: REQUEST the ALBACETE CITY COUNCIL to implement the
necessary corrective measures to adapt their actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, which prevent events from being repeated in the future
Similar.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to ALBACETE CITY COUNCIL.

FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

