

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the use of cookies (UOOU-00374/20)
Media content operator


The subject of the inspection, based on the inspection plan for 2020, was compliance with the obligations of the personal data manager in the processing of personal data of users in connection with the use of cookies within the framework of the operation of websites with multimedia content (television operator), and in particular the inspection of the fulfillment of obligations according to Article 7, Articles 11-19 of the General Regulation and to the extent corresponding obligations under Article 5 of the General Regulation, including the use of cookies when operating the website. The administrator, ensuring the operation of the website, declared the use of cookies as part of normal browsing of the website and after the end of using the website/browser should have deleted them automatically, also for setting the user name, or language, so that the visitor does not have to enter data with each visit, and for analytical purposes, i.e. finding out aggregated information about the total number of visitors to the server, the duration of the visit, etc. the data subject fulfilled the information obligation by the fact that it prepared the document Principles of protection of personal and other processed data, which was stored in the Contacts tab on the website, but the user/visitor was not informed about this and until the time of their update (25. 5. 2020) the information according to Article 12 of the general regulation was not provided in an easily accessible way, as it was necessary to search for it. In addition, the information was not complete, some data were not up-to-date (especially references to legal regulations). The inspection revealed a violation of Article 12 (1) and (2) of the General Regulation, whereby the inspected person committed an offense under ยง 62 (1) letter c) Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, for which she was fined; the inspected person corrected the illegal situation during the inspection. At the same time, she was fined CZK 100,000 for non-cooperation. Furthermore, it was verified that the controlled person had adopted technical and organizational measures in accordance with Article 32 of the General Regulation, which were evidenced by a document on the Principles of Protection of Personal and Other Processed Data, and which apply, among other things, to the processing of cookies and other internal measures. The security measures taken were regularly updated.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > IT technology > Inspection of the use of cookies (UOOU-00374/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



