

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of patients' personal data (Krajská nemocnice T. Bati, a. s.)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was compliance with the obligations stipulated by this Act in connection with the processing of personal data of patients.



The inspection was initiated on the basis of a complaint, according to which the complainant's medical records were to be lost. The inspection therefore focused in particular on whether and to what extent the inspected person fulfills the obligations associated with ensuring the security of personal and sensitive data processed in the medical records of patients in the sense of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



As part of the inspection, the Office assessed the technical and organizational measures taken to ensure the protection of personal data, the level of security of medical documentation in paper form, training and confidentiality of employees, control mechanisms and manipulation of the complainant's medical documentation. Here, the controlled person has taken appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized or accidental access to personal and sensitive data in the patients' medical records. It documented these measures in internal regulations, with which the responsible employees were familiarized and compliance with which is regularly checked. The controlled person therefore has obligations arising from § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. did not violate



In the case that was the subject of the complaint, the doctor took over the medical documentation of the complainant and took it from the hospital premises (for the purpose of preparing an expert opinion on the complaint of the complainant), while it was stolen from his vehicle along with other things. The incident in question was therefore not caused by the absence or inadequacy of measures on the part of the inspected person, but by the misconduct of an employee of the inspected person. The Office therefore found a violation of § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (processing under conditions set by the administrator), which is not, however, an offence. Such employee misconduct is dealt with in disciplinary or disciplinary proceedings as part of the employment relationship.


The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the security of patients' personal data (Krajská nemocnice T. Bati, a. s. )Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



