Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 050965/2019  

The inquiry raises the adequacy to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data (hereinafter GDPR) and to Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD) concerning the request made by CRUZ ROJA ESPAÑOLA from various autonomous administrations in relation to data of disabled workers, in order to participate in tenders and public subsidies.  

The inquiry focuses on whether such a request exceeds the legally established information and may infringe upon the right to data protection of disabled workers, considering that it involves health data.  

Secondly, it requests the opinion of this Legal Advisory Office regarding whether, in accordance with the provisions of the Eighth Provision of the LOPDGDD and Articles 28.2 and 3 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPAC), the information requested may not be provided by the inquirer, considering that it could be consulted by the requesting administration itself.  

I  
Article 4.15 of the GDPR defines "health data" as personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about their health status;  

For its part, Recital (35) states that among the personal data related to health, all data related to the health status of the data subject that provide information about their past, present, or future physical or mental health must be included. (…) any number, symbol, or data assigned to a natural person that uniquely identifies them for health purposes; information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or a bodily substance, including that derived from genetic data and biological samples, and any information related, for example, to an illness, a disability, the risk of suffering from diseases, medical history, clinical treatment, or the physiological or biomedical state of the data subject, regardless of its source, for example, a doctor or another health professional, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test.  

From the above, it must be concluded that information related to the disability status of a worker is health data and therefore must be included within the "special categories of data" according to Article 9 of the GDPR.  

II  
The processing of special data must find coverage in Article 9.2 GDPR, and once the general prohibition is excepted, one must refer to the provisions of Article 6 GDPR to legitimize the processing in question. This was indicated by the Article 29 Working Party (whose functions have been assumed by the European Data Protection Board) in its opinion "Guidelines on Automated Individual Decision-Making and Profiling for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679" by stating that (…) Data controllers may only process special category personal data if one of the conditions laid down in Article 9, paragraph 2, is met, as well as a condition from Article 6. (…)  

Article 9 of the GDPR establishes, in its paragraph 1, the general prohibition on processing those data (…) that reveal racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data related to health, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person (…).  

In its paragraph 2, the exceptions that lift the prohibition are collected, indicating that it shall not apply in the following cases:  
(…) a) the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of such personal data for one or more specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provides that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject;  
b) the processing is necessary for compliance with legal obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of employment law and social security and protection, to the extent that it is authorized by the  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
2
Legal Office
Union Law of the Member States or a collective agreement
in accordance with the law of the Member States that establishes
adequate guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights and the
interests of the data subject; 
 c) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of
the data subject or another natural person, in the event that the data subject
is not capable, physically or legally, of giving consent; 
 d) the processing is carried out, within the scope of its legitimate
activities and with the necessary safeguards, by a foundation, an association,
or any other non-profit organization, whose purpose is
political, philosophical, religious, or trade union, provided that the processing
relates exclusively to current or former members of such
organizations or to persons who maintain regular contacts with them
in relation to their purposes and provided that the personal data is not
communicated outside of them without the consent of the data subjects; 
 e) the processing relates to personal data that the data subject
has made manifestly public; 
 f) the processing is necessary for the formulation, exercise, or
defense of claims or when courts act in the exercise of
their judicial function; 
 g) the processing is necessary for reasons of an essential public
interest, based on Union law or the law of the Member States, which must be
proportional to the objective pursued, respect in
essence the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific
measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject; 
h) the processing is necessary for preventive or occupational health
purposes, assessment of the worker's capacity, medical diagnosis,
provision of assistance or treatment of a health or social nature,
or management of health and social care systems and services,
based on Union law or the law of the Member States or
by virtue of a contract with a health professional and without prejudice to the
conditions and guarantees set out in paragraph 3; 
 i) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the
field of public health, such as protection against serious cross-border
threats to health, or to ensure high levels of quality and safety
of health care and of medicines or medical products, based on Union law
or the law of the Member States that establishes adequate and
specific measures to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject, in
particular professional secrecy; 
 j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public
interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical
purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, based on Union law
or the law of the Member States, which must be proportional to the
objective pursued, respect in essence the right to data protection, and establish
adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights
of the data subject. (…)
For its part, Article 6 of the GDPR establishes the cases that
allow the processing of data to be considered lawful, which states the following:
1. Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the
following conditions is met: 
 a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of their
personal data for one or more specific purposes; 
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract
to which the data subject is a party or for the application at the request of the
data subject of pre-contractual measures; 
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal
obligation to which the data controller is subject; 
 d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of
the data subject or another natural person; 
 e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public
interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller; 
 f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate
interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that such
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular when the
data subject is a child. 
As has been highlighted, Articles 6 and 9 of the GDPR
determine the cases that allow the processing of personal data, with
Legal Office
general character, and with specific character regarding the special categories of data, respectively.  
For its part, Article 8 of the LOPDGDD under the heading "Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest, or exercise of public powers" establishes the following:  
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided for by a norm of European Union law or a norm with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a consequence of the fulfillment of the legal obligation. Such a norm may also impose special conditions on the processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.  
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a norm with the rank of law.  
III  
Having said the above, it is necessary to address the analysis of the norms that provide for the processing of data raised in the consultation.  
Article 42 of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, of November 29, which approves the Consolidated Text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion (RDL 1/2013 hereinafter) under the heading "Quota for reserving jobs for persons with disabilities" establishes the following:  
(…)1. Public and private companies employing 50 or more workers shall be obliged that among them, at least 2 percent are workers with disabilities. The aforementioned computation shall be carried out on the total workforce of the corresponding company, regardless of the number of workplaces it has and regardless of the form of labor contracting that binds the workers of the company. It shall also be understood that workers with disabilities who are at any given time providing services in public or private companies, by virtue of the contracts for provision that they have entered into with temporary work companies, will be included in this computation. (…)  
Regarding participation in competitive bidding processes in which this circumstance is subject to evaluation, Law 9/2017, of November 8, on Public Sector Contracts, which transposes the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU, of February 26, 2014 (Public Sector Contracts Law or LCSP hereinafter) contains several provisions that must be taken into account when evaluating the legitimizing basis for the processing referred to in the consultation.  
Article 71 under the heading "Prohibitions on contracting" states the following:  
1. They may not contract (…) persons in whom any of the following circumstances concur (…):  
d) Not being up to date in the fulfillment of tax obligations or Social Security obligations imposed by current regulations, in the terms that are determined by regulation; or in the case of companies with 50 or more workers, not meeting the requirement that at least 2 percent of their employees are workers with disabilities, in accordance with Article 42 of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, of November 29, which approves the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, under the conditions that are determined by regulation; or in the case of companies with more than 250 workers, not complying with the obligation to have an equality plan in accordance with the provisions of Article 45 of Organic Law 3/2007, of March 22, for the equality of women and men.  
(…)  
The accreditation of compliance with the quota for reserving jobs of 2 percent for persons with disabilities and the obligation to have an equality plan referred to in the first paragraph of this letter shall be made by presenting the responsible declaration referred to in Article 140.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
6
Legal Office
On its part, Decree 213/1998, of December 17, of the Government Council, which establishes measures in the administrative contracting of the Community of Madrid to support the stability and quality of employment, in its article 4 under the heading "Contracting measures with companies that are required to have disabled workers in their workforce" establishes the following:
1. In the Particular Administrative Clauses of the contracts, the contracting bodies shall include, among the obligations of the contractor, one related to the compliance with the obligation to have employees, during the term of the contract, disabled workers in at least 2 percent of the company's workforce, if it reaches a number of 50 or more workers and the contractor is subject to such obligation, in accordance with article 38.1 of Law 13/1982, of April 7, on the Social Integration of Disabled Persons.
2. The companies or entrepreneurs participating in the procedures for the awarding of the contracts referred to in the first article shall submit, at the time of presenting their proposals, a responsible declaration by which, if they are awarded the contract, they undertake to comply with and prove, before the contracting body, the obligation expressed in the previous section, unless they are legally exempt from it.
(…)
3. The proof of compliance with the aforementioned obligation shall be carried out by presenting to the contracting body the following documents: a certificate from the company stating the number of employees in the workforce and a certified copy of the contracts entered into with disabled workers.
At this point, it should be noted that although Decree 213/1998 is a regulatory norm and of regional scope, it rests on the competence that Organic Law 3/1983, of February 25, on the Statute of Autonomy of the Community of Madrid, attributes to that public administration in its article 27.2 in relation to public contracting by indicating the following:
Within the framework of the basic legislation of the State and, where appropriate, under the terms established by it, it corresponds to the Community of Madrid the legislative development, regulatory power, and execution of the following matters: (…)
2. Legal regime and system of liability of the public administration of the Community of Madrid and the public entities dependent on it, as well as the statutory regime of its officials. Contracts and administrative concessions, within the scope of the competencies of the Community of Madrid (…)
On the other hand, other provisions closely linked to the treatment subject to consultation must be taken into account, as what has been indicated so far is the determination of the obligation to reserve 2% in the workforce of companies that have at least 50 workers, but the provisions that are cited below demonstrate how the contracting administration can verify compliance with this obligation.
Article 72 establishes under the heading "Assessment of the prohibition to contract. Competence and procedure."
1. The prohibitions on contracting related to the circumstances contained in letters c), d), f), g), and h) of section 1 of the previous article shall be assessed directly by the contracting bodies, remaining in force as long as the circumstances that determine them in each case exist (…)
For its part, article 140, under the heading "Presentation of the documentation proving compliance with the prior requirements" (…). 3. The contracting body or the contracting table may request candidates or bidders to present all or part of the supporting documents when they consider that there are reasonable doubts about the validity or reliability of the declaration, when necessary for the proper development of the procedure and, in any case, before awarding the contract. (…)
Likewise, reference must be made to the provisions of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), which in its article 69 "Responsible declaration and communication" establishes the following:
1. For the purposes of this Law, a responsible declaration shall be understood as the document signed by an interested party in which they state, under their responsibility, that they comply with the requirements established in the current regulations to obtain the recognition of a right or power or for its exercise, that they have the documentation that proves it, that they will make it available to the Administration when required, and that they undertake to maintain compliance with the previous obligations during the period inherent to such recognition or exercise.
The requirements referred to in the previous paragraph must be expressly, clearly, and precisely included in the corresponding documentation.
Legal Office
Responsible Declaration. The Administrations may require at any time that the documentation proving compliance with the aforementioned requirements be provided, and the interested party must provide it. Even in the ANNEX related to the Responsible Declaration that is submitted along with the inquiry, the following is stated: “Furthermore, it is committed to proving compliance with the aforementioned obligation before the contracting authority when required to do so, at any time during the term of the contract or, in any case, before the return of the final guarantee.”

From the above, we can draw the following conclusions: 
The obligation to reserve 2% of the workforce for workers with disabilities in companies with at least 50 employees is a measure of protection and social integration determined by law, and furthermore, in public contracting, its enforceability has been reinforced by being configured, following the modification introduced by Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, as a requirement whose non-compliance constitutes a prohibition to contract.

Secondly, on the part of the entities, in addition to being obliged to comply with this provision, with the responsible declaration and participation in the competitive bidding process, they assume that the recipient of the responsible declaration and, in particular, the contracting authority may require the documentation and other necessary instruments to verify the truthfulness of what is indicated therein.

Finally, on the part of the contracting public administration, the verification of what is indicated in the responsible declaration is a competence that must be appreciated by the contracting authority – unlike others that, for example, require a firm judgment or administrative sanction, registration in the Official Register of Bidders, etc. – being obliged to do so regarding the awarded party, and its specification can also be found in the specific administrative clauses.

Therefore, with respect to data protection regulations, we are dealing with the processing of personal data framed within the "special categories of data" provided for in Article 9 of the GDPR. 

Thus, the situation that "lifts the prohibition" contained in paragraph 1 of the aforementioned provision is found in letter b) of paragraph 2, which states:
(…) the processing is necessary for compliance with obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of labor law and social security, to the extent that it is authorized by the law of the Union of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject; (…)

Once the "prohibition" is "lifted," we must turn to the legitimizing situations of Article 6.1 GDPR, in this case, for the entity participating in the public contracting process and taking into account what is indicated in Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD previously mentioned, the legitimizing situation will be the one provided for in paragraph c) which states: 
c) The processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller;

And the law of the Union or of the Member States indicated in the aforementioned Article 8.1 would be formed by RDL 1/2013, the LCSP, and the aforementioned regional regulations.

And regarding the contracting public administration, it must be established that the activity of public contracting carried out by public administrations should be considered a public service activity to the extent that the purpose of its action is the general interest. 

This is indicated by Article 1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, which states that (…) 1. Public Administrations serve the general interests objectively (…).

It should also be added that the specific processing derived from the LCSP and RDL 1/2013 refers to a measure of social integration protection for people with disabilities and therefore constitutes a mission of general public interest. 

This is evident from the Explanatory Memorandum of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, of November 29, (…) it is necessary for the regulatory framework and public actions in the field of disability to intervene in social organization and its material or relational expressions that, with their segregating structures and actions, postpone or separate people with disabilities from ordinary social life, all with the ultimate goal of enabling them to participate, as active subjects holding rights, in a life under equal conditions as the rest of the citizens. 
(…) 
And in the international sphere, it is derived from the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted on December 13, 2006, by the United Nations General Assembly.
Legal Office
(UN), ratified by Spain on December 3, 2007, and which entered into force on May 3, 2008, which enshrines the rights-based approach for persons with disabilities, considering persons with disabilities as subjects entitled to rights, and public authorities are obliged to ensure that the exercise of those rights is full and effective. 
There is no doubt that the obligation analyzed in favor of persons with disabilities in the area of contracting is of general interest, since, in addition to the fact that its non-compliance constitutes a prohibition on contracting, the legislator values these measures and those social clauses, which can become a tie-breaking criterion in the awarding procedure. In this regard, Article 147.2 of the LCSP establishes:
(…)2. In the absence of provisions in the specifications referred to in the previous section, the tie between several offers after the application of the contract award criteria will be resolved by applying, in order, the following social criteria, related to the moment of the deadline for submitting offers:
a) Higher percentage of workers with disabilities or in a situation of social exclusion in the workforce of each of the companies, prioritizing in case of equality, the higher number of permanent workers with disabilities in the workforce, or the higher number of workers in inclusion in the workforce. (…)
In short, the provisions of the LCSP and the analyzed RDL serve to enhance access to employment for persons in a situation or at risk of social exclusion. 
On the other hand, regarding the legal bases that legitimize the processing of public administrations, Report 74/2019 indicated the following:
(…) the processing of personal data carried out by public administrations will find its legitimacy, in general, in letters c) and e) of Article 6.1 of the GDPR and is subject to the data minimization principle established in Article 5.1.c) of the same, with national regulations having the rank of law being able to establish specifications regarding such processing in accordance with sections 6.2 and 6.3 of the GDPR. (…)
Therefore, taking into account what is indicated in Article 8.2 of the LOPDGDD mentioned above, the legitimizing basis for the processing carried out by the public administration will be, in addition to that derived from the legal obligation of section c), the one provided for in section e), which states:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11

                                                                  Legal Office
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller; 
And the norm that attributes the competence indicated in the aforementioned Article 8 would be formed by RDL 1/2013, the LCSP, and the aforementioned regional regulations. 
IV
Having identified the legal bases that allow the processing and regarding the content of the requirement from the Autonomous Community of Madrid (CAM hereinafter), it should be noted that, as indicated in the consultation, the accreditation of the obligation established in the previous provisions is carried out by presenting the following documents: 
“Certificate from the entity, signed by its legal representative, stating the number of workers in the company. (…)
- If this number is equal to or greater than 50 workers, they must present, in addition to the certificate, the following: 
• A list, signed by the legal representative, indicating the name and surname of the worker, date of hiring and termination, if applicable, degree of disability, type of contract (permanent or temporary). 
• Certified copy of the contracts and IDC document (Data Report for Contribution - Employees) of the disabled workers.  
• Accreditation of the recognition of their degree of disability, if that information is not included in the previously mentioned document.”  
The consultant indicates that the documentation required by the CAM administration exceeds what is provided for in the legislation; however, the exact terms of the administrative clauses in which the method of accrediting compliance with the obligation may be provided are unknown, and, if applicable, whether these have been subject to appeal - in case CRE considered them contrary to law -, etc., since the consultation indicates that the resolution by virtue of which it is required is made in accordance with Article 4 of Decree 213/1998, of December 17, which establishes measures in the administrative contracting of the Community of Madrid to support quality and stability in employment, and in accordance with the Particular Administrative Clauses. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12
Legal Office
All of this is without prejudice to the fact that, as previously indicated, the contracting authority may require the documents it deems necessary to verify compliance with the requirements in accordance with Articles 72 and 140.3 of the LCSP, and that, furthermore, the bidding entities assume this possibility by participating in the public procurement process in general, and especially when they submit the responsible declaration. 
In any case, the provision of how compliance with the requirements arising from the obligation assumed by the participant in the bidding must comply with what is indicated in Article 5.1 b) and c) of the GDPR, where the principles of purpose limitation and data minimization are established, stating that personal data will be: 
b) collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further in a manner incompatible with those purposes; in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific and historical research purposes, or statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("purpose limitation"); 
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ("data minimization"); 
Therefore, in response to the questions raised in the consultation, the consent of the workers whose data will be subject to processing will not be required, and the request made by the contracting administration, in this case, the CAM, is lawful, finding its legitimacy in the indicated precepts. 
V 
It is also indicated in the consultation the possibility that in certain requests made by public administrations, the provisions of the Eighth Additional Provision of the LOPDGDD may apply, the text of which is as follows: 
Eighth Additional Provision Power of verification of Public Administrations. 
When requests are made by any means in which the interested party declares personal data held by Public Administrations, the recipient authority of the request may carry out the necessary verifications to check the accuracy of the data in the exercise of its competencies. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid 
13 

                                                                  Legal Office
The consultant also cites in relation to the above, the provisions of Article 28, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the LPACAP, which states the following: 
2. Interested parties have the right not to provide documents that are already in the possession of the acting Administration or have been prepared by any other Administration. The acting administration may consult or request such documents unless the interested party opposes it. Opposition shall not be possible when the submission of the document is required in the context of the exercise of sanctioning or inspection powers. 
Public Administrations must electronically request the documents through their corporate networks or by consulting data intermediation platforms or other electronic systems enabled for this purpose. 
When it comes to mandatory reports already prepared by an administrative body other than the one processing the procedure, these must be sent within ten days from the date of their request. Upon expiration of this period, the interested party will be informed that they may provide this report or wait for its submission by the competent authority. 
3. Administrations shall not require interested parties to present original documents, unless, exceptionally, the applicable regulatory provisions establish otherwise. Likewise, Public Administrations shall not require interested parties to provide data or documents not required by the applicable regulatory provisions or that have been previously submitted by the interested party to any Administration. For these purposes, the interested party must indicate when and before which administrative body they submitted the aforementioned documents, and the Public Administrations must collect them electronically through their corporate networks or by consulting data intermediation platforms or other electronic systems enabled for this purpose, unless there is an express opposition from the interested party in the procedure or the applicable special law requires their express consent. Exceptionally, if the Public Administrations are unable to collect the aforementioned documents, they may again request the interested party to provide them. 
In the present case, it is not the personal data of the interested party that will be subject to processing resulting from a consultation or the submission of documents and regarding which it could be indicated to the administration that they have already been provided, but rather it is the bidding entrepreneur who is responsible. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid 
14
Legal Office
to present documents that belong to third parties, such as disabled workers. 
In other words, documents are not required from disabled workers – who are in no case interested parties in the public procurement procedure – but rather, pursuant to the LCSP, it is the bidder who is requested to provide certain documents to verify the details of the responsible declaration.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
15