








electric scooter
The data goes with you
09/13/2019 • HmbBfDI



A fundamental part of privacy is being able to move around in public space without being followed. However, those who resort to the new offers of e-scooters lose this protection. This new form of urban mobility is made available by many providers only with a significant intrusion into the privacy of users. Every meter covered is recorded and can be combined into movement profiles. Many of those affected probably only have insufficient knowledge of which data is collected, combined and used by the respective providers for which purposes. On the one hand, this is due to the providers' deficient data protection notices, which do not give the user a sufficient understanding of the actual data processing. On the other hand, it may also be due to the fact that many users ignore the risks in the area of profiling and the disclosure of their data. But the rental business also includes the business with customer data. The price to be paid here - all users should be aware of this - is the loss of anonymity with which they move through public space. A necessity for this prosecution is not recognizable. Providers of comparable Car-Sharing models therefore usually do without such tracking.
Usually contact data, account data, data on the use of the internet offer, possibly data from linked third-party services, data provided by the providers through marketing and advertising partners about the customer, as well as the location data, which in addition to lending and Parking location of the e-scooter also include the entire journey.
This data is used by the providers for various purposes and can be passed on to other service providers and partners, but also to public authorities.
Movement and location data of the users are economically extremely interesting for the distributors themselves, for business partners, advertisers and for local providers of goods and services. They are fuel for digitally driven business processes. Customer and purchasing behavior can be analyzed using mobility profiles. E-scooters are parked directly at the destination - i.e. the place of residence, a shop or a leisure facility. Direct conclusions about individual preferences and daily routines can be drawn from this information, and it can be used for effective push and pull strategies. Public authorities are also interested in movement data, e.g. for traffic planning or even for investigating and prosecuting administrative offenses or criminal offenses.
Johannes Caspar, Hamburg's representative for data protection and freedom of information: "Particular caution is required when e-scooter rental companies describe the transfer of user data to unspecified third parties, without a clear purpose and only extremely vaguely in their data protection regulations. In particular, if data is collected without this being necessary for the execution of the contract, users should take a critical look at the data protection regulations of the provider. It is important to consider whether it is worth using your own data for the offer, even if the processing of mobility data is not necessary to provide the contractual services. If a data breach is suspected, a complaint can be lodged with the local data protection authority or the data protection authority responsible for the provider.”


press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "lbjzyouvdtnxikaw");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "hojuglpdcqrewbys");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp






