18.01.2022
28 January 2022 - EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION DAY

The celebration of European Data Protection Day, on January 28, 2022, by all member states of the Council of Europe marks the 41st anniversary of the adoption, in 1981, in Strasbourg, of Convention 108 for the protection of individuals with regard to the automated processing of personal data.
Recently, by Law no. 290 of December 9, 2021, Romania ratified the Protocol amending Convention 108, opened for signature on October 10, 2018 in Strasbourg and signed by our country on June 26, 2020.
The annual marking of this day is an opportunity to bring to the public's attention the importance of respecting the principles of personal data processing, the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data, enshrined as fundamental rights.
For the celebration of the European Data Protection Day, on January 28, 2022, our institution will organize the online conference entitled "The main aspects found in the activity of the National Supervisory Authority", in which specific aspects of the application of the rules of data protection will be presented and debated. processing of personal data. Mainly, the authorities and representative central public institutions, the most important professional associations and unions, chambers of commerce, companies and media representatives were invited to this event.
On this occasion, the Guide on data processing carried out by owners' associations, prepared by our institution and intended to clarify aspects specific to this category of operators, will also be launched.
The celebration of the European Data Protection Day will also be carried out with the support of the national television station TVR and the Bucharest Transport Society, which will broadcast the informative clip dedicated to the General Data Protection Regulation (public interest message), produced by our institution.
Also, for those interested, synthetic information on the Authority's activity from the previous year is presented, as every year, in the Brochure dedicated to the European Data Protection Day, available, together with the related leaflet, at www.dataprotection.ro/informatii generale/ information of public interest/informative materials.

Legal direction and communication
ANSPDCP