 

 
Locatefamily.com
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

 

Date
December 10, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
Subject
Decision to impose an administrative fine and an order subject to periodic penalty payments
 

 

 

 

Dear Ms, Mr,
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has decided to impose an administrative fine on Locatefamily.com
€ 525,000 to be imposed, because Locatefamily.com has not in the period from 25 May 2018 to date
complied with the obligation to designate a representative in the European Union (EU) in writing.
Locatefamily.com thus has Article 27, first paragraph, in conjunction with Article 3, second paragraph, of the General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) violated.
 
The AP has also decided to impose an order subject to periodic penalty payments on Locatefamily.com, which pertains to the
undo this continuing violation. Locatefamily.com serves this purpose within twelve
weeks after the date of and with due observance of this decision, to still comply with the obligation such as
included in Article 27 of the GDPR and appoint a representative in the EU in writing. If
Locatefamily.com does not comply with the order within this period, Locatefamily.com forfeits a penalty
of € 20,000 for every two weeks after the end of the beneficiary period, up to a maximum amount
of a total of € 120,000.
 
The decision is explained below. Chapter 1 contains the relevant facts and the course of the proceedings. In
Chapter 2 describes the legal framework. In chapter 3 follows the assessment of the AP, after which
in chapter 4 the amount of the administrative fine is motivated. In chapter 5, the burden is under
penalty is displayed. Finally, Chapter 6 contains the operative part and the remedies clause.
 

  

 

1



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
1. Facts and procedure
 
Locatefamily.com is an organization based outside the European Union (EU) with its website
'Locatefamily.com' offers a platform on which anyone can search for contact details of acquaintances
which they have lost sight of.
 
Because the AP does not know the location address of Locatefamily.com, communication with
Locatefamily.com expired via email only.1
 
In the investigation period from May 25, 2018 to July 25, 2019, the AP received nineteen complaints
regarding Locatefamily.com. The complaints concern failure to respond (adequately) to requests for the
deletion of personal data of data subjects and the lack of an establishment or a
representative of Locatefamily.com within the EU.2
 
In response to the complaints received, the AP sent a request by e-mail on June 26, 2018
information sent to Locatefamily.com, whereupon Locatefamily.com emailed on July 2, 2018
responded.3
 
On July 9, 2018, the AP sent a second request for information to Locatefamily.com by email,
to which Locatefamily.com responded by email on July 19, 2018.4
 
On July 18, 2018, the AP submitted a request for mutual assistance under Article 61 of the GDPR
sent to fellow supervisors within the EU, asking the AP whether they have complaints or
have received signals with regard to Locatefamily.com and whether there is a branch c.q.
is a representative of Locatefamily.com in the relevant country. At the beginning of September 2018, ten
EU supervisors responded to the request of 18 July 2018.5 A number of countries also confirmed
to have received complaints about Locatefamily.com.
 
Following an increase in the number of complaints about Locatefamily.com both in the Netherlands and
in other EU member states, the AP launched an ex officio investigation at the end of December 2018
Locatefamily.com regarding an alleged violation of Article 27 of the GDPR, pursuant to which
determine the controller or the processor in writing a representative in the EU
should indicate.
 

                                                                        
1 legal@locatefamily.com and info@locatefamily.com. The latter address is also used by Locatefamily.com according to
her response to one of the 19 complaints.
2 Overview of complaints, appendix 1 to the investigation report.
3 Email exchange with Locatefamily.com, appendix 12 to the research report.
4 Email exchange with Locatefamily.com, appendix 12 to the research report.
5 IMI report (Internal Market Information System) with the request to EU supervisors and the responses thereto, Annexes 3 and 4 to
the research report.

 

 

2/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In March 2019, the AP conducted a technical investigation proving Canada as a possible
location of Locatefamily.com revealed.6 After that, the AP has an international collaboration
launched through the Enforcement subgroup of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB).
 
On March 19, 2019, a conference call was held from this collaboration group of in total
nine European supervisors, chaired by the AP.7
 
On March 25, 2019, the AP sent a letter on behalf of the cooperating European supervisors
to the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, with a request for information regarding
Locatefamily.com.8
 
Because the location address of Locatefamily.com remained unknown for the time being, the Irish,
French and Dutch regulator agreed to review the national complaints filed
direct data erasure requests to Locatefamily.com.
 
On April 8, 2019, the AP provided Locatefamily.com with an overview by e-mail of the
receive complaints regarding Locatefamily.com's handling of data erasure requests
and thereby pointed out the obligations for Locatefamily.com under the GDPR.9
 
In emails dated April 10, 2019 and July 27, 2019, Locatefamily.com notified the AP of the removal of the
personal data from its website.10 The request has been sent in all three countries (Ireland, France, and the Netherlands)
largely funded by Locatefamily.com.
 
On May 28, 2019, the Privacy Commissioner of Canada informed the AP that it is working on the
request of the AP dated March 25, 2019.11
 
On July 22, 2019, the AP sent a third request for information to Locatefamily.com by email.12
 
When asked in this July 22, 2019 email for an address from Locatefamily.com or from a
representative in the EU, the AP has not received a response from Locatefamily.com.
 
The findings of the AP's investigation are included in the report "Locatefamily.com on
lack of legal representative within the EU”, adopted on 25 July 2019 (hereinafter:
research report).
 

                                                                        
6 Scheme, appendix 2 to the research report.
7 Minutes conference call, appendix 5 to the research report.
8 Letter to Privacy Commissioner of Canada, Appendix 6 to the Investigation Report.
9 Letter to Locatefamily.com dated 8 April 2019 regarding 19 complaints from Dutch data subjects regarding requests for
data erasure, appendix 7 to the investigation report.
10 Emails from Locatefamily.com to AP regarding data erasure requests, Appendix 8 to the Investigation Report.
11 Privacy Commissioner of Canada Notice dated May 28, 2019, Annex 9 to the Investigation Report.
12 Email exchange with Locatefamily.com, appendix 12 to the research report.

 

 

3/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
On February 24, 2020, the AP informed Locatefamily.com via digital transmission13 of its intention to
enforcement together with the aforementioned investigation report and the underlying
documentation, whereby Locatefamily.com has also been given the opportunity to submit no later than March 23, 2020
to express an opinion. Locatefamily.com has not used this opportunity to date
made.
 
Based on the report with findings and the underlying documentation, the AP comes to the
determination of the following relevant facts.
 
Locatefamily.com
Locatefamily.com offers with its website a platform for anyone looking for contact details
of acquaintances whom they have lost sight of due to the so-called name and address details of those involved,
name, address, place of residence and sometimes the telephone number. Locatefamily.com offers
this data free of charge to any interested party. The website is publicly accessible and contains
data of residents from both inside and outside the EU.14 Locatefamily.com compiles the overviews
of data together without the data subject becoming a member of the platform or having to create an account
to make.15 Research carried out by the AP together with its European fellow supervisors shows
showed that Locatefamily.com has offered its services in the Netherlands as well as in eight other EU
to land. Several EU supervisors have confirmed that data subjects from the relevant
countries complaints have been filed regarding Locatefamily.com.16
 
Place of business/representation
On the Locatefamily.com website there is neither a privacy contact person nor a business address and/or
representative address.
 
In response to the AP's question to Locatefamily.com whether it has a representative or a branch
in the EU,17 Locatefamily.com has stated the following on July 2, 2018:18
 

“LocateFamiÏy.com is not located in the European Union and does not have any business relationships in the
European Union. We do not have an office or a representative in the European Union. LocateFamily.com does
not offer goods or services to the European Union.
We are available to respond to any questions you may have regarding the complaints you mention. If you provide
us with the names of the individuals and or their e-mail addresses we can provide you with a report that indicates
when the removal request was received and when the information was removed.”

 

                                                                        
13 By email to legal@locatefamily.com and info@locatefamily.com.
14 Print screen dated July 29, 2019 business model Locatefamily.com, appendix 10 to the research report.
15 Print screens Locatefamily.com, appendix 10 to the research report.
16 IMI report (Internal Market Information System) with the request to EU supervisors and their responses, Annexes 3 and 4 to
the research report. Complaints from other EU regulators regarding Locatefamily.com, Appendix 11 to the Investigation Report.
17 Email exchange with Locatefamily.com, appendix 12 to the research report.
18 E-mail of 2 July 2018, appendix 12 to the research report.

 

 

4/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
On July 19, 2018, when asked by the AP where Locatefamily.com's head office is located,
the following message: 19

 
“As we have already explained in our previous email, we have no business relationships in the European Union,
and we do not have an office or a representative in the European Union. We also do not offer goods or services to
the European Union.
To be clear we are not situated in any country of the European Union.
We respect the wishes of people who want their address information removed from the web site, and the
information is removed within a few days, regardless of which country the individual resides in.
Consequently we are puzzled as to why you would you need to know where we are situated.”

 
Furthermore, European supervisors have indicated that there is no branch or representative of
Locatefamily.com was found in the relevant country where those regulators are located.
 
From technical research conducted by the AP regarding the web host of the website
Locatefamily.com has revealed that Locatefamily.com may be based in Canada.20 From the
international cooperation with fellow supervisors has emerged that a
representative of Locatefamily.com in the EU is missing and that the number of complaints in both
the Netherlands as in other EU member states.21
 
The subsequent request of March 25, 2019 from the AP on behalf of the cooperating European
regulators, to the Privacy Commissioner of Canada22 to verify who is the contracting party to the
web host of the Locatefamily.com website, in order to be able to find the location address of Locatefamily.com
tracing, has not yet yielded any concrete indications about the location of
Locatefamily.com.

Consultation by the AP of the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands also has
no results with regard to Locatefamily.com.23 The other EU supervisors have
performs a similar desk search, nor does a Locatefamily.com registration or a
Locatefamily.com representative found. The European Justice Portal (E-Justice portal)24
also does not contain information about a location and/or representative of Locatefamily.com in the
EU.25

                                                                        
19 E-mail of 19 July 2018, appendix 12 to the investigation report.
20 Scheme, appendix 2 to the research report.
21 Minutes conference call, appendix 5 to the research report.
22 Letter to Privacy Commissioner of Canada, Appendix 6 to the Investigation Report.
23 Chamber of Commerce consultation, appendix 14 to the research report.
24 https://e-justice.europa.eu/content_find_a_company-489-en.do [accessed 25 July 2019].
25 Print screen e-Justice portal survey, appendix 13 to the research report. “The European e-Justice Portal is intended to be a “one-stop
shop” on the Internet for information on European judicial issues and legal procedures. The portal focuses on citizens,
companies, lawyers and the judiciary. Citizens should have equal access to justice in other Member States
as in their own Member State, and the European e-Justice Portal helps to remove obstacles in a practical way

 

 

5/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

Complaints
In the investigation period from May 25, 2018 to July 25, 2019, the AP received nineteen complaints
regarding Locatefamily.com. Research by European fellow supervisors has shown that
Complaints have also been submitted in other EU Member States by data subjects from the countries concerned
regarding the website of Locatefamily.com.26
 
2. Legal framework
 
2.1 Scope GDPR
 
Pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to the whole or in part
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data contained in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, this regulation applies to the processing of
personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a
controller or a processor in the Union, whether or not the processing takes place in the Union
does not take place.
 
Pursuant to Article 3, second paragraph, of the GDPR, this regulation applies to the processing of
personal data of data subjects who are located in the Union by a person not established in the Union
controller or processor, when the processing is related to:
a) the offering of goods or services to those data subjects in the Union, whether or not a payment is made by
data subjects is required; or
(b) monitoring their behaviour, insofar as this behavior takes place in the Union.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR:
1. “Personal Data”: any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); is considered identifiable a natural person who can directly or indirectly
be identified, in particular by an identifier such as a name, a
identification number, location data, […].
2) “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes, such as the
collecting, recording, organizing, structuring, storing, updating or changing, retrieving, consulting,
use, provide by transmission, distribution or otherwise available

                                                                        
for example by providing information in 23 languages and a large number of links to relevant websites and documents. Although the
responsibility for the content and management of the portal is shared between the European Commission and the individual
Member States of the European Union, the European Commission is the data controller for the
European e-Justice Portal.”
26 IMI report (Internal Market Information System) with the request to EU supervisors and their responses, Annexes 3 and 4 to
the research report.

 

 

6/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
compile, align or combine, block, erase or destroy data; […].
7) “Controller”: a natural or legal person, a public authority, a
agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purpose and means of the
determines the processing of personal data; when the objectives of and the means for this
processing are set out in Union or Member State law, they may specify who
the controller is or according to which criteria it is designated; […].
8) 'processor' means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other
body that processes personal data on behalf of the controller;
17) “Representative” means a natural or legal person established in the Union who, by virtue of
of Article 27 has been designated in writing by the controller or processor to carry out the
controller or the processor in connection with their respective
obligations under this Regulation.
 
2.2 Representatives of controllers not established in the Union
 
Article 27 of the GDPR stipulates the following:
1. Where Article 3(2) applies, the controller or processor shall designate
in writing to a representative in the Union.
2. The obligation contained in paragraph 1 of this Article does not apply to: a) incidental processing which does not
large-scale processing of special categories of personal data as referred to in Article 9(1)
does not concern the processing of personal data related to criminal convictions and
criminal offenses as referred to in Article 10, and where there is little chance that it poses a risk to the public
rights and freedoms of natural persons, taking into account the nature, context, size and
the processing purposes; or b) a government agency or body.
3. The representative is established in one of the Member States where the data subjects are located whose
personal data are processed in connection with the offering of goods or services to them, or whose
behavior is observed.
4. In order to ensure compliance with this Regulation, the representative shall be appointed by the
controller or the processor is authorized to act in addition to or in his place
approached, in particular by the supervisory authorities and data subjects, on all matters relating to the
processing related matters.
5. The fact that the controller or processor appoints a representative does
does not affect the possibility of bringing claims against the controller or the processor itself
to set.
 
3. Assessment
 
3.1 Processing of personal data
 
As mentioned, Locatefamily.com offers with its website a platform on which everyone can search for
contact details of acquaintances whom they have lost sight of and registers data on that basis

 

 

7/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
on its website of many stakeholders. This concerns name and address details and sometimes telephone numbers, which for each
interested are visible.
 
Directly identifying data is when data relates to a person
whose identity can be unequivocally established without much detour. Directly identifying data
are data such as name, address, date of birth, which in combination with each other are so unique and therefore
characterize a particular person that it is widely known with certainty or to a great extent
of probability, can be identified. Such data will be in the civic
traffic is also used to distinguish people from each other.27
 
Name, address and place of residence data make those involved directly identifiable and can therefore be traced
qualify as personal data within the meaning of Article 4, opening words, and under 1, of the GDPR.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, first paragraph and Article 3, second paragraph, of the GDPR, the GDPR applies to the
fully or partially automated processing of personal data of data subjects who are in the
Union, by a controller or processor not established in the Union, when
the processing is related to the offering of goods or services to these data subjects in the
Union.
 
By registering, digitally storing and making this personal data available through it
website Locatefamily.com, there is an automated processing of personal data.
 
The AP comes to the conclusion that there is a processing of personal data which, according to
aforementioned provisions, the GDPR applies.
 
3.2 Controller
 
In the context of the question of who is or can be regarded as the controller(s) as referred to in
Article 4, preamble, and under 7, of the GDPR determines who has the purpose of and the means for the processing
of personal data.
 
The Locatefamily.com Privacy Policy states the following:28
 

“LocateFamily.com does not redistribute information, e-mail addresses, or information obtained from
communications with individuals regarding LocateFamily.com, to any third parties. Information displayed on
LocateFamily.com is collected and maintained by LocateFamily.com for sole use by LocateFamily.com.”

 
Locatefamily.com also states on its website:29
 

                                                                        
27 TK 1997-1998, 25 892, no. 3, p.48.
28 Privacy policy, appendix 12 to the research report.
29 Print screen https://www.locatefamily.com/Iegal.html, 4/19/2019, appendix 10 to the research report.

 

 

8/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

“LocateFamily.com updates its database on a regular basis to ensure that the information displayed continues to
be valid.” […] “LocateFamily.com makes the information in its pages available as is and does not warrant the
veracity of the information. The sole intent of making the data available is purely for informational purposes.”
[…]. “Information displayed on LocateFamily.com is property of LocateFamily.com and its interests.”

 
Locatefamily.com is according to this Privacy Policy and explanatory notes on its website
controller. For example, Locatefamily.com determines what the data is used for, who
can receive the personal data, and whether it provides personal data to third parties outside the
European Union.30
 
Processing of personal data by Locatefamily.com takes place with the aim of making it available
for anyone looking for a particular person who has lost track of them. This
service is provided free of charge for family reunions, school reunions and the like. It
means for the processing of personal data in this case concerns the registration of personal data
on the Locatefamily.com website.
 
It is also important that Locatefamily.com, in response to the AP's message regarding the
complaints about the handling of requests for removal, has responded to those requests
and proceeded to remove the personal data of those involved
website.31
 
In view of the foregoing, Locatefamily.com has control over how Locatefamily.com
the rights of data subjects and the processing of personal data are dealt with
data subjects and determines the purpose and means of this processing.
 
Locatefamily.com therefore qualifies as a controller as referred to in Article 4, opening words,
and under 7 of the GDPR.
 
3.3 Representative Appointment Violation
 
Pursuant to Article 27, paragraph 1, when Article 3,
paragraph 2 of the GDPR applies, in writing to a representative in the Union.
  
In the present case, there is the processing of personal data of data subjects who are in the
located in the EU. When accessing the Locatefamily.com website, name, address and
residence details of persons within and, incidentally, also from outside the EU. This
personal data of, among others, EU residents are processed by Locatefamily.com to provide services
to be offered via the website, such as family reunification, school reunions, et cetera. It turned out that this
services are also aimed at residents of the EU and are offered in several EU countries.

                                                                        
30 Print screen https://www.locatefamily.com/Iegal.html, 4/19/2019, appendix 10 to the research report.
31 Response to the request of the AP dated 8 April 2019, Appendix 8 to the investigation report.

 

 

9/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
Furthermore, the investigation by the AP in collaboration with European fellow supervisors has shown
that no location or representative of Locatefamily.com has been found in the relevant EU
member state. Consultation of the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands by the AP
has also yielded no results with regard to Locatefamily.com.32 The other EU
regulators have conducted a similar desk investigation and no record of either
Locatefamily.com or a Locatefamily.com representative found. When consulting the
European Justice Portal (E-Justice portal) there is also no branch and/or representative
found in the EU. There is neither a privacy contact nor a privacy contact on the Locatefamily.com website
business address and/or representative address.

 
Based on the research findings, it can be determined that in the case of Locatefamily.com
there is a controller not established in the EU. Moreover, this has been shown
that a representative as defined in Article 4, preamble, and under 17, of the GDPR, is not
designated in the EU as required in Article 27, paragraph 1, of the GDPR.
Locatefamily.com also confirmed this to the AP. In response to the AP's question
Locatefamily.com of June 26, 2018 whether it has a representative or an establishment in the EU, has
Locatefamily.com on July 2, 2018 indicated that it is not located in the EU nor has an office or
representative in the EU.
 
With the applicability of Article 3, second paragraph, of the GDPR, the obligation under Article 27,
first paragraph, of the GDPR to designate a representative in the EU, unless one of the
two exceptions of Article 27, paragraph 2, of the GDPR.
 
These exceptions do not apply in the case of Locatefamily.com. From the research findings
it has become apparent that there is no question of incidental processing, nor of a situation in which the
controller is a public authority or body.
 
From the above, the AP concludes that Locatefamily.com is established outside the EU
controller has acted contrary to Article 27, first paragraph, in conjunction with Article 3, second
member, of the GDPR, by failing to appoint a representative in the EU in writing.
 

3.4 Conclusion
 
In view of the foregoing, the AP is of the opinion that Locatefamily.com Article 27, first paragraph, of the GDPR,
read in conjunction with Article 3, second paragraph, of the AVG, has violated, now that they are in the period of
May 25, 2018 to date has not fulfilled the obligation to provide a representative in writing such as
defined in Article 4, opening lines, and under 17, of the GDPR, in the EU. The violation lasts
currently on.
 
                                                                        
32 Chamber of Commerce consultation, appendix 14 to the research report.

 

 

10/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
4. Fine
 
4.1 Introduction
 
In view of the violation established above, the AP sees reason to use it
jurisdiction under Article 58, second paragraph, opening words and under i, in conjunction with Article 83, fourth paragraph,
preamble and under a of the AVG and Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, to impose a fine on
Locatefamily.com. The AP applies the Fining Policy Rules 2019.33 for this
 
Pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 4, under a, of the GDPR, violations of Article 27 of the GDPR are
subject to administrative fines of up to €10,000,000 in accordance with paragraph 2 or, for a
company, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if this figure
is higher.
 
4.2 Fining Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fining Policy Rules 2019)
 
The AP has established Fining Policy Rules 2019 regarding the implementation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.1, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the provisions regarding violation
of which the AP can impose an administrative fine not exceeding the amount of € 10,000,000 […] in
annex 1 classified in category I, category II or category III. In Annex 1, the violation of Article 27,
first paragraph, of the AVG classified in category III.

 

Pursuant to Article 2.3 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP sets the basic fine for violations
for which a statutory maximum fine of € 10,000,000 applies [...] fixed within the period stipulated in that article
penalty bandwidths. The following applies to violations in category III of Appendix 1 of the 2019 Fining Policy Rules
a fine bandwidth between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Pursuant to Article 6 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP determines the amount of the fine by the amount
from the basic fine upwards (up to a maximum of the bandwidth of the
offense linked penalty category) or down (to at least the minimum of that
bandwidth). The basic fine is increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the
factors referred to in Article 7 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019 give cause to do so.

 

Pursuant to Article 7 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of
the General Administrative Law Act (Awb) takes into account the following factors derived from Article 83,
second paragraph, of the AVG, in the Policy Rules referred to under a to k:
a. the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the harm suffered by them
injury;
                                                                        
33 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

11/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the breach;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to mitigate the losses suffered by data subjects
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible in view of the technical and
organizational measures he has implemented in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data affected by the breach;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the breach, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, second paragraph, of the GDPR, insofar as they are earlier
in respect of the controller […] in question in relation to the same
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, which may or may not result directly from the breach
result.
 
Pursuant to Article 8.1 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP may, if the
fine category does not allow for an appropriate punishment in the concrete case, when determining the amount of
the fine the fine bandwidth of the next higher category or the fine bandwidth of the
apply next to lower category.
 
Pursuant to Article 9 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP, when setting the fine,
taking into account the financial circumstances of the offender. In case of reduced or
insufficient capacity of the offender, the AP can further moderate the fine to be imposed, if,
after application of article 8.1 of the policy rules, determination of a fine within the fine range
of the next lower category would, in its opinion, nevertheless lead to a disproportionately high fine.

 

4.3 Fine amount

 

According to the AP, the following factors mentioned in Article 7 are particularly relevant in this case
determining the fine amount:
a. the nature, seriousness and duration of the breach;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the breach (culpability);
c. the measures taken by the controller or processor to
mitigate the damage suffered by those involved.
 

 

 

12/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

4.3.1 Nature, seriousness and duration of the breach
 
Pursuant to Article 7, preamble and under a, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the nature,
the seriousness and duration of the infringement. The AP takes into account the number, among other things, in its assessment
affected parties and the extent of the damage suffered by them.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Under Article 8(1) of the Charter and Article 16(1) of the Convention on the
functioning of the European Union (TFEU), everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data.
The principles and rules regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of their
personal data must comply with their fundamental rights and freedoms,
in particular with their right to the protection of personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the
creation of an area of freedom, security and justice and of an economic union, as well as to
economic and social progress, the strengthening and convergence of economies within the
internal market and the well-being of natural persons. The processing of personal data must
at the service of man. The right to the protection of personal data is not absolute,
but must be considered in relation to its function in society and must conform to it
principle of proportionality against other fundamental rights. Any processing of
personal data must be done properly and lawfully. It serves for natural persons
to be transparent that personal data concerning them is collected, used, consulted or
otherwise processed and to what extent the personal data are or will be processed.
 
Where a controller or processor not established in the Union processes personal data
of data subjects located in the Union, and the processing is related to the
offer of goods or services - whether or not payment is required by the data subjects - to those
data subjects located in the Union or monitoring their conduct in the Union, the
the controller or the processor to designate a representative, unless the processing
incidental, not the large-scale processing of special categories of personal data, or the
processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences
and, given its nature, context, scope and processing purposes, unlikely to be a risk
affects the rights and freedoms of natural persons, or unless the controller
is a government agency or body.34
 
In any case, since May 25, 2018, Locatefamily.com has not fulfilled its obligation to provide in writing
appoint a representative in the EU. In the study period from May 25, 2018 to July 25, 2019
the AP has received nineteen complaints regarding Locatefamily.com. These complaints are irrelevant
complying with requests from data subjects for data erasure and the lack of an establishment
representative of Locatefamily.com in the EU. This has also been established by other EU Member States
similar complaints have been received regarding Locatefamily.com. This highlights the importance of the
presence of a representative in the EU acting on behalf of the controller
acts in relation to its obligations under the GDPR. For the
                                                                        
34 Recital 80 of the GDPR.

 

 

13/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

safeguarding the rights of data subjects, as laid down in the GDPR, is also of fundamental importance
responsible organizations based outside the EU that offer services in the EU, in the
be accessible to both data subjects and the supervisory authorities in all areas of practice
processing related matters. In fact, those involved in the EU lack one
counter to which they can turn if they want to exercise their rights under the GDPR. Mead
in view of the number of affected parties involved and the duration of the violation, in the opinion of the AP
a serious violation.
 
The AP sees no reason in this to change the basic amount of the fine pursuant to Article 7, under a, of the
Increase or decrease the 2019 fine policy rules.
 
4.3.2 Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability)
 
Pursuant to Section 5:46(2) of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
take into account the extent to which this can be attributed to the offender. Pursuant to Article 7(b)
of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement.
Since this concerns a violation, the imposition of an administrative fine is in accordance with fixed rules
case law35 does not require that it be demonstrated that there is intent and the AP is allowed culpability
assume if the perpetrator is established.36
 
There has been no evidence of circumstances on the basis of which it could be concluded that no
there is an obligation for Locatefamily.com to appoint a representative in the EU.
With regard to the knowledge that a standard addressee - in this case Locatefamily.com - has of the
applicable laws and regulations is deemed to have the position that is based on te
apply that market parties bear their own responsibility to comply with the law.37 If
doubts had arisen about the scope of the commandment, then, also according to settled case law, that should apply
of a professional and multinational market party such as Locatefamily.com
is required to inform itself properly or to be informed about the restrictions to which it is subject
behaviors are subject, so that she could have geared her behavior to the
scope of that commandment.38
 
In light of the above, the AP therefore considers the violation to be culpable.
 
4.3.3 Other Circumstances and Proportionality
 

                                                                        
35 Cf. CBb 29 October 2014, ECLI:NL:CBB:2014:395, r.o. 3.5.4, CBb 2 September 2015, ECLI:NL:CBB:2015:312, r.o. 3.7 and CBb 7 March 2016,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:54, r.o. 8.3, ABRvS 29 August 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:2879, r.o. 3.2 and ABRvS December 5, 2018,
ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:3969, r.o. 5.1.
36 Parliamentary Papers II 2003/04, 29702, no. 3, p. 134.
37 Cf. CBb 25 June 2013, ECLI:NL:CBB:2013:4, r.o. 2.3, CBb 25 January 2017, ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:14, r.o. 5.2, CBb March 8, 2017,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:91, r.o. 6.
38 Cf. CBb 22 February 2012, ECLI:NL:CBB:2012:BV6713, r.o. 4.3, CBb 19 September 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:290, r.o. 8.6., CBb 19
September 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:372, r.o. 6.3.

 

 

14/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP also sees no reason to increase the basic amount of the fine of € 525,000 on the basis of the other
circumstances referred to in Article 7 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, insofar as applicable in the
case, to increase or decrease.
 
The application of the policy for determining the amount of the fine is appropriate given the circumstances
of the specific case does not lead to a disproportionate outcome.
 
4.3.4 Conclusion

 

In view of all the circumstances of this case, including the nature, duration and seriousness of the infringement, the AP considers
a fine of € 525,000 is appropriate and required.

5. Order subject to periodic penalty payments

5.1 Charge
 
Since it is a continuous violation, it should be ended as soon as possible. For those
reason, in addition to the aforementioned fine, the AP imposes an order subject to periodic penalty payments pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph,
preamble and under d of the AVG, article 16, first paragraph, of the UAVG and article 5:32, first paragraph, of the Awb.
 
This means that Locatefamily.com still complies with the obligation as included in Article 27,
paragraph 1 of the GDPR and appoint a representative in the EU in writing.
 
5.2 Period of grace and penalty amount
 
The AP attaches a grace period of twelve weeks to the order subject to periodic penalty payments. This period
In the opinion of the AP, Locatefamily.com offers sufficient opportunity to commit the violation
to cancel.
 
Article 5:32b, third paragraph, of the Awb stipulates that the penalty amounts must be in reasonable proportion
to the seriousness of the violated interest and to the intended effect of the penalty. At that last one
It is important that a penalty must provide such an incentive that the order is complied with.

 

If Locatefamily.com does not end the observed violation within twelve weeks, it will forfeit
after the end of that grace period, for every two weeks that the payment has not been (fully) met, one
penalty. The AP sets the amount of this penalty for every two weeks after the end of the
fixed at an amount of € 20,000 (in words: twenty thousand euros), up to a
maximum amount of € 120,000 in total (in words: one hundred and twenty thousand euros).
 
If Locatefamily.com forfeit the penalty immediately after the end of the beneficiary period
wishes to avoid, the AP recommends Locatefamily.com to provide evidence - which Locatefamily.com

 

 

15/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
can demonstrate that it complies with the order subject to periodic penalty payments - in good time, but no later than one week before the end
of the beneficiary period to the AP for assessment.

6. Operative part

fine
 
The AP informs Locatefamily.com, due to violation of article 27, first paragraph, of the GDPR,
read in conjunction with article 3, second paragraph, of the GDPR, in the period from 25 May 2018 to the present, a
administrative fine in the amount of €525,000 (in words: five hundred and twenty-five thousand euros).39
 
Load under duress
 
Locatefamily.com must be submitted within twelve weeks of the date and with due observance of this decision
take measures to ensure that a representative is designated in writing in the EU.
 
If Locatefamily.com does not take the measures within twelve weeks of the date of this decision
has performed to (fully) comply with the order, Locatefamily.com forfeits a penalty of
€ 20,000 (in words: twenty thousand euros) for every two weeks after the end of the beneficiary period,
up to a maximum amount of € 120,000 in total (in words: one hundred and twenty thousand euros).
 
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
 
 
 
drs. C.E. Mur,
Board member
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                        
39 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

16/17



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decides to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In accordance
Article 38 of the UAVG suspends the effect of the decision until submitting a notice of objection
imposition of an administrative fine. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for submission on paper
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
Mention 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'bezwaarschrift' in the title of your letter.
Write in your notice of objection at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your objection;
- the reference referred to in this letter (case number); or enclose a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you disagree with this decision;
- your signature.

 

 

17/17

