1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00413/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 26, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system on his plot of land.
***ADDRESS.1, regarding which there are indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the data protection regulations. The aforementioned system would be oriented
towards the claimant's property and towards the public road that serves as access to
that and also would not have an information poster.

The claimant attaches a photographic report.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

The aforementioned claim was returned due to "absent distribution" on 10/01/2019,
reiterating the transfer on 10/09/2019, reiteration again returned by
"delivery absent" on 10/25/2019.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 14
November 2019.

FOURTH: On February 18, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringements of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), typified in the
article 83.5 of the aforementioned standard.

FIFTH: Since the notification of the initiation agreement was unsuccessful,
proceeded to publish an announcement of notification in the Single Edictal Board of the Bulletin
State Official on June 5, 2020, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

SIXTH: On July 31, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, requiring the Aspe City Council
so that, prior to transfer to the scene of the events, the Local Police issued the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

corresponding report confirming the effective address of the person claimed, the
existence of the video surveillance system, the orientation of the cameras and the
collection of these with the timely delimitation of the public or private nature of the
mentioned catchment area as well as the existence or not of an information poster.

Aspe City Council has not responded to the request made.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: In the photographs provided by the claimant together with his letter of 26
July 2019, some camera-shaped devices can be seen found
located on the farm located in *** ADDRESS.1 with orientation towards the outside of the
estate.

SECOND: The respondent has not presented arguments.

THIRD: The Aspe City Council has not issued the requested report in the period
test practice.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, which states that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed
(“data minimization”).” This article enshrines the principle of minimization of
data in the processing of personal data. Assume that such treatment is
adjusted and proportional to the purpose to which it is directed, and the
treatment of excessive data or proceed to the deletion of the same.

Likewise, the commission for violation of article 13 of the RGPD, regarding the
information that must be provided when the data is obtained from the interested party, which
establishes that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

Infractions are typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; […].”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

III

In the present case, it is appropriate to analyze the presumed illegality of the installation of a
video surveillance system composed of several cameras facing the outside
of the farm located at ***ADDRESS.1.

The facts of this sanctioning procedure reveal the existence
of some devices with the appearance of cameras oriented towards the outside of the farm
that could respond to security purposes. Regarding the possibility of having
video surveillance cameras, article 22 of the LOPDGDD, regarding treatments with
video surveillance purposes, provides that, in order to ensure the security of
people and property, images of public thoroughfares may be captured "to the extent that
is essential", in accordance with the principle of data minimization
established in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

Taking into account the foregoing, in the event that it is a question of guaranteeing the
security of an area of access to a property or its perimeter, the area of public roads
captured should be kept to a minimum. This means that, to ensure the safety
of the access to the farm, the images can reach a part or portion of the road
public, but it would not be considered proportionate to capture even the entirety of a path of
access or the affectation of adjoining properties.

On the other hand, with regard to compliance with the duty of information contained in the
article 12 of the RGPD, article 13 of the same legal text provides the information that
must be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party,
situation that occurs in cases of image capture by a system of
video surveillance. In this sense, article 22.4 of the LOPGDD establishes that "The
duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information."

Notwithstanding what is stated in the preceding paragraphs, in this proceeding there has been no
It has been possible to prove that the indicated devices are in operation or
its field of recording, so the principle of the right to information must come into play
presumption of innocence, recognized as a fundamental subjective right in the
article 24 of the Spanish Constitution.

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of the LPACAP, which establishes that:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

This right prevents the imposition of an administrative sanction when no
and verified a supporting evidence of the facts that motivate the
imputation or intervention in the same of the alleged offender. In this sense,
the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 76/1990, of April 26, considers that the
right to the presumption of innocence entails: “that the sanction be based on acts
or evidence of charge or incriminating of the reproached conduct; that
burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove
his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the result of the tests
practiced, freely valued by the sanctioning body, must be translated into a
acquittal pronouncement.”

IV

Based on the foregoing, in this case it has not been possible to determine the
carrying out any infringing conduct within the framework of the matter at hand,
reason why it is appropriate to order the Archive of this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 and
REPORT the result of the AAA actions.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-300320

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

