1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00118/2019
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. ***ADDRESS.1 -representative Don B.B.B.-- (*hereinafter, the
claimant) dated November 13, 2018 filed a claim with the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by data processing
carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system whose owner is
ZUMOLANDIA GELATO (C.C.C.) with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter the claimed one)
installed in Avenida del Puerto 6-Local-Sada-A Coruña.

The reasons on which the claim is based are that "in the Local Zumolandia
Gelato there are two cameras installed inside the premises focused on the outside of the
same (terraces and public roads)” –folio nº 1--.

Together with the claim, it provides a Report from the local Police, as well as evidence
Documentary (photographs) that confirm the absence of an information poster in the area
Outside, only a sign of the company Securitas Direct S.A. can be seen.

SECOND: On 11/30/18, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, so that as responsible for the installation of the video-
surveillance proceeded to allege in law what it considered appropriate, including that the
It complied with the regulations in force, appearing as notified for the purposes
appropriate legal.

THIRD: On 01/03/19 a first brief of allegations is received from the party
denounced acknowledging being responsible for the installation, which has been
carried out by the company Securitas Direct S.A, which is made up of two
cameras in the Zumolandia Gelato establishment for the purpose of protecting it
against possible theft.

FOURTH: On 01/05/2019, this Agency received a letter from Don D.D.D.,
identifying himself as President of the Community of owners, noting that the
system remains the same and that in his opinion it records the public thoroughfare, although he does not provide evidence
some in the above sense.

FIFTH: On October 11, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On 02/15/19, a new letter from the party is received by this body.
denounced by providing documentary evidence (photographs) that prove that he has placed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

a sign inside the establishment, although it can be seen at first glance that it has
left blank the part corresponding to the person responsible for it.

SEVENTH: On 10/28/19 a new document is received from the defendant, accrediting the
availability of informative form, as well as providing documentary evidence
(photograph no. 1) that proves the indication of the person responsible for the file on the poster
informative.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 11/13/19, this AEPD received a claim motivated by the
alleged data processing carried out through cameras of a security system
video surveillance whose owner is ZUMOLANDIA GELATO.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. C.C.C., who does not
deny the facts.

Third. The existence of an informative poster inside the premises is verified, although
the same initially did not indicate the person in charge, proceeding to modify it after the
notification of the Initiation Agreement (Exhibit Doc. No. 2).

Fourth. The respondent has proceeded to obtain information form(s) available
of the clients.

Fifth. It is accredited that the poster provided, refers to a regulation
repealed, as is the LOPD (LO 15/99, December 13), limiting its action to
put the name on the old sign you already owned.

Sixth. There is no evidence that the system obtains images of the exterior of the
establishment, only inside it, obeying the installation for reasons of
security.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim 11/13/18 is examined through the
which the denouncing party reports as the main fact the following:

“In the Local Zumolandia Gelato there are two cameras installed inside the

premises focused on the outside of it (terraces and public roads)” –folio nº 1--.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Furthermore, the non-existence of an informative poster in the
exterior of the Premises indicating that it is a video-monitored area, indicating in its
case the person in charge of the system in question.

Article 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the

Next:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
that of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in articles
15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the device
informative a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”.

The information poster must be installed in an area visible to customers

of the establishment, who must be informed of their rights.

In addition, you must have inside the establishment some
forms in case of exercising any "client" the rights recognized in the
regulations in force.

You can obtain a type model on the Internet and adapt it, it will suffice to indicate in
bold Right of access, the person in charge of the system, a space for the
hypothetical affected fill in your data (Name, surnames, DNI and address of
answer), what you request and inform you about the possibility of contacting, in your case,
a competent Control Authority, and, finally, place for the date and signature.

III

According to the data in the file and despite the
indications of this organization, the poster initially sent did not indicate
expressly the person responsible for the processing of personal data, as
indicates the regulations in force, since he has only placed the poster, but it is
blank as to the person in charge, which effectively prevents the exercise of
right of any hypothetical affected party.

The exposed facts could suppose the commission, on the part of the defendant of
an infringement of article 12 of the RGPD, in the terms referred to both in the aforementioned
article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, and the respondent must give
due compliance with the provisions of article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of 8
November, from the Spanish Data Protection Agency. Consequently, the
claimed must:

Place in the video-monitored areas, at least one informative badge
located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 RGPD, in the distinctive
aforementioned information must identify, at least, the existence of
a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the
rights provided for in said precepts.

1. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

quoted GDPR;

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has committed an infraction
of the content of article 74.1 letter a) of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5).

“Breach of the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”

The known facts could constitute a minor infraction,
subject to a limitation period of one year for the purposes of article 74 LOPDGDD.

Article 71 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the following:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

In the present case, it is taken into account that it is an establishment
small, as well as the collaboration of the owner with this organism, which denotes
an attitude of complying with the regulations in force, opting therefore for the
Warning as a proposal for an administrative sanction to be imposed.

v

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

In accordance with the foregoing, it should be noted that the defendant has a
camera system that initially did not comply with current legislation, lacking
the information poster located inside the reference establishment
mandatory for the data controller.

On the occasion of the notification of the Initiation Agreement of this procedure,
the defendant has met the requirements of this Agency, proving that the
sign indicates the "responsible for the treatment" to whom to contact and that it has a form
(s) available to customers.

It is recalled that the poster provided, refers to a repealed regulation
such as Law 15/99, December 13 (LOPD), in such a way that it must be
adjust to the current legal basis: RGPD and LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5),
containing the same reference to the rights to be exercised by those affected in the
framework of the arts 12 to 22 GDPR.

It is also recalled that in your case the outdoor terrace area cannot

be subject to control of any kind, as it is a public space.

Therefore, according to what has been stated

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO WARN the accused party ZUMOLANDIA GELATO
(C.C.C.), by having an information poster that does not comply with current regulations,
granting it a period of one month to proceed to replace the existing one with one
new that adjusts to the exposed legal basis, for this reason:

-You must provide documentary evidence (photograph) of the new poster adapted to the

regulations in force.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity ZUMOLANDIA GELATO
(C.C.C.) and REPORT the result of the actions to the complainant A.A.A
***ADDRESS 1

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

