

press releases


Press release: Saxon data protection officer takes over the chair of the German data protection conference


 
To press

 
e-mail


In 2020, the Saxon data protection officer Andreas Schurig will chair the conference of the 18 independent federal and state data protection supervisory authorities. He takes over this task from the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate and chairman of the data protection conference in 2019, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman.
Schurig, mathematician and theologian, has held the position of data protection officer for Saxony since 2004. In 2009 and 2015 he was re-elected by the Saxon state parliament with a large majority. His authority currently employs around 30 employees who supervise the approximately 180,000 companies, 29,000 associations, 2.2 million private households and numerous public bodies in Saxony with regard to their handling of personal data.
The data protection conference resolves the joint demands of the data protection officers on politics and companies. It relies on its specialist working groups such as “Justice”, “Science and Research” or “Employee Data Protection”.
In practice, the handover of the presidency from Rhineland-Palatinate to Saxony will take place on January 28 and 29, 2020 in Berlin. On January 28th, the 14th European Data Protection Day, still organized by Rhineland-Palatinate, will take place there under the motto "Artificial Intelligence - Between Promotion and Taming". The 1st conference, chaired by Saxony, will take place on January 29th. Topics will include the medical informatics initiative of the Federal Ministry of Education and Research and a positioning on Windows 10.
Schurig will have the general motto “Informational self-determination” for his year as chairman. “Self-determination is still the most important value of data protection. In view of the internet giants, we have to ensure more than ever that individuals can freely decide how their data is used,” says Schurig.
More information at
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/
Download/print as PDF file
