
On Thursday, March 23, 2023, Director Zdravko Vukić and Agency officials held a guest lecture on the topic "Legal framework for the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia" as part of the Administrative Informatics with Statistics course in the 1st year of professional Administrative Studies - Faculty of Law, Split. and at the invitation of associate professor Ph.D. Marije Boban, Head of the Institute for Economic, Financial and Information Sciences and Statistics, Head of the Department of Information Sciences and Statistics.
Since the protection of personal data is an integral part of the teaching program of the course, students could hear more about the General Data Protection Regulation and its scope of application, as well as about the independent supervisory body, i.e. the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and the activities carried out by the Agency directly from the leader. bodies.
"The right to protect personal data is a democratic imperative, but it is also an economic necessity. Misuse of personal data deeply undermines trust, security and privacy as indispensable segments of every person's personality. Without the trust of individuals in the way their personal data is handled, the sustainable growth of the European economy based on data is impossible," said director Zdravko Vukić and wished the students success in their further studies and to successfully protect their own and other people's personal data.
Also, the topic of the lecture was the Law on the Implementation of the General Regulation on Data Protection, which ensures the implementation of the Regulation, but also regulates certain issues that are not defined by the Regulation, such as defining the term public authority, the age limit for offering information society services directly to a child, processing biometric and genetic data, processing of personal data through video surveillance, etc.
Before the lecture, the director Zdravko Vukić and his colleagues were received by the dean of the Split Faculty of Law, associate professor, Ph.D. Ratko Brnabić and the future cooperation between AZOP and the Split Faculty of Law was agreed upon.
































