 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 
 
 
 
 
 

711.433.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December 4, 2020

Data protection is not an obstacle to digital teaching –

Schools need support

 
Since the start of the cold season and in the face of rising Covid-19 infections
the supervisory authority for data protection again increasing inquiries from teachers,
School management and parents on the data protection-compliant use of digital learning materials. In spite of
extensive consultations and published information is provided by the Berlin representative for
Data protection and freedom of information notes that the situation in many schools has changed since
Spring has not improved and digital learning tools are still often used
are not compatible with applicable data protection law.
 
The Berlin data protection authority already published information in the spring of this year
on the data protection-compliant use of digital learning platforms and the use of
Video conferencing services for Berlin officials. In parallel, she led one
more detailed examination of various video conferencing services, the result of which was published on
July 3, 2020 and which received attention throughout Germany. the
Publication with notes on the use of video conferencing services also names
Services that can be used in compliance with data protection regulations. The use of is not permitted
products, especially when software and service providers are in the
Subject to data protection regulations, the personal data of the students
to process students for their own purposes, although they are actually bound by instructions
contractors of the schools. For schools, parents and children is then no more
recognizable what happens to the personal data. This problem is amplified
if provider data without an effective legal basis in countries outside the European
submit union.
 
The Senate Department for Education still lacks clear guidelines for selection
digital learning tools. This is technically and legally complex
Task that goes far beyond pedagogical considerations and therefore no longer the
should be imposed on school leaders and teachers. The head office is here in
the obligation to provide appropriate offers both according to pedagogical aspects and according to
to evaluate the requirements of data protection and data security and for
to make a suitable pre-selection for use in Berlin schools. For the evaluation of
The data protection authority of the education administration has data protection requirements
repeatedly offered professional support. Given the possible profound
Interventions in the fundamental rights of users of digital learning materials must also be
urgently created a legal basis for the digitization of teaching
will. This is where the legislature comes into play.
 

 
Spokeswoman: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information expressly welcomes this
The aim, with the Berlin learning space, is a state-run offer for digital
To provide lessons at Berlin schools. An examination initiated by her
Platform initially revealed significant legal and technical problems. To
an intensive exchange with the education administration in the past few months
can now see significant improvements to the platform. Even if still
not all measures required by the data protection officer have been implemented,
the Berlin learning space is now on the right track.
 
Maja Smoltczyk
"The large number of inquiries that I receive shows me that it is school management and teachers
An important concern is to provide data protection-compliant teaching and learning materials for your lessons
to use. You can no longer be left alone. After my authority since
who worked tirelessly on the subject in spring, things are finally moving forward. I would like
expressly make it clear: Data protection-compliant solutions are possible. Privacy is here neither
End in itself nor obstacle. Data protection is a fundamental right and a necessary basis for
trusting and safe working in the digital space. children and young people need
a safe space to learn. Just like them in the classroom no company above
their shoulders, they must also be allowed to learn carefree and unobserved in the digital space.
My authority will continue to work towards this.”
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has one on its website
Set of information on privacy in the pandemic released. These are
available at the following link: www.datenschutz-berlin.de/corona-pandemie
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

