Press release of the TLfDI

 

 

Order of the HmbBfDI: Prohibition of

Further processing of WhatsApp user data

through Facebook

 

 

 

 

Erfurt, May 11, 2021

 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information

(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse, hereby informs you about today's press release

of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Hamburg:

 
"Order of the HmbBfDI: Ban on further processing of WhatsApp
User Data by Facebook
The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HmbBfDI)
has issued an order that the Facebook
Ireland Ltd. prohibits
to process personal data from WhatsApp, insofar as this is your own
purposes. Immediate execution was ordered. This takes place within the framework of
Emergency procedure of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which the decree
of measures with a limited period of validity in the respective territory
provides.
 
The background to the procedure is the request to all users of
WhatsApp, the new terms of use and privacy by May 15th
agree. This allows WhatsApp far-reaching powers for a
Allow data transfer to Facebook.
 
With the new terms, data processing powers become formal
updated and expanded in future. This includes the evaluation of
Location information, the sharing of communication data of users of
Companies on WhatsApp to third-party companies expressly with reference to
Facebook, the additional purpose of ensuring the integrity of the Services as well
the cross-company verification of the account in order to use the service
to use it in an "appropriate manner". Furthermore, the use of the data for the connection
opened with products from Facebook companies. A legitimate interest for the
Data processing or for the exchange of data will also be a flat rate in the future

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
brought forward to underage users. Furthermore, the previously existing falls
Note away that WhatsApp messages are not visible to others on Facebook
to be shared.
 
After evaluating the current situation and hearing Facebook Ireland
ltd is missing for processing by Facebook for its own purposes, regardless of the
consent to the Terms of Use currently obtained by WhatsApp
sufficient legal basis. Find the Data Sharing Policy
scattered at different levels of privacy policy, they are unclear
and difficult to tell apart in their European and international versions.
In addition, they are ambiguous in terms of content and show considerable contradictions.
Even after a more detailed analysis, it is not clear what the consequences are
consent for the users. Furthermore, the approval does not take place
voluntarily, since WhatsApp consent to the new provisions as
condition for continued use of the functionalities of the service.
 
Data protection legal bases that have an independent processing authority
could be justified by Facebook are not available against this background.
In particular, Facebook cannot have an overriding legitimate interest in the
Claim processing of the data of WhatsApp users, since
whose rights and freedoms conflict. Consent is not given
transparent nor voluntary. This is especially true for children. From these
Reasons, a data protection consent as a legal reason does not come into play
consideration. The processing of the data of the users of WhatsApp is also for Facebook
not required to execute a contract.
 
The study of the new provisions has shown that the close connection
between the two companies should be further expanded so that Facebook the
WhatsApp users' data at any time for their own purposes
can use. For the areas
WhatsApp reserves the right to pass on product improvements and advertising
Facebook company without the consent of the
concerned needs. In other areas you can use it for your own purposes
already assumed in accordance with the data protection guidelines. In it or in the
FAQ is described about that for network security and prevention
of sending spam already current data of WhatsApp users such as
Phone numbers and device identifiers shared between companies
purposes
lead
supervisory authority over the actual practice of data transfer and use
it has not happened so far despite our request.
WhatsApp users are met with opaque conditions
for a far-reaching data transfer. At the same time it is claimed that
the processing described would actually not be carried out at all in order to then
at a later date gradually on the basis of the consent of
implement the legal framework established by users. This strategy
is currently taking place in particular with the newly introduced function of business
Marketing that makes it possible, including Facebook, to send
Direct mail and marketing communication across companies to data
to process.
Overall, the procedure corresponds to both with regard to
Data processing that is already being carried out according to the data protection directive,

be replaced. An investigation

the

 

- 3 -

 
 
as well as those that can be implemented by Facebook at any time, not the
requirements of the GDPR.
For this Johannes Caspar, Hamburg representative
for privacy and
Freedom of Information: “The order is intended to protect the rights and freedoms of the many millions
Secure users who throughout Germany give their consent to the
give terms of use. It applies disadvantages and harms with one
to prevent such black box processes. The privacy
Scandals in recent years from Cambridge Analytica to the recently known one
become data leak that affected more than 500 million Facebook users
were showing the magnitude and dangers of a en masse
out profiling. This not only applies to privacy, but also to
Ability to use profiles to influence voter decisions to
manipulate democratic decisions. The danger is in the face of almost 60
Millions of WhatsApp users with a view to the
September 2021 upcoming federal elections all the more concrete, since these
Desires to influence the formation of opinion
on the part of
Facebook advertisers will be woken up. The order that has now been issued relates
relates to the further processing of WhatsApp user data and is aimed at the
Address from Facebook. The worldwide criticism against the new terms of use
should give reason to fundamentally redesign the consent mechanism
rethink. Without the trust of the users, no one can open in the long run
data-based business model will be successful.”
Due to the limited time frame of the emergency order
of only three months, the HmbBfDI will be referred by the European
Data Protection Committee (EDPB) to request a decision on a European
bring about level.
 

Press contact:
Martin Schemm

Telephone: +49 40 428 54-4044

Email: presse@datenschutz.hamburg.de"

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

