MAY 25, 2020 - 2 years of application of the GDPR


We celebrate on 25 May 2020 the two-year anniversary of the effective implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (EU Regulation No 679/2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC), which triggered a new era in the field of data protection both in the European Union and in Romania.
 
If the year 2018 was marked by the adoption of the applicable national legislation (Law no. 129/2018, Law no. 190/2018), including the normative decisions of the Authority, we can say that, starting with 2019, it was given full effectiveness to monitor the correct implementation of the new Regulation and related national regulations at the level of public and private sector operators.
 
The influx of complaints and requests for views received in these two years has been an important indicator for our institution of a real increase in public awareness of the rights they enjoy and the significant interest of operators. in compliance with the new European rules.
 
 Important for our institution was also the feedback provided by the associations and unions that participated in the debates and meetings, held also at the headquarters of the Authority, and that were involved in promoting the new conditions of use of personal data.
 
In the future, the National Supervisory Authority aims to pay equal attention to control and complaint resolution, being aware that the diversity of situations specific to the field of data protection will be a challenge for our institution, in the context of technological developments in society.
 
At the same time, having the conviction that an informed person is stronger in the relationship with the operator and relying on the desire of each of us to be informed, our institution aims to diversify actions to promote the rules of personal data processing, especially in the environment. so that they continue to be a benchmark for the Authority’s work.
 
In this context, we hope for an equally good collaboration with civil society and the media in building a true culture of data protection in Romania.
 



 Legal and Communication Department
 
 A.N.S.P.D.C.P.