1/41

 File No.: PS/00441/2021

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 06/04/2021, filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency directed against the
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF THE COMMUNITY BOARD OF CASTILLA-LA
MANCHA with NIF S1911001D (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons on which it is based
the claim are as follows:

“On August 19, 2020, I filed a complaint with the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data that consisted of TWELVE Facts perfectly delimited and independent”. "He
September 24, 2020 I received notification only and exclusively referred to the Fact
TWELVE".

"Of the rest of the Facts until now I have not had knowledge."

SECOND: Retaking the resolution of the procedure for the claim of 08/19/2020,
It must be indicated that it is resolved inadmissible for processing on 09/24/2020, notified to the
claimant and there is no record that an appeal was filed against it.

The inadmissibility resolution, file E/07538/2020, indicated in the heading:

"Regarding the documentation that has been sent to this Agency referring to MUTUA
OF WORK ACCIDENTS SOCIAL SECURITY COLLABORATOR 72
SOLIMAT confirms, first of all, its receipt."

“The identification of infractions, due to violation of security measures or due to breach of the
duty of confidentiality, is generally linked to cases in which the documentation
with personal data would have been exposed outside the scope of protection implied by the
facilities where the data is processed or with the verification of the existence of a
observation of the data processed by third parties, not appreciating in the present
sufficient documentary evidence to allow the deduction of a breach of the duty of
confidentiality or that the technical and organizational measures applied by the person in charge of the
treatment are not appropriate to guarantee a level of security adequate to the
risk. However, if you have additional documents that can prove otherwise
you can file a new claim.”

There is also a registry entry of "refusal of telework requested by the
claimant on 02/15/2019”, among other reasons, because due to the nature of the services
provided, require the physical presence of the employee and others referred to in article 2.2 of the
Royal Decree 57/2012 of 12/08 which regulates the provision of services of the
public employees teleworking in the administration of the Board of Directors
Communities of Castilla la Mancha

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/41

THIRD: On 06/8/2021, an extension of the claim of the 4th of the same
month, indicating:

Add on what was already denounced on 08/19/2020:

On documents 3 and 8 (teleworking resolution of 06/25/2019 and summons at the headquarters of
Occupational Risk Prevention Service), they were delivered without signing, returning
the documents, and they were later delivered to him for his signature in the office of the Secretary
Provincial (SP) in the presence of employees, considering that their right to
confidentiality regarding your data.

As new facts, it reveals:

a)-Requests of any kind, vacations, private matters, teleworking are made
through the application "personal of each official" CHRONOS, and shows by
the email received from the SP on 08/07/2020, which concatenates another from a Head of
Section, that "this official "could have inquired into my application without my permission"
(document 13 and 14). It is an email from the Head of Section that tells the SP: “With
dated 08/04/2020, the claimant submits a permit application through CHRONOS
by teleworking for days 08/5 and 08/2020 ""Dated today 08/05 I am trying to
reject the aforementioned request but due to technical problems inherent to the platform
CHRONOS is turning out to be impossible for me”. It indicates that that day 5, "his correct signing was
in red color”, “which appear like this when they have been modified by hand”. In the document of
registration of the application 14 that it contributes, the time of entry and exit appears, together with the addition to
hand, “they are in red”. “In addition, they have unilaterally blocked my requests for
Telecommuting carried out through the application. Contribute from document 15 to 27,
screenshots of two days per week, from 09/25/2020 to 06/2/2021, considering
"They have accessed without my consent" the SP and a Head of Service. Point out that you have
granted teleworking since 06/30/2020 due to administrative silence, and "they are putting
obstacles”, “to date I am still not enjoying it”.

b)-"I have been recording until 03/13/2020 with the fingerprint biometric data, when
there are other less intrusive means of signing”. "I have not been asked for consent." "No
the use and purpose of time control has been reported" "and above all that it was going to be used with
sanctioning purposes as has been done with me”. Contributes in documents 5, 6 and 11 the story
that on various days of different months, he attended the doctor, and he has not been counted as
effective provision of work during the time of said assistance.

c)-Due to travel restrictions, when residing in another town, he had to
request a certificate by contacting the Secretary of the Delegate, who asked him to
prepare the certificate the ID and address. Indicates that the person who performs the functions
of the Secretary does not correspond to the position that said person has been assigned, which
is an administrative assistant, and has not found the change from one position to another, and "I have
doubts that she occupies the position of Secretary of the Delegate", "and could have accessed
fraudulently to my personal data”.

d)-With the delivery of documents 51, 52, 54 and 56 I received four “instructions”, two first and
Last of the DS Health Delegate (05/14/2021, 10/16/2020 and 01/4/2021 and 05/13/2021)
third of the SP, delivered by the SP, "covered by" the Secretary of the Delegate in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/41

first document, by two people in the second, and two others in the third, whose
names and positions designates, indicating that they are people who are not part of the Service
of planning, management and inspection "and among its functions is not the access to
any type of confidential information” on files related to the investigation.

The documents are an internal note, subject: "service order instruction" in which reference is made to
the restructuring communicated on 05/10/2021, all the members of the service in which
frame, they inform you of the composition of your section and functions and collaborators, and you will be
orders to promote the processing of the files under its charge and attaches the
instruction of 4/01/2021.

The second interior note reviews the claimant's tasks, indicating files in which
must give the corresponding procedures, in accordance with article 6 of law 40/2015 on
instructions and service orders, noting that non-compliance may lead to
disciplinary correction.

the rest are similar

e)-Breach of the duty of secrecy by sending ***POINT.1 on 11/4/2020 an email
e-mail without a blind copy that summons the staff of the Delegation to practice a
serological test of COVID 19, with the information that we had to go, including a
list of names and surnames of each of the workers, along with date and time,
provide a copy of document 53. The email indicates that "I am attaching the date and time of the appointment to
those people who, having requested a rapid COVID 19 test, did not yet have it assigned"
and each employee is indicated the day and time and location. It comprises 83 people and the aforementioned
Head of Section, appears related to "Personnel Section."

f)-Lack of legitimizing basis (art 6) to treat the data private telephone number, which is
was forced to provide based on the meteorological situation produced in January 2021,
"Filomena", when developing the remote service.

 Provide a copy of an email sent to you by another employee on 01/10/2021. The email,
based on instruction 1/2021 of 01/9/2021 of the D.G. Public function motivated by
existing meteorological situation, (dictated by the competence attributed in the Decree
80/2019 of 07/16, which establishes the organic structure and powers of the
Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations), and "in view of the fact that the interested parties
are expressing their willingness to take advantage of the modality of provision of services not
face-to-face during the days of January 11 and 12, 2021 should be clarified given the
exceptionality of the situation as well as the pressing need that motivates it”, and
interprets and establishes some conditions of said instruction. It indicates that those who
find themselves in the situations described by the instruction must, apart from requesting it,
“be available to the service, providing contact telephone number and answering email
corporate, and where appropriate VPN remote control connection”

FOURTH: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), on 06/29/2021, the defendant was notified of the literal:

"The claimant... states that until March 13, 2020 he has been signing with his
fingerprint without having previously been informed of the use and purpose of the treatment

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/41

that they would carry out with your personal data, these being subsequently used to
sanction him.”

And it is requested:

“…You must analyze the claim, and send this Agency the following information:

1.- The legal basis of the treatment and, where appropriate, circumstance that lifts the prohibition
to treat special categories of data, according to article 9 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter, GDPR).”

2.- The purpose of the treatment.

3.- The adequate guarantees implemented for the protection of rights and freedoms
of people.

4.- The categories of interested parties (workers, clients, users, etc.) and the information
provided to them on the processing of data.

5.- The Impact Assessment carried out or reasons why it has not been carried out (for
know the list of personal data processing that require an evaluation of
impact, as well as any other information related to impact assessments,
You can consult the “EIPD Management” tool at https://www.aepd.es/es/guias-y-
tools/tools/manage-eipd)

6.- The decision adopted regarding this claim.

7.- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.

8.- Report on the measures adopted to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.

9.- Any other that you consider relevant.

You must also provide the documentation that appears in Annex I of this document
when the treatments refer to the assumptions that are contemplated in it.

ANNEX I

1) If the claim is related to the use of fingerprints, you must
provide the following information:

- Precise description of the operation of the instrument used to capture the
fingerprints.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/41

- Criteria used for coding and storing the captured information (if
biometric data is stored raw or if it is processed in such a way that it is only
stores a biometric template).

 - Reasons that justify the necessity and proportionality of the use of biometric data
for the intended purpose.

  - Measures taken to ensure that data reuse is not possible
biometrics for another purpose.”

Additionally, point 2 requests another type of information if the data were
treated with facial recognition techniques.

FIFTH: On 07/29/2021, a response was received stating:

1- Indicates the regulations that regulate the deduction of remuneration to employed personnel
public for the part of the workday not carried out, and which does not deduct
that is punitive in nature. This treatment is registered in the Register of Activities
of Treatment (RAT),
  available at https://rat.castillalamancha.es/detalle/1006,
called personnel management of the Ministry of Health, and as a legal basis the law
4/2011 of 10/03 of public employment in Castilla la Mancha and Royal Legislative Decree
5/2015 of 10/30 approving the law of the basic Statute of public employees and the
Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 10/23 approving the consolidated text of the
law of the basic Statute of workers. Its purpose is to manage the file of the
personnel assigned to the Ministry, civil servant, temporary and labor, time control or
staff presence.

Types of data: data related to administrative infractions, NIF, DNI, number of
Social Security, name and surname, address, telephone, signature, email, number
of personnel registration, footprint. Other data: personal, academic and
Professional financial and insurance economic employment details.

It states that the legal basis of the "time control treatment
6.1.b), 6.1.c), 6.1.e) and 9.2.b), of the GDPR.

 

 ” is based on articles

2-The General Secretary of Health provides ANNEX 1, of which the following stands out:

The Order of 09/07/2009 of the Ministry of Public Administrations and Justice on
work schedules and vacations of civil servants indicated the duration of the working day
work, the fixed hours of presence in the workplace, and their supervision. In his article
13 indicates that "all the centers and offices of the administration of the Junta de Comunidades
of Castilla la Mancha and its public bodies that have a staff of more than 15
People must equip themselves with the appropriate electronic or computer means for the
Control of staff hours. In any case, compliance with the
current regulations on the protection of personal data.”

“In the DPS of ***LOCATION.1, from ***DATE.2 to ***DATE.1, the system of
time control employee has been signed by fingerprint verification. “

It alludes to the regulations in force at the time this modality of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/41

treatment, Organic Law 15/1999, of 13/12 on the protection of personal data
(LOPD), which is understood to apply when the system is established, to the authorization for it
to article 6 of said law: "Consent will not be required when the personal data
personnel are collected for the exercise of the functions of the Administrations
public within the scope of their powers; when they refer to the parties to a contract or
pre-contract of a business, labor or administrative relationship and are necessary for its
maintenance or compliance…” .

By order of 12/5/2016, the Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations, exercising
its powers over the creation, modification and deletion of files with data of
personal nature of various Councils of the Board, determined the creation of the file
PERSONAL, Official Gazette of CLM of 12/19/2016 in which it appears mentioned, "for the
management of the Ministry's HR", in types of personal data it contains, figure
among others: "footprint".

With the entry into force of the GDPR, this file was transformed into a treatment that forms
part of the RAT called: "Personnel Management of the Department of Health".

"Following the resolution of the General Directorate of Public Function, (DGFP) of *** DATE.3,
which extends the extraordinary measures in relation to time control of the
personnel (provide a copy), employees from ***DATE.1 can use the computer
work to carry out the signing in an alternative way to the fingerprint control device
digital, in accordance with the resolution of 05/10/2020 of the DGFP, which was published in the
CHRONOS app.”

The Resolution of 05/10/2020, of the DGFP, on organizational measures and prevention of
occupational risks for the face-to-face reincorporation of personnel indicates in point 4-B-8:
”Regarding the use of biometric reading devices for signing, it is
will continue with the measure established on 03/13/2020 that makes it possible to carry out the signing through
CHRONOS through the computer of each user or user", although it is specified that
"All of this, without prejudice to the specificities and specialties of the type of personnel and
public services to be provided by each Ministry and Autonomous Organization”.

3- A copy of the "report of the Provincial Delegation of the Ministry of Health in
***LOCATION.1 regarding the information given to public employees who take
possession in the aforementioned DP on the use of personal data managed by the application
staff time control computer" requested by the General Secretary of
Health. The report is dated 07/27/2021. The following is indicated in ANNEX III:

"At the time (September 2016) they were posted on the different boards of the Delegation
Provincial, in view of all the staff, informative posters of the new transfer system
(through fingerprint), as well as the purpose of the data collected, the existence of
a file for these purposes, and of all other information forecasts included in the
regulations on data protection in force at that time.

SECOND.- That the records in the recording of the fingerprint of public employees
were always carried out by personnel assigned to the Personnel Section of the latter
Provincial Delegation (by the Head of Section in approximately 90% of cases),
who also reported the purpose of the data collected (control of compliance

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/41

of the days, control of the schedule and other regulations established in the Order of 09/07/2009,
of the Ministry of Public Administrations and Justice, on work schedules and
vacations of civil servants and concordant regulations established in the Agreement
Collective applicable at all times.

THIRD.- That during the aforementioned operation the circumstance arose that some
public employee refused to provide his fingerprint, a circumstance that was resolved
providing the employee with a code that he must enter in the biometric terminal. In this
In this case, the terminal collects the employee's code and the date and time of entry or exit.

3- The adequate guarantees for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the
interested parties, states that they are necessary to guarantee compliance with the
data protection principles included in article 5 of the GDPR. In the case of control
schedule is only used to verify the presence of the worker at his workplace
during the time established by the Administration. "As stated in the
ANNEX 1, in case of non-compliance with the schedule, the part may be reduced from the payroll
proportional to the time not worked”.

The data collected is adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the purpose,
“in the time control, only the date and time of entry/exit and the identification of the
employee, this could be the fingerprint if the biometric terminal is used”.

5- The treatment has implemented the security measures that guarantee that the data
personnel present the minimum security risks, all according to the ANALYSIS OF
RISKS of the "time control" treatment of the Ministry of Health, accompany as
copy of ANNEX IV, with the following characteristics:

a) Date 01/16/2021, “initial version”, approved by the “data protection officer”.

Tool used, "MANAGES", from the AEPD website, which is based on the response of
questions and that gives a result on the level of risk, acceptable or not.

In the RAT, the purpose is to manage the "HUMAN RESOURCES OF THE DEPARTMENT:

-Affected groups: employees

-Types of data: related to administrative infractions, NIF-DNI, name and surname,
address, telephone, signature, email, personnel registration number, fingerprint, others
data personal academic and professional characteristics, employment details
economic and financial and insurance.
 
-Computer applications: ACCESS MANAGER, FICHAR, CHRONOS, RENO and RENO
WEB

-Evaluation category National Security Scheme: average.

For all time control tasks, the application used is CHRONOS, which also
stores all the data in a SQL Server type database.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/41

Data life cycle: Within four phases (1 data capture, 2 classification
storage, 3 use treatment, 4 assignment or transfer of data to a third party for its
treatment). It is indicated in the 1 "data capture" that the data to carry out the signing is
You can collect in the following ways:

By reading the fingerprint in the biometric terminal installed in the


building entrances. The footprint is collected, and the date and time of entry and exit.

By entering a code provided to the employee and that he must

enter into the biometric terminal. In this case, the employee's code is collected and the
date and time of entry and exit.

Through the computer of each public employee in the FICHAR application


CHRONOS

Identified risks: There is a box with "Threat/risk" on the left side and on its
right section, "Residual risk", with the result low, medium. Highlights:



“Unauthorized manipulation or modification of information”: under



“Impossibility of attributing to identified users all the actions that are
carried out in an information system”: low.

It ends by indicating that the result obtained is acceptable, "so when implanting
the recommendations made the risk would be low”.

It is indicated as a recommendation:

“Opt for 1:1 biometric verification or authentication systems, using the formula of
combine code plus footprint in all cases. In addition, it is recommended that systems
are based on the reading of the biometric data kept by the worker, for
example on a card.

5-In a separate document, ANNEX V, a document is provided without signature, date or person responsible for
the one indicated:

"Report on the necessity and proportionality of time control in the Ministry of Health",
indicating that the Data Protection labor guide published by the AEPD admits the use
of the fingerprint as a form of identification for the time control of workers,
as long as all the principles of the GDPR are complied with.

Suitability: The measure enables the proposed objective to be achieved.

The time control by means of a fingerprint system manages to control the time of
entry and exit of personnel, eliminating the possibility of identity theft of the
employee.

Necessity: "There is no other more moderate measure to achieve such

purpose with equal efficacy.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/41

The time control of public employees is a lawful treatment by the
Ministry staff services.

When assessing the implementation of one of these solutions, it was decided to introduce the
fingerprint identification since it is a less impersonable form than the others. Whether
uses the fingerprint, it can only be the employee himself who accesses the
signing. It was decided after verifying the misuse that was being given to other systems such as
identification cards or codes.

Therefore, there is no other measure that would make it possible to achieve this objective with the same
efficiency level.

As a consequence of the pandemic, the personnel services have set up a
new application, FICHAR, so that employees can clock in on their computer at the
start or end your working day, being recommended by the personnel services
the use of this application.

Proportionality (the measure offers more benefits or advantages for the interest

general than damages to other goods or values of conflict).

In this case, it is necessary to weigh whether the benefits are greater than the harm that this measure
You have not only the right to Data Protection.

The use of the footprint is a more rational and fair measure, since it ensures the moment
in which the employee has entered and left his workplace. Furthermore, avoiding
possible non-compliance with schedules by an employee is important since it can give
place other colleagues who have to assume their work. Although the use
of the footprint supposes a more invasive treatment, the benefits of this system not only for
the employer but for the public interest outweigh the damages to this right. Besides,
The rest of the alternatives, the use of credentials, of codes, do not prevent the impersonation of the
employee identity.
 
6-The biometric terminal complies with the BioAPI specifications (ISO/IEC 19784 standard); The
Fingerprints are stored in a centralized database on SQL SERVER 11.

-"To collect fingerprints, access control terminals with sensors are used
biometrics of the brand NITGEN-Fingkey Access model SW101”. “These terminals are
connect to a central server through the corporate network. The fingerprint is stored in a
bb.dd. centralized in SQL Server 11 and is assigned for each user to the terminal or
terminals from which you can sign, not being able to sign in any other”.

-“Both the coding and the storage of the fingerprints are carried out by the
ACCESS MANAGER application which is the one that manages all data transactions
between the terminals and the centralized database and follows the BioAPI specifications
(ISO/IEC 19784 standard). The application is the one that is in charge of the encryption whose logic is
completely hidden from both the end user and the potential programmer. ACCESS MANAGER
does not store users' fingerprints. The fingerprint is transformed into a
code from an algorithm, and subsequently removed. Provide screenshot with image
"maintenance of traces" of ACCESS MANAGER in which it states "it no longer exists
no biometric data.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/41

- On the measures adopted to guarantee that it is not possible to reuse the
biometric data for another purpose, indicates that fingerprints are processed exclusively
by the ACCESS MANAGER application, from which they can only be registered or deleted, in
no case copy and much less alter. “The prints are stored in a bb.dd.
centralized in SQL Server 11 with the same security measures as the Service of
Database has for the rest of bb.dd., that is, it is part of the infrastructure
certified (ENS and ISO 27001 Compliance). Fingerprint encryption is performed
internally and, by following the BioAPI standard, technicians consider that it makes it difficult to
fingerprint reuse in other systems than Nitgen”.

7- Regarding the Impact Evaluation, it indicates that it is a treatment that comes from the
previous regulations, the PERSONNEL file that the Department of Health had registered in
the AEPD. It was created by the Order of 05/12/2016, of the Ministry of Finance and
Public Administrations, of creation, modification and deletion of files with data of
personal nature of several Councils of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha.
(DOCM No. 244 of 12/19/2016). “This treatment has not undergone any technological change
nor functional that justifies the realization of this DPIA.”

8-About the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the claim, it is
refer to ANNEX I

9-About the measures taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring, dates
of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness, indicates that in the
data processing for personnel management and time control, information will be included
in the CHRONOS app.

SIXTH: On 08/12/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
admitted for processing the claim presented by the claimant.

SEVENTH: On 04/04/2022, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

"START SANCTIONING PROCEDURE for the DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF THE BOARD
OF COMMUNITIES OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA, with NIF S1911001D, for the alleged
violation of article 35 of the GDPR, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the GDPR.”

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, on Procedure
Common Administrative Office of Public Administrations, (hereinafter, LPACAP) the
sanction that could correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from
The instruction."

EIGHTH: On 04/21/2022, allegations are received, indicating:

1) It reiterates that at the time the system was put into operation, the
legitimacy is found in article 6.2 of the LOPD:

2) Article 35.1 of the GDPR whose violation is alleged provides that the EIPD is before the
treatment and the principle of legality entails the need for normative predetermination
of illegal conduct and its sanctions. The subsumption of conduct in the type
default is not discretionary power of the Administration.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/41

"In the present case, we understand that in the sanctioning procedure initiated, it could be
be violating the principle of typicality, since the registration system of the working day
work, by means of a fingerprint, was launched prior to the application of the
GDPR, that is, under the validity of the repealed Organic Law 15/1999, of 13/12, of
Protection of Personal Data, for which reason point 1 of the article would not apply.
35 of the GDPR to initiate the sanctioning procedure for its violation, since this
would go against the provisions of article 25.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which provides:

"1. No one can be convicted or penalized for actions or omissions that at the time
if they occur, they do not constitute a crime, misdemeanor or administrative infraction, according to the legislation
current at that time."

3) The initiation agreement states that the EIPD applies to existing treatment operations
that are likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical and for which there has been a change in risks, taking into account the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, and the respondent considers that
there is no change in the risks since its implementation, being a very
consolidated, “fully known and used by all Board staff”.

4) Indicates that despite understanding the above, an impact DPIA is going to be carried out with the
participation of the competent entities (regarding the information society and
coordination of electronic administration, framed in the Ministry of Finance and
Public administrations).

NINTH: On 11/8/2022, a test practice period begins, assuming
reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the claimant and his
documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the admission phase to
processing of the claim, and the report of previous investigation actions that form
part of procedure E/07369/2021.

Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the start-up agreement
of the referenced disciplinary procedure, presented by the defendant, and the
accompanying documentation.

The defendant is requested to provide or report:

to)

In their risk assessment they indicate:

-"For time control, one of the forms of data capture is the introduction of a
code provided to the employee and that he must enter in the biometric terminal”.

In this regard, you are requested to report if it exclusively works with this code
this type of access -does not require a fingerprint- and which employees have the option of
use it, from what date and until when.

- It is indicated as a recommendation:

“Opt for 1:1 biometric verification or authentication systems, using the formula
to combine code plus fingerprint in all cases. In addition, it is recommended that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/41

systems are based on the reading of the biometric data kept by the person
worker, for example on a card.”

On the same, reasons why they did not decide to use this modality.

b) If the time control with fingerprint was interrupted during the pandemic, and
What system are you currently using?

c)
If the entity uses the fingerprint control system for time control
from ***DATE.2, to ***DATE.1, dates from which it began to be used
by the claimant, and if its use ceased on 03/13/2020, reason, and if the claimant used
daily fingerprint system. Reasons for discontinuing use in
general fingerprint system for time control on ***DATE.1, or if optional. if so
outside, legal basis used and information provided to employees.

Responds on 12/7/2022, after having sent the resolution proposal on
2/12/2022

It states that "the Resolution of the General Directorate of Public Function, of
*** DATE.3, by which the extraordinary measures are extended in relation to the
time control of the staff of the Administration of the Board of Communities of
Castilla-La Mancha, ordered the extension until /07/2020 of the suspension of the
time control rules established in article 13 of the Order of 09/07/2009 before
cited (provided for by the Resolution of the General Directorate of the Public Function of
03/16/2020 during the validity of the state of alarm), as well as that from
*** DATE.1, the signing would be carried out (compulsorily) through the computer of each
user or user (because the CHRONOS corporate application allows this technique).
Likewise, in the aforementioned report it was mentioned that this resolution was subject to
adequate dissemination to all personnel through its electronic publication on the bulletin board
of the CHRONOS corporate application.”

"Regarding this Provincial Delegation, during the aforementioned period
by the General Directorate of Public Function of suspension of the rules of control ho-
rary and mandatory signing through the computer (until 10-22-2021 as will be seen in the
next paragraph), the biometric terminal located at the entrance to the center was covered
with a sign indicating the prohibition of its use, under the aforementioned instructions
and of the service instruction of the Provincial Secretary specific in matters of Co-
vid19, of 05-12-2020, where the use of the fi-
fingerprint and that the staff must mark their entrances and exits using
your computer through the CHRONOS application.” Declares that the attached
aforementioned specific service instruction on Covid19, but it is not provided.
Currently, under the protection of Instruction 4/2021, of 10/22 of the General Directorate of the
Public Function, on time control of public administration employee personnel
General of the Administration of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha and its
Autonomous Organizations, as of 11/2/2021 the signing for the time control will be carried out
through the biometric reading devices available in each work center
low, without it being able to be done through the computer of each user (except
In the case of personnel authorized to provide services by tele-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/41

job). It is stated that the aforementioned Instruction 4/2021 is attached, but it is not
contributed.

d)
In the report of the Provincial Health Delegation provided in the transfer of
the claim, they indicated when the measure of the use of the fingerprint was implemented to
time control:

“THIRD.- That during the aforementioned operation the circumstance arose that
some public employee refused to provide his fingerprint, a circumstance that
was solved by providing the employee with a code that he must enter in the
biometric terminal. In this case, the terminal collects the employee's code and the
date and time of entry or exit. “

He is asked if during the establishment of this system there was an alternative to
employees to use one or the other means, as justified and to how many
employees reached this modality and because it was not offered to everyone.

He responded that "at the time when the staff section of the Delegation
Provincial Ministry of Health in ***LOCATION.1 recording of
the fingerprint to all personnel, it is indicated to them, albeit verbally, that in case
failure of the biometric fingerprint marking system, they can carry out the marking at
by entering your ID number followed by a password
four digits, so all staff know that there is an alternative to marking
through fingerprint.

Only one employee has refused biometric registration by fingerprint and was
exclusively provided the aforementioned signing alternative, only said employee
public has exclusively enabled the signing by code, and all
public employees can use it as an alternative to doing it through
fingerprint.

and)

They stated on transfer that:

“To collect fingerprints, access control terminals with sensors are used.
biometrics of the brand NITGEN-Fingkey Access model SW101”

Indicate if this statement is correct or not, it would be the correct one that "for reading the
footprints…"

He responds that, "consulted the ICT service", "they have answered:""For the collection of the
fingerprints are used both access control terminals (Fingkey Access model
SW101) and, in some cases, desktop fingerprint collection devices
(Fingkey Hamster), both with Nitgen brand biometric sensors. terminals
access control systems are also used to read fingerprints.”

f) They state in the risk analysis of the time control treatment that when
there are new public employees who are incorporated, various
possibilities, among which are included the reading of the fingerprint, or the introduction of a
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/41

code, or signing from the computer. You are asked if you are given a choice between any of
all three, and if the same thing happens with those who had chosen the fingerprint option or
they were forced to use it.

Indicates that it has already been answered previously and that dialing from the computer does not
it is allowed since Instruction 4/2021.

g) Role played by the Data Protection Delegation in the
establishment of the time control system through the fingerprint, in the changes
of the GDPR, and in the risk assessment document.

He replied that "This time control system was installed in 2016, when it has not yet
there was a Data Protection Officer"

"Regarding the risk assessment, as a consequence of the claim object of this
test practice period, the DPD recommended to the controller that a
EIPD" Provide a copy of an email dated 04/27/2022 in which the unit of
data protection staff of the Board are informed that it is necessary to carry out a
evaluation of the impact of the treatment of time control, associating personnel from the DG
Public Function and representatives of the Ministry of Health

h) Threshold value at which the software indicates that a match has occurred between the
two fingerprints that are compared, and what recommendation for this case does the
maker.

“The security level is established in the configuration of each terminal according to the
authentication method used in it:
• The security level for 1:1 authentication is between 1 and 9, and the default value
is 5.
• The security level for 1:N authentication is between 5 and 9, and the default value
is 8.

If the security level is too high, the authentication failure rate may
increase, and if the security level is too low, the read error rate may
increase."

Yo)

Indicate what happens if you do not recognize the fingerprint that is presented to you, and if you would store

that person's template.

It responds that: "If the fingerprint presented to the control terminal of the
access, the program shows an error message to the user, not producing the signing
correspondent. If the user template is understood as the mathematical translation of the
Image of the fingerprint made by the biometric reader, it is stored in the bb.dd.
centralized when it is collected in the user registration process and copied to
each of the access control terminals in which said user is going to carry out
their signings. The fingerprint readings that are carried out at the time of clocking are used to
compare with those stored in the terminal itself and, in case of
match, record the user's identification, as well as the date and time of access.
Users have the option of identifying themselves with their AccessManager Identifier (which

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/41

we match with your ID) before placing your finger for fingerprint recognition.
In this case, the terminal only compares the fingerprint recently read with the one stored for that
user in the terminal itself”.

j) How do they guarantee that the biometric template extracted with the acquired software is
specified only for that person and is not used by other data controllers
of similar systems.

It responds that: "from the different Ministries, the users of the services of
staff, they do not have access to the templates. They can register fingerprints through the
application and in that process they can 'help' through the application that said collection
be as fine as possible, but in no case can they manipulate the print, much less
copy it. The templates are only accessible at the bb.dd level. And the traces that are read to the
when making the signing, they are not stored, they are only used to compare with the templates.”

k) It is considered that when the fingerprint signing system is used, if you leave, you will
he has to mark the footprint, and if he returns that same day he has to mark it again. indicate
as the employee has to do to justify the various reasons for which he can be
absent from work, providing the instruction or regulation that would have been made known to them.

It answers that “The reasons are implemented in CHRONOS, that is, you have to request in
the tool the situation that proceeds in each case and there is a list of
reasons for absence from job (registration of application, concepts) Also that
supporting documents are attached by CHRONOS.”

l)

Inform if with the change of the RGPD information was provided to the

employees about the new elements of transparency in the processing of their data.

“No, at the time of the entry into force of the GDPR, but as a consequence of the
complaint, the DPD recommended that the information from article 13 be incorporated
corresponding to the treatment in the CHRONOS time control application of the
Department of Health",

m) If they have already carried out the impact assessment stated in their allegations,

a copy of it or the state in which it is found.

The DPD together with the Data Protection Unit recommended to the person in charge the
carrying out an EIPD, not only of the treatment of time control, but of all the
processing related to personnel management; therefore, the scope of the EIPD
includes all those treatments in which there are two controllers, the General Secretariat
of the Ministry of Health and the General Directorate of Public Function.

It is recommended that this be done since, according to what is stipulated in the decrees of
competences, the Secretaries have the competence for the "superior leadership and inspection
of the personnel of the central and provincial services" and the General Directorate of Function
Public for "the elaboration of the regulations and instructions in matters of public function,
legal advice and issuance of reports within the scope of its powers and the
advice on human resources, as well as collaboration, assistance and
coordination of bodies with competencies in personnel matters.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/41

“carrying out the evaluation in this way could be extrapolated to the rest of the Ministries of
the regional Administration with the adjustments that, if necessary, should be made in the event of
processing differently from any of the processes.” Provide meeting message
05/12/2022, indicating that the description of the data life cycle has been carried out, if
Well, the meetings are not held electronically, but by email.

SEVENTH: On 12/2/2022, the resolution proposal is issued with the literal:

"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection be sanctioned with
warning to the DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF THE BOARD OF COMMUNITIES OF
CASTILLA-LA MANCHA, with NIF S1911001D, for a violation of article 35 of the GDPR,
in accordance with article 83.4 a) of the GDPR, and for the purposes of prescription in article
73.t) of the LOPDGDD.”

EIGHTH: On 12/5/2022, the defendant agreed to the notification. With date
12/20/2022, allegations are received in which it indicates:

It reiterates what has already been stated and requests that the responses given to

1)
tests.

2)
Estimates that the control system with the fingerprint is proportional since it is not
has found no system that allows the same efficiency to meet the objective
to control the working hours of the public employee, since this is the only one who
forces the worker to travel to the workplace. Other systems, such as cards,
codes or the signature, do not guarantee that it is the worker himself who signs. They do not have
other systems such as computer transfers are equally effective, since the
worker, as has been verified in different audits carried out, can clock in from
other devices such as the home computer, mobile phone, etc., and therefore does not comply with the
purpose of checking that the worker is actually at his job.

On the other hand, the transfer system through the computer is not extensible to the entire
personnel, since there are public employees who do not have a computer. Also I know
they received many complaints from the staff about the time they lost since they entered
to the building, went to his personal computer, entered the program and signed. For all
For this reason, the computerized signing system is still maintained today
only for staff who telework on the days they do so.

Provide a copy of Instruction 4/2021, of 10/22 of the General Directorate of the
3)
Public Function, on time control of public employee personnel of the Administration.
General of the Administration of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha and its
OOAA, in which stands out:

"First. As of November 2, 2021, the signing for the time control will be carried out
through the biometric reading devices available in each work center, without
that can be done through the computer of each user or user. Second. He
personnel authorized to provide services through teleworking will continue
recording the working time of each day carried out under said modality through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/41

of the Chronos application, in accordance with section 4.3 of Instruction 3/2021, of 21
June, of this General Directorate of Public Function."

NINTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1- At the Provincial Health Office of ***LOCATION.1, (DPS) from ***DATE.2
until 03/13/2020, when the time control system is suspended due to the pandemic
employee has been signed by fingerprint verification. Since 03/13/2020,
the staff could clock in through each user's computer with an application
named CHRONOS. The claimant who provided services at said headquarters stated that
has been clocking in until 03/13/2020 with that system, applicable according to the claim for
official, temporary or labor personnel.

2- The Order of 09/07/2009 of the Ministry of Public Administrations and Justice on
work schedules and vacations of civil servants regulates the duration of the working day
work, the schedule, and the "need to provide electronic or computerized means
suitable for the control of staff hours, complying with current regulations on
Personal data protection."

Order 34/2020, of 03/15, of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations, by
which regulates the provision of services in the General Administration of the Board of
Communities of Castilla-La Mancha in development of the measures adopted as
consequence of the declaration of the state of alarm for the management of the crisis situation
health caused by COVID-19 established as a habitual mode of provision of
services, the remote modality, without prejudice to the fact that at any time they can
Face-to-face modalities may be required when necessary. In developing it, the
DG Public Function adopted extraordinary measures in relation to the time control of the
staff of the Administration of the CLM Communities Board, resolving to “suspend the
time control rules provided for in article 13 of the Order of the Admin Council.
Public of 09/07/2009 on work schedules and vacations of civil servants

The resolution of the General Directorate of Public Function on organizational measures and
prevention of occupational risks for the face-to-face reincorporation of
05/10/2020 stated "Regarding the use of biometric reading devices for
the signing, the measure established on 03/13/2020 that makes it possible to carry out the transfer will continue.
signing through CHRONOS through the computer of each user or user.”

3-As stated by the defendant, in the DPS of ***LOCATION.1, from ***DATE.2,
Until 03/13/2020, the time control system used has been the signing by
fingerprint verification, interrupted by the pandemic and resuming the
11/2/2021.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/41

There is also a teleworking regime (only jobs that can be
teleworking) that is combined with face-to-face sessions-at least two a week
(Instruction 3/2021 of 06/29 of the DGFP) in which the registration of the day is made at
through the CHRONOS app.

However, in the risk analysis provided by the defendant, of 01/16/2021: as soon as
to the signing, indicates that the: "data capture" for the signing, can be collected from the
following forms,

 By reading the fingerprint in the biometric terminal installed in the entrances

triads of buildings. The footprint is collected, and the date and time of entry and exit.

 By entering a code provided to the employee and that he must enter
cir in the biometric terminal. In this case, the employee's code and the date and
check-in and check-out time.” The defendant points out that there is only one employee to whom it applies
this system, which refused to provide the print, although it was verbally informed of this
option to all, circumstance that is not accredited.



Through the computer of each public employee in the FICHAR CHRO application.

NOS.- without specifying the temporary parentheses and the teleworking group:

4-By order of 12/5/2016, the Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations,
exercising its powers over the creation, modification and deletion of files with
personal data of various Councils of the Board, determined the creation of the
PERSONAL file, Official Gazette of CLM of 12/19/2016, "for the management of HR of
the Ministry", in types of personal data it contains, among others: "footprint", in
description -types of personal data it contains-, figure: "Data relating to infractions
Administrative", with the General Secretary of the Ministry of Health as responsible.
The defendant states that with the entry into force of the GDPR, it became a
treatment that is part of the Record of Treatment Activity, such as "management of
Ministry of Health personnel”, with the purpose: personnel file management
official, eventual and labor attached to the Ministry, time control or presence of the
staff, and as a legal basis: Law 4/2011 of 10/03 on public employment in Castilla la
Mancha, Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015 of 10/30, which approves the law of
Basic Statute of the public employee and Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23/10 by the
that the consolidated text of the law of the basic Statute of workers is approved. In
Types of data: "data related to administrative infractions, NIF, DNI, number of
Social Security, name and surname, address, telephone, signature, email, number
of personnel registration, footprint. Other data: personal, academic and
professional employment details economic financial and insurance”

However, the defendant stated that the legal basis is based on articles 6.1.b),
6.1.c), 6.1.e) and 9.2.b), of the GDPR, and given that the measure was implemented before the entry into
force of the RGPD, article 6.2 of the LOPD 15/1999.

5-As an extension of extraordinary measures with the time control of the staff of the
Administration of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla la Mancha, the D. General of the Function
Public resolved on ***DATE.3, that the staff, from ***DATE.1 can use the
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/41

work computer to carry out the clocking alternatively to the control device
of footprint.

6- Fingerprints are stored in a centralized database in SQL Server 11, including
in the certified infrastructure. Control terminals are used to read fingerprints.
access with biometric sensors, brand NITGEN-Fingkey Access model SW101.
“These terminals connect to a central server through the corporate network. The footprint
is stored in a centralized database in SQL Server 11 and allocated for each
user to the terminal or terminals from which they can clock in, not being able to clock in any
other". The ACCESS MANAGER application transforms the fingerprint into a code through
based on an algorithm, and manages all data transactions between the terminals and the
centralized database, also the collection or registration of the fingerprint and encoding,
the fingerprint code is stored in encrypted form, which fingerprint is then eliminated.

7- Through the fingerprint used by the defendant, and that serves the purpose of
time control, at the entrance and exit of the work center, the defendant makes a deduction of
assets, adjusting in its calculation to Law 1/2021 of 02/21 on complementary measures
for the application of the plan of guarantees of social services of the CCAA of Castilla la Man-
cha, BOE 08/13/2012. The defendant performs the time control tasks using a
application called FICHAR CHRONOS, which also stores all the data in a
SQL Server type database, and in which employees clock in on the computer (RAT),
from 03/13/2020, as a consequence of the pandemic, at the beginning or end of your day
employment, "without prejudice to the specificities and specialties of the type of personnel and
public services to be provided by each Ministry and Autonomous Organization”

8- The defendant carried out a risk analysis on 01/16/2021 with the tool
MANAGES (which the AEPD puts on the web), based on a sheet to complete with
answers 17, giving a result of:

-Identified risks: There is a box with "Threat/risk" on the left side and on its
right section, "Residual risk", with the result low, medium. Highlights:

 “Unauthorized manipulation or modification of information”: under

 “Impossibility of attributing to identified users all the actions carried out

carried out in an information system”: low.

It ends by indicating that the result obtained is acceptable, "so when implanting
the recommendations made the risk would be low”.

It is indicated as a recommendation:

“Opt for 1:1 biometric verification or authentication systems, using the formula of
combine code plus footprint in all cases. In addition, it is recommended that systems
are based on the reading of the biometric data kept by the worker, for
example on a card.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/41

9-According to the defendant, the adequate guarantees for the protection of the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties are those related to compliance with the principles of
data protection included in article 5 of the GDPR. In the case of time control only
It is used to verify the presence of the worker in his place of work during the
time set by the Administration. “As indicated in ANNEX 1, in
In the event of non-compliance with the schedule, the proportional part of the payroll may be reduced
time not worked”.

10- In a different document, without date or signature, referring to the suitability, necessity and pro-
proportionality refers to the claim to its use to avoid impersonating the identity of the employee, and
that the footprint was decided "after verifying the misuse that was being given to other systems
such as identification cards or codes” without providing probative evidence.

11-Regarding the Impact Assessment, the defendant indicates that she is not obliged to carry it out,
because it is a treatment that comes from the previous regulations to the RGPD. Indicates that
"This treatment has not undergone any technological or functional change that justifies the
completion of this DPIA.”

12-In evidence, the defendant answered that she was preparing an impact assessment of the
time control.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of 12/5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Regarding the facts that are the subject of the original claim dated 08/19/2020, and its extension
through the writings of 06/04 and 08/2021, referring to deliveries of documents without due
consideration of confidentiality, or reservation, it should be noted that it was already resolved and
pronounced the AEPD on these issues by means of a resolution of inadmissibility to
procedure that was not appealed.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/41

In the extension to the original claim, through the writings of 06/04 and 08/2021, it is
reveal new facts. In some, the evidence provided as the mere
presence of a third party, an employee, before the person delivering the document, without
reveals access to it, or the statement that the document was delivered openly,
by an employee, are not sufficient to understand the illegitimate interference in the
right to data protection, in this case in the development of employment functions
public that the claimant develops. In other cases, there is a delivery of
Work documents. Finally, contact information such as the telephone number, which are considered
in the treatment of personnel management, given the exceptional situation and functions of the
set to develop. These statements alone do not constitute conclusive evidence.
to impute a breach of confidentiality in the course of the usual performance of the
functions.

II

Regarding the claim of 06/08/2021, referring to the use of the fingerprint from the
03/13/2020, biometric data is defined by article 4.14 of the GDPR:

"biometric data": personal data obtained from technical processing
specific, relating to the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a person
that allow or confirm the unique identification of said person, such as images
facial or dactyloscopic data;”

The scope of application of the GDPR extends its protection, as established in its article
1.2, to the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and, in particular, their
right to the protection of personal data, defined in article 4.1 as "all
information about an identified or identifiable natural person (“the data subject”); HE
An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person whose identity can be determined,
directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or
various elements of physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic,
cultural or social of said person.”

Each individual has unique fingerprints that show specific characteristics.
that can be measured to decide if a fingerprint corresponds to a sample
registered. Biometric data present the particularity of being produced by the user himself.
body and definitely characterize it. Therefore, they are unique, permanent over time.
and the person cannot be freed from them, they can never be changed, not even with age,
creating liability issues in case of compromise-loss or intrusion into the
system.

These are data whose use may lead to significant risks for the rights
rights and freedoms, and therefore one of the so-called "special category",
although not defined by the GDPR, in principle their treatment in the article is prohibited
9.1 of the GDPR.

A similar situation of prohibition is contemplated in the Recommendation CM/Complainant
(2015) 5, from the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe to the Member States on the
processing of personal data in the employment context. Specifically, principle 18 of this
Recommendation establishes the following: “18.1. The collection and further processing of
biometric data should only be undertaken when interests are to be protected
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/41

legitimate businessmen, employees or third parties, only if there are no other means less
intrusive materials available and only if accompanied by the appropriate guarantees provided for in the
principle 21. 18.2. The processing of biometric data must be based on methods
scientifically recognized and must be subject to the requirements of strict security and
proportionality”.

A special reference to biometric data is made in opinion 4/2007 on the
concept of personal data adopted on 06/20 by GT 29 (this Group was created by virtue of
of article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It was a body of the EU, of a
consultative and independent, for data protection and the right to privacy. Its func-
tions are described in article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and in article 15 of Directive
tive 2002/58/CE), which indicates: “These data can be defined as biological properties,
physiological characteristics, personality traits or tics, which are, at the same time, attributed
buible to a single person and measurable, even if the models used in practice
to measure them technically imply a certain degree of probability. typical examples of
Biometric data are those provided by fingerprints, retinal models,
facial structure, voices, but also the geometry of the hand, the venous structures and
even a certain deeply ingrained ability or other characteristic of behavior
behavior (such as handwriting, heartbeat, a particular way of walking or speaking,
etc.). A particularity of biometric data is that they can be considered both as
content of information about a certain person (So-and-so has these fingerprints)
useful) as an element to link information to a certain person (this
object has been touched by someone who has these fingerprints and these fingerprints co-
they respond to so-and-so; therefore so-and-so has touched this object). As such, they can serve
of "identifiers". Indeed, since it corresponds to a single person, the biometric data
can be used to identify that person. This dual character also occurs in the case
of DNA data, which provide information about the human body and allow
have the unequivocal identification of one, and only one, person.”

Determines article 9 of the GDPR:
1. The processing of personal data that reveals the ethnic origin or
race, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, or trade union membership,
and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at identifying
unambiguously to a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to sexual life or
sexual orientation of a natural person.”

Section 2 establishes the exceptions that must occur so that it can
be carried out, which in labor matters, with various conditions in its articles, would be:

"2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the circumstances occurs
following:

a) the interested party gave their explicit consent for the processing of said data
personal data for one or more of the specified purposes, except when the Law of the
Union or of the Member States establishes that the prohibition mentioned in paragraph
1 cannot be lifted by the interested party;
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/41

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the exercise of
specific rights of the controller or the interested party in the field of
Labor law and social security and protection, to the extent authorized by the
Union or Member State law or a collective agreement pursuant to
Law of the Member States establishing adequate guarantees of respect for the
fundamental rights and interests of the interested party;”
[…]”
"4. Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including
limitations, regarding the treatment of genetic data, biometric data or data
relating to health."
So, first of all, to enable the processing of biometric data, you must
comply with any of the specific cases of authorization of this type of treatment
conformed by the regime of article 9.2, letters a) to j), being the closest to the scope
employment that of letter 9.2.b) and in addition to the circumstance that raises the
prohibition of treatment, one of the legitimate bases must concur so that the
data processing is lawful, which are defined in article 6.1 of the GDPR, and comply with the
principles that are expressed in article 5 of the GDPR, among which play an important role
the minimization and proportionality and need to process these data.

Article 6.1 of the GDPR states:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for one
or various specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is
party or for the application at his request of pre-contractual measures;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the user.
responsible for the treatment or by a third party, provided that such interests are not
the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail
require the protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out
by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, proclaimed by
the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union and the Commission of 7/12/2000, pres-
Crites that everyone has the right to respect for their private life, and article 8.1, that all
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/41

person has the right to the protection of personal data that concerns him. In-
interpreted jointly, it is inferred that it may constitute a violation of such rights.
chos any data processing, in this case the claimed. This use of data
as employees of the defendant, with the means and ends decided by the same, under
their conditions, supposes an intrusion of their right to private life and to the protection
of data if it is not justified. Article 8.2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights
specifies that personal data can only be processed with the consent
of the interested party or by virtue of another legitimate basis provided by law. In addition, the articles
7 and 8 of the Charter are not absolute, admitting limitations, as long as they are foreseen
by law, respect the essential content of those rights and with observance of the principle
of proportionality, are necessary and respond effectively to objectives of general interest.
recognized by the Union or the need to protect the rights and freedoms
of others (Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, fourth room, judgment
of 10/15/2013, C/291/2012.). These aspects, moreover, are reiterated in relation to the
fundamental rights, in art. 52.1 in fine of the Charter of Fundamental Rights
of the EU.
The analysis of the legitimacy of biometric processing must be based on a
legitimizing, but also if the treatment is necessary, proportional and can be carried out
carried out with a low risk to the rights and freedoms of the interested parties.

In this case, it refers to data processing through the fingerprint registration system
for compliance with the time control record, east control, which is established as
obligation in the field of administration claimed by the Order of 09/07/2009, of the
Ministry of Public Administrations and Justice, on working hours and holidays
of civil servants. This Order, as an administrative provision, complements "the
Agreement between the Administration of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha and the
trade union organizations, which establishes the Plan for the reconciliation of life
family and labor of the public employees of the Administration of the Board of
Communities of Castilla-La Mancha" which provides in its section 5, the adaptation and
Modification of the norms regulating the regime of work schedules of the different
sectors of public employment, in order to incorporate rationalization criteria and
flexibility of the working day that allow the best possible way to reconcile the
daily working day with family life, without diminishing the adequate provision of
public services. The Order establishes for the centers and offices of the Administration of the
Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha and its public bodies: "providing itself with the
electronic or computerized means suitable for the control of the personnel schedule”. No
indicates or imposes the specific instrument or system to be used, and the need is not discussed
to do this type of control, but to do it through the proposed technique, that is, the
use of identification systems based on biometric data and the determination of the
necessity and proportionality thereof.

Regarding the object of the claim itself, the statement of the claimant that it does not
consent was requested by the defendant for the system of taking and using the fingerprint
fingerprint as a record of working hours, it is indicated that consent is only one of the
causes that would enable the processing of these data, although "it is very unlikely that the
Consent constitutes a legal basis for data processing at work, unless
unless the workers can refuse without adverse consequences [...] (opinion 2//017
on data processing at work, of the Article 29 Working Group).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/41

Regarding the manifestation of the defendant that its time control system was adjusted in
Regarding the legitimizing basis, to the provisions of article 6.2 of the LOPD 15/1999;

"2. Consent will not be required when personal data is collected for
the exercise of the functions of public administrations within the scope of their
skills; when they refer to the parties to a contract or pre-contract of a relationship
business, labor or administrative and are necessary for its maintenance or compliance.

It must start from the basis that said LOPD is a development of Directive 95/46, of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 10/24/1995, regarding the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data, which established in its article 7 the principles related to the legitimacy of the
data processing, in a similar wording to article 6 of the GDPR, indicating that:

“Member States shall provide that the processing of personal data may only
take place if:

a) the interested party has unequivocally given his consent, or

b) it is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is a party for the
application of pre-contractual measures adopted at the request of the interested party, or

c) it is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation to which the
responsible for the treatment, or

c) it is necessary to protect the vital interest of the data subject, or

d) it is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission of public interest or inherent to the
exercise of public authority vested in the data controller to a third party to whom
communicate the data, or

e) it is necessary for the satisfaction of the legitimate interest pursued by the person responsible for the
treatment or by the third party or third parties to whom the data is communicated provided that it does not
the interest or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail
require protection pursuant to Article 1(1) of this Directive.”

The competences related to time control are not developed in such a way that
determine the instrumental means to carry them out, influencing a right
of their owners, so any interference in them must be
expressly provided for in a Law. In this case, the determination of the exercise of
competences is an unspecific term that does not imply per se but only the end, not the
media. Likewise, the Law containing said mention should establish the guarantees
for the treatment of the rights of people. For the rest, being precise the control
schedule, maintenance or compliance thereof does not depend on the establishment and use of
the fingerprint, a physical bodily element owned by the sole employee, on which
imposes the obligation of use, imposing your collaboration to be collected and used, as
mandatory, without a legal norm that expressly imposes it.

The day registration system for time control through the fingerprint can
have advantages, but it is not the only one that makes it possible to guarantee it. One would have to question whether it is necessary

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/41

processing is necessary in relation to the purpose pursued and objective proportionality
of the treatment, since the limitation of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data
nals must be strictly necessary. This implies that if the achievement of the goals
planned can be carried out without processing personal data, this route will be preferable and sup-
It will state that it is not necessary to carry out any data processing. Appreciated that the recog-
protection, storage and use of data is necessary, this constitutes per se a limitation of the
data protection right.

This therefore requires, first of all, analyzing and ensuring that data collection is
necessary for the established or intended purpose and if so, that it be proportional.

For this purpose and as an example, already on 10/10/2017, the EDPS-European Protection Supervisor
de Datos, an independent supervisory authority whose main objective is to guarantee
that the institutions and bodies of the European Union respect the right to privacy and
data protection when they process personal data- did not consider it proportionate
the use of the biometric fingerprint system for the control of work personnel and exit from the
personnel in the European Parliament, as it is not considered necessary or proportional in relation to
with the purpose, which could be achieved with less intrusive means
(https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/20-10-
07_edps_biometrics_speech_en.pdf),
https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-work/publications/supervisory-opinions/use-
computerized-system-european_en.

and

 

Regarding the face-to-face control that is carried out with the fingerprint, the people who
who telework can clock in on those days using the computer, and in the period of
pandemic this system was in force, temporarily replacing the fingerprint. Without
However, the use of the footprint has been resumed. However, it does not give a clear explanation of
that a person be allowed to use numerical codes without a fingerprint, because he refused to
give it, at the same time that it explains that this mode exists in case the trace fails. With it, it
reveals that there is an unfounded differentiation of treatment that is not recorded
offered to the rest of the employees, and that it is feasible at least another means of control to the footprint,
without prejudice to the fact that the defendant did not respond to the option that resulted from the risks
which pointed out:

“Opt for 1:1 biometric verification or authentication systems, using the formula of
combine code plus footprint in all cases. In addition, it is recommended that systems
are based on the reading of the biometric data kept by the worker, for
example on a card.

An alternative to use is not a measure designed for when the one foreseen fails, but rather
It must be, initially, a double option. An employee uses a code because registration was refused
and use of the fingerprint, facilitating the measure that was given to the rest of the employees
verbally, a fact that cannot be proven to have been given to the other employees,
given that the duty to document decisions in matters of data processing have
to be documented, and verbally it is a mere manifestation that does not even have to
have occurred, nor that it has been given to all employees, and in any case, it is difficult to
proof.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/41

IV.

In accordance with the GDPR article 5, paragraph 1, letter a), in addition to the obligation that the data
are treated lawfully and fairly, transparency is included as a fundamental aspect of
these principles.
Transparency is intrinsically linked to loyalty and the new principle of responsibility.
proactive quality of the GDPR. Furthermore, from Article 5(2), it also follows that
Data controllers should always be in a position to demonstrate that data controllers
personal data is processed in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject. The princi-
responsibility requires the person responsible to take responsibility for what they do
with personal data and how it complies with the other principles, and must have measures
appropriate days and records to demonstrate compliance.
In accordance with recital 171 of the GDPR, "all treatment already started on the date of application
cation of these regulations must conform to these regulations within two
years from the date of its entry into force" and those responsible for the treatment must
ensure that it complies with its transparency obligations as of the
05/25/2018 (in addition to the rest of the obligations under the GDPR). This implies
that, before 05/25/2018, data controllers should review all
the information provided to the interested parties on the processing of their personal data in order to
ensure they meet transparency requirements. When changes or
additions to such information, data controllers should make it clear to data subjects
terested that these changes have been made to comply with the GDPR. The GT29 rec-
It is recommended that these changes or additions be actively brought to the attention of the interested parties.
data, but, at a minimum, data controllers must put this information
publicly available (eg on your website). However, if the changes or additions are
important or substantial, these changes should be actively brought to the attention of the
interested.
When data controllers act with transparency, this empowers stakeholders
designed to hold data controllers and processors to account and to exercise
control over your personal data.
The transparency requirements contained in the GDPR apply regardless of the
legal basis for the treatment and throughout the entire life cycle of the same. this remains
patent in article 12, which provides for transparency to be applied in the following stages
of the data processing cycle:
 • before the data processing cycle or at the beginning of it, that is, when they are collected
personal data through the data subject or by other means;
 • throughout the entire processing period, that is, when they are communicated to the interested parties.
two his rights; and
• at specific times while treatment is in progress, for example, when
data security breaches occur or in the event of changes
important
In addition to the changes in the obligations of transparency, the principles of loyalty and res-
proactive responsibility affect the rights of data subjects with the application
and entry into force of the GDPR. The new categorization of biometric data into statistical data
treatment and its initial prohibition of treatment, supposes not only that the
communication of the new elements of transparency in the treatment carried out
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/41

since 2016 to the substantial aspects involved with the modification in the privacy policy
vacancy of the fingerprint treatment, special category that as specific risks that
entails its treatment, it must have safeguards differentiated from other categories.
streams of data With such forecast, it cannot be indicated that there is no legal certainty in the
anticipation than the prohibition with considerable anticipation established by the GDPR. Without
that it is prejudged that the fact that a system was initially implemented did not
may imply that it is updated to what is required as mandatory with a change in the regulations,
to which they have had time to adapt.

V

The GDPR makes the application of all the compliance measures that it provides for
responsible and in charge, of the level and type of risk that each treatment implies for the
rights and freedoms of those affected. Article 28 of the LOPDGDD, states as obligatory
tions:

1. Those responsible and in charge, taking into account the elements listed in the
Articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, will determine the technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures that must be applied in order to guarantee and prove that the treatment
is in accordance with the aforementioned regulation, with this organic law, its rules of
development and applicable sectoral legislation. In particular, they will assess whether the realization
of the impact assessment on data protection and the prior consultation referred to in the
Section 3 of Chapter IV of the aforementioned regulation.

Article 32 of the GDPR also indicates as one of the factors to be taken into account, "the
risks of variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical" for the application of appropriate measures to guarantee "a level of security
appropriate to the risk.
The paradigm shift with the previous regulations operated with the RGPD is proof of the fact that
that the requirement that security measures must be adapted to the characteristics
characteristics of the treatments, their risks, and the context and technology in which the treatment is carried out.
state of the art and costs. This would contrast with the LOPD prior to the GDPR, which based
I knew the security measures, basically taking into account the type of data that was processed. The
application of the measures now cannot automatically derive from the fact that some
or other data, but must be the consequence of a specific risk analysis for
each treatment.

Risk management related to data processing operations subject to the
GDPR implies that all decisions related to said treatment, and not only
linked to their safety, must be based on risk management.
There is always an inherent risk to the treatment, due to the very fact of carrying it out, for
Therefore, what the risk management process pursues is to keep them identified, evaluated
and treat them, establishing a response to them, adopting the necessary safeguards.
measures to reduce said risks to a level considered acceptable.
In the context of the AA.PP. , apart from focused risk analysis methodologies
in information security, they have to be expanded to include risks associated with non-compliance
compliance with the provisions of the GDPR, insofar as they are responsible for the treatment of
the data of citizens, or their employees. Before launching new activities
data treatment or modify services already provided that make use of new technologies
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/41

guidelines, they must identify those risks to which the treatment may be exposed. By
For this reason, all treatment, both the existing ones and those that are intended to be initiated, must be obtained
subject to a risk analysis. Risks that are not static, continually evolve,
therefore, once identified, it requires a permanent supervision effort. The attitude co-
The right way is to know the risk, assess its consequences, take steps to minimize it, and
monitor its effectiveness in a changing context. This continuous monitoring scheme is
what is defined as risk management.

The risk must be determined on the basis of an objective evaluation, through which it is determined
terminate if data processing operations pose a high risk. A high risk is
a special risk of harm to the rights and freedoms of the interested parties.
The evaluation, management and minimization of the risk to rights and freedoms is a
obligation of the controller (articles 23.2.g, 24.1, 25, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36
among others of the GDPR) and is part of the regulatory compliance list. the GDPR,
Although it gives some indications, it is not specific when it comes to identifying and establishing how
Perform risk management for each treatment specifically.
The defendant provides a copy of the "security measures that guarantee that the data per-
personnel present the minimum security risks, according to the risk analysis carried out”
attached as ANNEX IV, carried out on 01/16/2021, with the GESTIONA tool
of the AEPD. Regarding this assessment, the following must be specified:

-It is a tool to help with regulatory compliance that aims to support the decision-
sion and whose use generates the basic documentation, in no case exhaustive on the
that an analysis and risk management must be carried out by those responsible for compliance
with the provisions of the GDPR and LOPDGDD. This basic documentation will be a starting point
given that it must be completed following the indications of risk management and evaluation of
impact on personal data processing.

-It is a tool aimed at SMEs, not at Public Administrations, which are subject to
different, with different risk profiles in the treatment with the addition that it can imply
provide treatments to a wide group, with the impossibility in many cases of
oppose, affecting rights and freedoms, such as among others: proportional reduction
salary as service time not worked or not justified through the system
registration of the day with the fingerprint implanted before the entry into force of the
GDPR, with the LOPD, and therefore can produce effects on the rights of employees.
two.

The Guide for an Impact Assessment on the Protection of Personal Data», which was published in
2014 the AEPD, indicated that there are multiple risk analysis methodologies and they can
be adequate for the objective sought, without including specific guidelines in that area.
to. But due to its relevance and adaptation to the specific case of privacy, mention was made
to the publication "Methodology for Privacy Risk Management" of the Commission Nationale de
l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL), to MAGERIT (Methodology of Analysis and Management of
Risks of Information Systems), a tool created by the Higher Council of
Electronic Administration to assist the various public bodies in this area, to
Risk IT (ISACA) or ISO 27005, and also highlighting for these purposes the usefulness of the standards
plus ISO 31000 on risk management principles and guidelines and ISO 31010 on
Risk Management Techniques, detailing various methods that can help
to identify and detect the risks of a new product or service.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/41

-What is provided by the claim of the security measures of the treatment referring to the
risks, does not take into account the fact that the risks to be assessed in relation to safety
are only one of the aspects to be covered, ignoring the management of rights risks.
rights and freedoms in the field of personal data processing, as well as the effectiveness and
effectiveness of the legal and technical guarantees applied.

-You have not evaluated less intrusive options such as the one included:
“Opt for 1:1 biometric verification or authentication systems, using the formula of
combine code plus footprint in all cases. In addition, it is recommended that systems
are based on the reading of the biometric data kept by the worker, for
example on a card.

SAW

It can be deduced from the analysis carried out up to now that quality data is being processed.
personal character of special category, thus considered by the GDPR.

The proactive responsibility system implemented by the GDPR, focused on the management
of the potential risks associated with the treatment, imposes on those responsible for the
treatment that analyze what data they treat, for what purposes and what type of treatment
carry out, relating the potential risks to which they are exposed and from there,
decide what measures to take and apply to ensure compliance based on
of the risks detected and assumed.

The impact assessment on the protection of personal data, EIPD, is the tool that
in the GDPR deals with the guarantee of compliance with this aspect of the treatment.

In the text of the GDPR there is no definition for the term "impact assessment related to
protection of data" or EIPD. Working Group 29, GT 29, created in accordance with
compliance with article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC, independent advisory body of the EU
in terms of data protection and privacy with functions described in article 30 of
Directive 95/46/CE and in article 15 of Directive 2002/58/CE. develop the definition
of EIPD in the WP248 Guidelines on the impact assessment related to the protection of
data and to determine whether the treatment is likely to carry a high risk for the purposes of the
GDPR, adopted on 4/04/2017 and last revised and adopted on 10/4/2017, as:
“…a process designed to describe treatment, assess its need, and provide-
quality and help manage risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
derived from the processing of personal data, evaluating them and determining the measures
to address them." According to this, the EIPD is a "process" and, therefore:

• Reducing the EIPD to a specific and isolated activity in time is incompatible with the con-
process concept that interprets the WP248 Guidelines.

• The EIPD must be documented, but the EIPD is more than the report that reflects its re-
results.

• The EIPD must assess the risks “determining the measures to address them”. The EIPD
obliges the person responsible to act and has a greater dimension than a mere plastic formalism.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/41

in a document on which minimal changes can be made to adapt it to
any treatment.

The EIPD is a process of analysis of a treatment that extends over time, throughout
of the entire life cycle of personal data processing, and that must be reviewed
continues, “at least when there is a change in the risk represented by the operations
purposes of treatment” (art. 35.11 of the GDPR).

The GDPR imposes the obligation to have a Protection Impact Assessment
of Personal Data (EIPD), determining its article 35 of the GDPR:

"1. When it is likely that a type of treatment, particularly if it uses new technologies,
gies, by their nature, scope, context or purposes, entail a high risk for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible for the treatment will carry out, before the treatment
treatment, an assessment of the impact of processing operations on the protection of
personal information. A single assessment may cover a number of processing operations.
similar behaviors involving similarly high risks.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will seek the advice of the protection delegate
data controller, if appointed, when conducting the protection impact assessment
of data.

3. The impact assessment related to data protection referred to in paragraph

c 1 will be required in particular in case of:

a) systematic and exhaustive evaluation of personal aspects of natural persons who are
based on automated processing, such as profiling, and on the basis of which
make decisions that produce legal effects for natural persons or that affect them
have significantly similarly;

b) large-scale processing of the special categories of data referred to in the article
Article 9, paragraph 1, or personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses to
referred to in article 10, or

c) large-scale systematic observation of a publicly accessible area.

4. The control authority will establish and publish a list of the types of operations of
treatment that require an impact assessment related to the protection of personal data
accordance with paragraph 1. The supervisory authority shall communicate these lists to the Committee at
referred to in article 68.

5. The supervisory authority may also establish and publish the list of types of tra-
treatment that do not require data protection impact assessments. The
control authority will communicate these lists to the Committee.

6. Before adopting the lists referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the supervisory authority
The competent authority will apply the coherence mechanism contemplated in article 63 if those lists
These include processing activities that are related to the offer of goods or services.
services to interested parties or with the observation of their behavior in several States
members, or processing activities that may substantially affect the free circulation
relation of personal data in the Union.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/41

7. The evaluation must include at least:

a) a systematic description of the intended processing operations and the purposes
of the treatment, including, where appropriate, the legitimate interest pursued by the person in charge
of the treatment;

b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations

with respect to its purpose;

c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects to whom

referred to in paragraph 1, and

d) the measures planned to deal with the risks, including guarantees, security measures,
and mechanisms that guarantee the protection of personal data, and to demonstrate the con-
accordance with this Regulation, taking into account the rights and legitimate interests
of interested parties and other affected persons.

8. Compliance with the approved codes of conduct referred to in article 40
by the corresponding managers or managers, due consideration will be given to the
assess the repercussions of the processing operations carried out by said controllers
officers or managers, in particular for the purposes of the impact assessment relating to the protection
tion of data.

9. When appropriate, the person in charge will obtain the opinion of the interested parties or their representatives.
sentantes in relation to the planned treatment, without prejudice to the protection of interests
public or commercial or the security of processing operations.

10. When the treatment in accordance with article 6, paragraph 1, letters c) or e), has
have their legal basis in Union law or in the law of the Member State that is
applies to the data controller, such Law regulates the specific processing operation
operation or set of operations in question, and an evaluation of the impor-
pact on data protection as part of a general impact assessment on
In the context of the adoption of such a legal basis, paragraphs 1 to 7 shall not apply
unless the Member States deem it necessary to carry out such an assessment prior to
treatment activities.

11. If necessary, the controller will examine whether the treatment is in accordance with the evaluation
impact assessment regarding data protection, at least when there is a change in the
risk posed by processing operations.”
In development of paragraph 4, the Director of the AEPD, published an indicative LIST not
exhaustive list of types of treatment that require an impact assessment relating to the
data protection, indicating: "At the time of analyzing data processing it will be
necessary to perform a DPIA in the majority of cases in which said treatment meets
with two or more criteria from the list below, unless the treatment is in-
find in the list of treatments that do not require EIPD referred to in article 35.5
of the GDPR.”

The list is based on the criteria established by the “GUIDELINES ON THE
IMPACT ASSESSMENT RELATING TO DATA PROTECTION (EIPD) AND FOR
DETERMINE WHETHER TREATMENT IS “PROBABLY HIGH RISK”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/41

FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE GDPR”, adopted on 04/4/2017 and last revised and adopted on
10/4/2017, WP 248 rev.01 of GT 29 that complements them and should be understood as a
non-exhaustive list:

The list states:

"4. Processing that involves the use of special categories of data to which it refers
article 9.1 of the GDPR, data related to criminal convictions or offenses to which
refers to article 10 of the GDPR or data that allows determining the financial situation or
patrimonial solvency or deduce information about people related to categories
data specials.

5. Processing that involves the use of biometric data for the purpose of identifying
unique way to a physical person.”

9. Data processing of vulnerable subjects…”

In the Guidelines, it is stated:

“In order to offer a more concrete set of processing operations that require
DPIA due to its inherent high risk, taking into account the particular elements
res of article 35, paragraph 1, and of article 35, paragraph 3, letters a) to c), the list that must be
be adopted at national level under Article 35(4) and recitals 71, 75 and
91, and other references in the GDPR to processing operations that "are likely to involve
are at high risk”, the following nine criteria should be considered:

“7. Data related to vulnerable interested parties (recital 75): Treatment of this type
of data represents a yardstick due to the increasing imbalance of power between stakeholders.
and the person responsible for the treatment, which implies that people may be unable to
You cease to authorize or deny the processing of your data, or to exercise your rights. Between the
Vulnerable stakeholders may include children (considered not capable of refusing
consciously and responsibly grant or authorize the processing of your data), employees”.

The defendant resorts to the establishment of the time control system based on biometric data
that are part of the physical identity, that does not change over time, and that
requires on the part of its owner, the employee, an active collaboration to register their
data and access each time you go to the workplace by placing your finger on the terminal
reading, allowing parts of its organs to undergo the necessary operations
for the operation of the system. Likewise, you may suffer repercussions on your rights
when automated decisions are conditioned as a result of the use of the control system that can
affect the employee, for the control of deductions from assets.

The GDPR does not require a DPIA to be carried out for each processing operation that may
it entails risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The realization of
a DPIA is only mandatory when the treatment is “likely to involve a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. It is possible that the activities
ordinary time control procedures probably do not entail a high risk to the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties, but if new technologies are introduced and the person in charge of the
treatment has not previously carried out a protection impact assessment
of data, or if it is necessary given the time elapsed since the initial treatment, it must be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/41

establish this obligation (recital 89 of the GDPR).

In such cases, the controller must carry out, prior to processing, an evaluation of the
impact on data protection in order to assess the particular seriousness and probability
high risk, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing.
ment and the origins of the risk. Such an impact assessment should include, in particular, the
measures, guarantees and mechanisms established to mitigate the risk, guarantee the protection
of personal data and demonstrate compliance with this Regulation”. (consider-
rando 90).

“The impact assessment related to data protection must also be carried out in the
cases in which personal data is processed to make decisions regarding natural persons
concrete physics as a result of a systematic and exhaustive evaluation of personal aspects
belonging to natural persons, based on the profiling of said data or as a result of
of the processing of special categories of personal data, biometric data or social data
regarding convictions and criminal offenses or related security measures.” (recital 91).

The GDPR establishes the obligation to manage the risk that for the rights and freedoms
of people involves these treatments. This risk arises both from the very existence
of the treatment, as well as by the technical and organizational dimensions of the same. The risk
arises from the purposes of the processing and its nature, and also from its scope and the context in which
which is developed, and requires that those responsible for the treatment apply measures
adequate to guarantee and be able to demonstrate compliance with said regulation, taking into account
taken into account, among other things, “the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights
and freedoms of natural persons' (Article 24, paragraph 1). These rights and freedoms
of the interested parties mainly concern the rights of data protection and privacy.
but they can also imply other fundamental rights, such as the
prohibition of discrimination, freedom of movement, etc. .The obligation of those responsible
responsible for the processing of carrying out a DPIA in certain circumstances must understand
be considered in the context of its general obligation to adequately manage the risks deriving from
vads of the processing of personal data.

The complexity of the risk management process must be adjusted, not to the size of the entity,
the availability of resources, the specialty or sector of the same, but to the possible impact
of the treatment activity on the interested parties and the difficulty of the treatment itself.

Biometric processing presents, among others, the following risks, some of which
are contemplated in OPINION 3/2012 ON THE EVOLUTION OF TECHNOLOGIES
BIOMETRIC of GT 29 of 04/27/2012:

-The definition of the size (amount of information) of the biometric template is a question
crucial. On the one hand, the size of the template must be large enough to manage the
security (avoiding overlaps between the different biometric data, or substitutions of
identity), and on the other, it should not be too large in order to avoid the risks of
reconstruction of biometric data.

- Risks involved in the use of biometric data for identification purposes in
large centralized databases, given the potential consequences
harmful to the people affected.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/41

- It goes without saying that any loss of the qualities of integrity, confidentiality and
availability with respect to the databases would clearly be detrimental to any
future application based on the information contained in said databases, and would cause
also irreparable damage to the interested parties. For example, if the fingerprints of a
authorized person are associated with the identity of an unauthorized person, the latter
could access the services available to the owner of the fingerprints, without having to
right to it. The result would be identity theft, which (regardless of your
detection) would make the person's fingerprints unreliable for future applications and,
consequently, it would limit his freedom. The reality of technology is that every day new
forms of social engineering generate new vulnerabilities that appear within the framework of the
treatment where biometric operations are located, so it is necessary to consider
data breach scenarios and determine the impact that a data breach hi e
could cause the rights and freedoms of the interested parties. Also, it is necessary
know the reality of which breaches are already taking place and which could
determine the inadequacy of the biometric technique or of biometrics in general. This
implies a continuous evaluation of the treatment based on the facts that are
producing.

- The transfer of information contained in the database.
-The illusion can be created that fingerprint identification is always correct,
For this reason, an analysis of the errors that may occur in its use must be included,
performance evaluation measures, false acceptance rate- probability that a
biometric system incorrectly identifies an individual or fails to reject an individual
that does not belong to the group, and rate of false rejection or false negative: the
correspondence between a person and his own staff. All this with the effects of power
be constituted as full proof with regard to the accreditation of the presence of a
specific person in the place where he is, with the relationship of the decisions that
legally affect a person, a decision that should be made safeguarding the
rights and freedoms and the legitimate interests of the data subject, at least the right to
obtain human intervention on the part of the controller, to express their point of view and to
challenge the decision.

-Security measures must be adopted for the processing of biometric data
(storage, transmission, feature extraction and comparison, etc.) and about
especially if the person responsible for the treatment transmits this data through the Internet. The
Security measures could include, for example, the encryption of templates and the
protection of encryption keys apart from access control and a protection that
makes it virtually impossible to reconstruct the original data from the
templates.

-Likewise, the WORKING DOCUMENT ON BIOMETRY, adopted on 08/01/2003,
of GT29, believes that biometric systems related to physical characteristics that do not allow
trace (for example the shape of the hand, but not fingerprints) or systems
biometrics relating to physical characteristics that leave a trace but do not depend on the
storage of data held by a person other than the interested party (in other
words, the data is not stored in the access control device or in a database
central data center) create fewer risks for the protection of rights and freedoms
fundamentals of people (You can distinguish the biometric data that is
centralized way of biometric reference data that is stored in a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/41

mobile device and the compliance process is performed on the card and not on the sensor or
when it is part of the mobile device).

-It is generally accepted that the risk of reusing biometric data obtained through
from physical traces left by people inadvertently (for example: footprints
digital) for incompatible purposes is relatively low if the data is not stored
in centralized databases, but in the possession of the person and are inaccessible to
third parties. Centralized storage of biometric data also increases the
risk of using biometric data as a key to interconnect different databases,
which could allow obtaining detailed profiles of a person's habits both at
public as private. In addition, the question of the compatibility of the ends leads us to the
interoperability of different systems that use biometrics. The normalization that
requires interoperability can lead to greater interconnection between databases
data.

- Obvious risks if the technology used does not sufficiently guarantee that the
The template obtained from the biometric data will not match the one used in other
similar systems.

All this, without losing sight of the fact that it is a very intrusive identification system for
the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, among other circumstances
by functioning through artificial intelligence systems that implement algorithms
us to design and read the biometric template, put in relation to the deficiency in the
manufacturing standards for approved systems and certificates of use software, added
to the extension and interoperability of use of these systems.

All these elements contribute to considering the high risk for the rights as probable.
rights and freedoms of natural persons that are mentioned in article 35.1 of the GDPR,
In addition, in this case, two conditions of the list of the AEPD of the article are referred to
35.4 of the GDPR.

Regarding the guarantees to be implemented that must be contained in the EIPD, the Guide "The
data protection in labor relations" of the AEPD contemplates, by way of reference
Ten aspects that can be taken into account.

Regarding the statement of the defendant that the EIPD was not carried out because the system
fingerprint processing processing personal data for the purpose of registering working hours
boral is established on *** DATE.2, under the validity of the LOPD and has not undergone any changes
technological or functional that justifies the realization of this DPIA, it should be added that the Di-
guidelines of GT 29 on the impact assessment related to data protection and for
determine whether the treatment is “probably of high risk” for the purposes of the Regulations.
to (UE) 2016/679 adopted on 4/04/2017, last revised and adopted on
4/10/2017, indicate about the existing treatment operations that "The requirement of
performing a DPIA applies to existing processing operations that are likely to be-
entail a high risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons and for those who
has produced a change in risks, taking into account the nature, scope, con-
text and the purposes of the treatment”

In addition to the precedent legal basis that shows that it has been executed
an insufficient and inadequate basic assessment of risks to the rights and freedoms

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/41

from those affected, it should be added that, in addition, within the context, it is necessary to take into account
note that when it was put into operation, September 2016, it had already published several
months before in the DOUE on 05/4/2016, the GDPR, which had its entry into force arranged on
05/24/2016, applicable from 05/25/2018, therefore the prohibition of the use of bio-data
metric as a general rule was known since before not only its start-up, but
of the publication in December 2016 of the PERSONAL file in which the use was found
of the footprint

Regarding the consideration of biometric data as special data, it must be taken into account
note that in the proposals on the Data Protection reform package, which
led to the approval of the GDPR, the European Commission, only added to the list of data
sensitive, genetic data. It was the European Parliament that added to the data list
sensitive, biometric, when he voted for the GDPR proposal on 03/14/2014, despite the fact that
Some national authorities suggested, due to their specific nature, adding them to the list of
sensitive data. This certifies that there has been a change of context with the approval
of said regulation that especially affects biometric data that passed from data
generic data to the category of special data as a novel aspect in said regulations of
European application, varying not only the technological means from the eventual implementation
of the system for the claimant, but the risks, and their extension in areas of clear affectation
to the exercise of fundamental rights, with the consideration that as such protection
deserves.

Likewise, the implementation of the system by the defendant in its day does not have to mean
Without further ado, it has been legitimized while it has been used, without having had a chance
the supervisory authority to rule on whether it complies with the elements that it has to
complete this type of treatment.

A DPIA should be perceived as an instrument to help in making decisions regarding
treatment, so it is advisable to perform it in the conception and design phases
of the treatment. This would comply with the principles of data protection from the start.
and helps ensure that selected collaterals are guided by risk management and are
implemented during the conception and design phase of the treatment, being integrated into
the same and extending to all stages of its life cycle. data protection
from the design it is not an additional layer or an element that can be added later.
Therefore, an EIPD may imply that changes must be made in the treatment to
introduce modifications, guarantees or measures to reduce risks, it must be carried out beforehand.
and during the design phase, and the risk approach involved in the DPIA is a process,
not a state.
The defendant did not contemplate the diverse and varied elements that have been indicated in
this section in its risk assessment, and has stated that there is no risk or that it is
acceptable, and these elements must form part of the aforementioned impact assessment.

The EIPD is a necessary step for data processing, not being the only one required, it is
a budget to which must be added the rest of the legal requirements for the treatment,
legitimizing basis and respect for the fundamental principles of data processing provided for
to in article 5 of the GDPR. The defendant does not certify having complied with this obligation,
estimating that he may have incurred in the aforementioned infringement of article 35 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/41

VII

The alleged infringement is typified in article 83.4.a) of the GDPR, which indicates:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with paragraph
do 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest amount:

a) The obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39,
42 and 43;”

The LOPDGDD establishes for the purposes of prescription of the infringement, in its article 73.t):

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
are serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

t) The processing of personal data without having carried out the evaluation of the impact of
processing operations in the protection of personal data in cases where
that it is enforceable."

VIII

Article 58.2 of the GDPR provides the following: "Each control authority will have all
two of the following corrective powers indicated below:

"d) order the controller or processor that the processing operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a particular
in a manner and within a specified period;”

f) impose a temporary or permanent limitation of the treatment, including its prohibition;
[…]”

Yo)
impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each particular case.
lar;”

"The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administration, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.”

The defendant continues to use the fingerprint without having carried out an evaluation of
impact on that processing operation which is likely to carry a high risk in
the rights and freedoms of employees. Thus, among other issues, they continue without
identify the risks associated with the treatment of the use of the fingerprint for control
schedule, and therefore without being able to mitigate them, there being other modalities that for said purpose
the claim has been established. It is therefore considered, in order to guarantee the rights and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/41

freedoms of the owners of the data, which concurs with the need and justification to adopt
corrective powers that are determined in the operative part.

Article 90.3 of the LPCAP indicates that "the resolution that puts an end to the procedure will be
executive when there is no room for any ordinary administrative appeal against it, and may
adopt in it the precise precautionary provisions to guarantee its effectiveness in
so much not executive"

Considering that the defendant is a public entity that is part of the CCAA of
Castilla La Mancha, article 83.7 of the GDPR states:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established
in that Member State.

The "Regime applicable to certain categories of managers or managers of the
treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides in its article 77:

[…]”

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit any
of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under
of this article.”

In its section 1 it states

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

[…]”

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration. “

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/41

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION the DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF THE BOARD OF
COMMUNITIES OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA, with NIF S1911001D, with warning for
a violation of article 35 of the GDPR, in accordance with article 83.4 a) of the GDPR, and
for the purposes of prescription of the offense in article 73.t) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: Require in application of articles 90.3 of the LPCAP, and 58. 2.f), of the GDPR,
to the DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF THE COMMUNITY BOARD OF CASTILLA-LA
MANCHA, so that within ten days, "temporarily or permanently limit the
treatment" of the time control system by means of the fingerprint, as long as it does not have
of a valid data protection impact assessment of the processing, which takes into account
account the risks to the rights and freedoms of employees and the measures and
adequate guarantees for its treatment, or even if it were carried out, it would be necessary to carry out the
consultation forecast established in article 36 of the GDPR.

After the time granted, you must inform this AEPD.

Failure to comply with the requirement may lead to the commission of a violation of the
article 83.6 of the GDPR,

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE
COMMUNITY BOARD OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance with
what is established in article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for replacement before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to what
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
provisionally suspend the final resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
their intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact by writing to the Agency
Spanish Protection of Data, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned LPACAP. You will also need to transfer
to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative. If the Agency were not aware of the filing of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/41

contentious-administrative appeal within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

