1/49

Litigation Chamber

Decision on the merits 77/2023 of 16 June 2023

File number: DOS-2022-01379

Subject: Complaint for refusal to follow up on the exercise of the right to erasure and for the
unlawful processing of personal data relating to a sanction
disciplinary

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr. Hielke

Hijmans, Chairman, and Messrs. Yves Poullet and Christophe Boeraeve, members;

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and

to the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection), hereinafter “GDPR”;

Having regard to the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter

“ACL”);

Having regard to the Law of 30 July 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to

processing of personal data (hereinafter “LTD”);

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on 20

December 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

Considering the documents in the file;

Made the following decision regarding:

The complainant:

Ms. X, represented by Me Etienne Wéry, hereinafter “the complainant”

The defendant :

Order of Pharmacists, whose registered office is located at Avenue Henri Jaspar

94, 1060 Saint-Gilles, registered under company number 0218.024.029,

represented by Me Jérémie Doornaert, hereinafter “the defendant”.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 2/49

I. Facts and procedure

1.

On March 24, 2022, the complainant filed a complaint with the Authority for the Protection of

data (hereinafter “ODA”). The complaint relates to the unlawful processing carried out by the defendant,

in particular personal data relating to a disciplinary sanction

pronounced by the defendant (hereinafter "the disputed data") and the defendant's refusal to

follow up on a request to erase this disputed data.

 

I.1. Relevant facts

I.1.1. The parties involved in the case

2.

The plaintiff is a pharmacist-holder of the Z dispensary pharmacy. On December 22, 2016,

she is subject to a disciplinary sanction by the defendant.

3.

The defendant, the Order of Pharmacists, is a professional order created by the law of May 19

1949 and is governed by Royal Decree No. 80 relating to the Order of Pharmacists1 (hereinafter “the Royal Decree

n°80”) and by the Royal Decree of 29 May 1970 regulating the organization and operation of

councils of the Order of Pharmacists (hereinafter “the RD of May 29, 1970”). He enjoys a

civil personality under public law.2

4.

The Order of Pharmacists:

To. is invested with a mission of general interest in the field of public health3;

b. is composed of three bodies which are the Provincial Councils (a Council

provincial in each province)4, Appeals Councils (an Appeals Council

French-speaking and a Dutch-speaking Appeal Board)5 and

the National Council6;

vs. has regulatory, jurisdictional, disciplinary and administrative powers: these

powers are distributed among the aforementioned organs of the Order through the

various missions reserved for them by Royal Decree no. 80;

d. includes "all holders of the legal diploma or the foreign diploma legally

recognized as a pharmacist, domiciled in Belgium, and registered on the roll of the Order of

the province in which their domicile is located. [...]”7;

 

1 Royal Decree No. 80 of November 10, 1967 relating to the Order of Pharmacists, M.B. on November 14, 1967.
2 AR no. 80, art. 1st.
3 AR no. 80, art. 1st.
4 AR no. 80, art. 5, paragraph 1.
5 AR no. 80, art. 12, §1.
6 AR no. 80, art. 1st; art. 12, §1.
7 AR no. 80, art. 2.; "To be able to practice the pharmaceutical art in Belgium, all pharmacists must be registered on the
the Order. […] No one may be entered on more than one of the provincial rolls, which together constitute the Roll of the Order.
[...]” (RD n°80, art. 2, §2).

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 3/49

e. acts through its National Council in legal proceedings "and is represented by the president of the

ci or, in his absence, by his deputy chairman, jointly with the assessor”8.

5.

The organization and missions of the National Council are mainly defined in Articles

14 and 15 of Royal Decree no. 80.

6.

In addition to establishing its internal regulations9 and developing “the general principles and

rules relating to morality, honor, discretion, probity, dignity and devotion

essential to the exercise of the profession, which constitute the code of ethics

pharmaceutical”10, the National Council is also responsible11 for:

“1° to keep an up-to-date list of disciplinary decisions that are no longer

subject to appeal and which have been taken by the provincial councils and by the

appeal advice; to adapt, if necessary, the code of ethics in order to

supplement or clarify the provisions on the basis of this case law;

[…]

3° to take all necessary measures to achieve the object of the Order;

4° to set and collect the contributions necessary for the operation of the various

organs of the Order; […]”.

(emphasis added by the Litigation Chamber)

7.

The organization and missions of the Provincial Councils are mainly defined in

Articles 5 to 11 of Royal Decree no. 80. In each province, there is established "a provincial council of

the College of Pharmacists which has authority and jurisdiction over registered pharmacists,

in accordance with article 2, on the roll of the Order of this province [...]” 12 (this is the Chamber

Litigation that emphasizes). The provincial tables together constitute the table of

the Order13. Each Provincial Council draws up its own rules of procedure submitted to the

National Council which definitively adopts the text.

8.

The Provincial Councils14 are also responsible for:

“1° draw up the picture of the Order

[…]

2° to ensure compliance with the rules of pharmaceutical ethics and the maintenance of

honor, discretion, probity and dignity of the members of the Order. They

 

8 AR no. 80, art. 3.
9 AR no. 80, art. 14, §2.
10 AR no. 80, art. 15, §1.
11 AR no. 80, art. 15, §2.
12 AR no. 80, art. 5, paragraph 1.
13 AR no. 80, art. 2, paragraph 4.; “no one can be registered in more than one of the provincial rolls” (RD n°80, art. 2, paragraph 4).
14 AR no. 80, art. 6.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 4/49

are responsible for this purpose to punish disciplinary15 the faults of the members

entered on their roll, committed in the exercise or on the occasion of the exercise of

profession as well as

serious misconduct committed outside

the activity

professional, when these faults are likely to tarnish the honor or dignity

of the profession;

3° to give members of the Order, on their own initiative or at their request, opinions on

pharmaceutical ethical issues that are not addressed in the code

provided for in Article 15, § 1 or by the case law established pursuant to § 2, 1 of the

same item; the opinions are sent to the National Council for approval and then

communicated to the provincial council which forwards them to interested pharmacists;

4° report to the competent authorities the acts of illegal exercise of art

pharmaceutical of which they are aware;

5° to arbitrate as a last resort, at the joint request of the interested parties,

disputes relating to the fees claimed by the pharmacist from his client, except

jurisdiction clauses

included in

agreements or

commitments made in terms of health and disability insurance;

6° to respond to any request for an opinion from the courts and tribunals relating to

fee disputes. » 16.

(emphasis added by the Litigation Chamber)

9.

Article 16 of Royal Decree no. 80 indicates that the Provincial Council has the power to pronounce

following sanctions: warning, censure, reprimand, suspension of the right

to practice the profession for a maximum period of two years and removal from the roll

of the order.

10. The organization and missions of the Appeals Boards are mainly defined in Articles

12 and 13 of Royal Decree no. 80. In addition to establishing its internal rules submitted to the Board

which finalizes the text, each Appeal Board17 is responsible for

hear “appeals of decisions taken respectively by the provincial councils

using the French language or by those using the Dutch language and who apply

of Article 6, 1° or 2°”18.

 

15 AR no. 80, art. 16: “The sanctions available to the provincial council are: warning, censure, reprimand,
suspension of the right to practice the profession for a term which may not exceed two years and removal from the roll of
the Order. Pharmacists hit by a decision which is no longer subject to appeal, the suspension of the right to practice
the profession, are permanently deprived of the right of eligibility and during the suspension period, of the right to take part
in provincial council elections. » ; Royal Decree no. 80, art. 25, §5: “The Appeals Council cannot apply a sanction while the
provincial council has pronounced none, or aggravate the sanction pronounced by this council, except by a two-thirds majority. ".
16 AR no. 80, art. 6.
17 AR no. 80, art. 12, §1. ; There is the appeal board using the French language and the appeal board using the language
Dutch.
18 AR no. 80, art. 13.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 5/49

 

I.1.2. The context of the case

11. A disciplinary sanction - namely a reprimand - was pronounced against the

complainant in second instance by the French-speaking Appeal Board on December 22, 2016.

This sanction was adopted following the violation of the essential principles of the

profession of pharmacist due to the following commercial practices: advertisements

advertisements, the installation of advertising banners on a website and the use of

Google AdWords services. The complainant lodged an appeal in cassation against this

decision but the Court of Cassation rejected the appeal on January 5, 2018.

12. On September 1, 2017, the complainant, alongside other pharmacists, filed a complaint

with the Belgian Competition Authority (hereinafter “ABC”) to denounce the practices

restrictive of the defendant, both because of its normative policy and the exercise of its

disciplinary mission. In response to these complaints, the CBA issued two rulings

closure, subject to the adoption of undertakings by the defendant in the first

decision and a settlement in the second decision.19 One of the undertakings proposed by

the defendant sought to reform the Code of Pharmaceutical Ethics (hereinafter “the Code”)

in order to remedy restrictive interpretations of competition by the authorities

disciplinary matters relating to advertising and business practices, or to review all five

years the Code taking into account the decision-making practice of the disciplinary councils in a

to avoid restrictive interpretations of competition by them.20

13. As a result of these decisions, the Respondent adopted a new Code in January 2020.21

14. On January 27, 2020, the plaintiff gave the defendant formal notice to erase

in “all registers, files and other ‘criminal records’ of the Order, any

information in connection with the reprimand pronounced on December 22, 2016, and to cease all

processing involving this personal data”.22 According to the complainant, the decision of 22

December 2016 pronounced by the Respondent’s Francophone Appeal Board would be the

result of an anti-competitive practice sanctioned as such by the ABC. This

decision would be unlawful and the processing of the data contained in such a decision

would therefore violate the GDPR.

15. In this formal notice, the complainant cites two damages suffered: her sanction

prevent him from being eligible for election to the Provincial Council, the Appeals Council and the

 

19 Belgian Competition Authority, decision of October 15, 2019, ABC-2019-P/K-34 and decision of October 15, 2019, ABC-
2019-P/K-35. ; Complainant exhibits 8 and 9. ; Exhibits 4 and 5 of the defendant.
20 Belgian Competition Authority, decision of October 15, 2019, ABC-2019-P/K-34 and decision of October 15, 2019, ABC-
2019-P/K-35, paragraph 177 to 182.; Complainant exhibits 8 and 9. ; Exhibits 4 and 5 of the defendant.
21 Paragraphs 84 and 85 of the Respondent's Reply Submissions; New code of ethics, art. 125, available on
https://www.ordredespharmaciens.be/assets/files/PHARMA-Code-double-A4-v.%C3%A9lectronique-avec-liens-r15.pdf
22 Exhibits 1 of the complainant and 9 of the respondent.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 6/49

National Council and this sanction could be taken into account as an aggravating factor

in any future disciplinary decisions.

16. Finally, the complainant alleges several breaches of the provisions of the GDPR: the

defendant would have violated both the principles of data minimization, accuracy and

limitation of storage, because the storage of an illegal disciplinary decision would not be

not relevant or necessary, that the principle of transparency enshrined in Articles 12, 13

and 14.24 Regarding the lack of a retention period, it indicates that the Order would not have

not set a retention period for disciplinary data, as required by Article 5.1.e of the

GDPR. Disciplinary sanctions would therefore never be erased. The Complainant

therefore requested the erasure of the disputed data in accordance with Article 17.1.d of the

GDPR.

17. On April 22, 2020, the Respondent responded to the Complainant's request25. In summary, according to

the defendant, there is no reason to consider that the disciplinary sanction taken against

the complainant is invalidated by the decisions of the CBA and the adoption of the new Code. THE

data would remain adequate, relevant and necessary since they allow

the assessment of recidivism in the context of new disciplinary cases and

applications to become an internship supervisor and are also used to assess the conditions

eligibility for the different councils. The retention of disciplinary sanctions is

always relevant in view of the annual requests from universities that verify the past

ethics of internship supervisor candidates. In addition, the table of pharmacists,

containing the disciplinary sanctions, is only accessible to a limited number of

people. The defendant indicates that he can avail himself of two exceptions provided for in

Article 17, paragraph 3 of the GDPR, namely, on the one hand, a legal obligation of the Order to

process this data (art. 17.3.b GDPR) and, on the other hand, the defense of his rights in court (art.

17.3.e GDPR).

18. In the same letter, the Respondent also stated that he was beginning to reflect on

the principle of limitation of data retention.

 

 

23 For the influence of an existing disciplinary decision on the part of a pharmacist on a future decision, the council of
the complainant recalls that “a decision of December 12, 2017 of the Provincial Council of Liège imposed on Mrs. X a
suspension of the right to practice the profession for a period of three days, justifying this serious sanction by the existence of a
sanction for previous similar behavior (publicity). Admittedly, this suspension never came into force because
Mrs. X appealed against this decision and the procedure before the Appeal Board was suspended following the complaint before
the competition authority, but it is a good illustration of the risk. (point 4 of the appendix to the complaint filed on March 24, 2022). There
Litigation Chamber notes the absence of proof of this damage.
24 The complainant points out in her email of January 27, 2020 that the Order never provided the mandatory information
concerning the processing carried out by the Order or the disciplinary bodies dependent on it, their methods of
implementation and the rights related thereto or that no information relating to the GDPR is made available to
pharmacists on the Order's website in order to inform them of the processing of data concerning them.
25 Exhibits 2 of the plaintiff and 10 of the defendant; Paragraphs 34 of the submissions in response and 35 of the submissions in
respondent's reply.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 7/49

I.2. Procedure

I.2.1. Admissibility of the complaint

19. As indicated in point 1, on March 24, 2022, the complainant lodged a complaint with

ODA.

20. On April 7, 2022, the complaint was declared admissible by the Front Line Service on the basis

of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA and the complaint is transmitted to the Litigation Chamber in

pursuant to Article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

I.2.2. Object of the complaint

21. In her complaint,26 the complainant regrets that, following her request of 27 January 2020, the

defendant did not erase the disputed data. She regrets that the principle of registration

ad vitam aeternam of any sanction in a disciplinary file is still in force

despite promises of reflection announced by the defendant in April 2020 and complains that

the personal disciplinary file of a pharmacist is accessible without restriction of access.

It opposes the reasoning of the Order which justifies the unlimited retention of sanctions in

because of their relevance for assessing recidivism in new cases and

evaluate internship supervisor applications.

22. The complainant points to other breaches of the provisions of the GDPR. The defendant would

violated the fundamental principles enshrined in Article 5, paragraph 1 of the GDPR as well

than Article 10 of the GDPR since, according to the complainant, data relating to the sanction

disciplinary data must be assimilated to judicial data and require measures of

adequate guarantees. Finally, the defendant would also have violated Article 17 of the GDPR by

refusing to erase the disputed data despite his formal notice (points 14 to 16).

23. The Complainant's claims regarding the disputed data are as follows:

-

The erasure from his personal file of the sanction of reprimand pronounced on

December 22, 2016 against him;

-

Prohibiting the defendant from disclosing this information on the occasion of

any new disciplinary proceedings;

-

The injunction to the defendant to modify his data protection declaration

for pharmacists of 28 May 2020 in order to remove any reference to the interest

legitimate as the basis of lawfulness for the processing carried out in the context of

its disciplinary mission;

26 Points 3 to 5 of the appendix to the complaint filed on March 24, 2022.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 8/49

-

The injunction to the defendant to modify his data protection declaration

for pharmacists in order to make it compliant with the principles of the GDPR,

in particular the principle of the retention period and the minimization of

data.

 

I.2.3. Substantive examination by the Litigation Chamber

24. On September 1, 2022, the Litigation Chamber decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and

of article 98 of the LCA, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

25. The same day, the parties concerned are informed by registered mail of the

provisions as set out in Article 95, § 2 and Article 98 of the LCA. They are

also informed, pursuant to Article 99 of the LCA, of the deadlines for transmitting their

conclusions. For findings relating to the subject of the complaint, the deadline for

receipt of the defendant's submissions in response was set for September 30, 2022, that

for the submissions in reply of the complainant on October 21, 2022 and finally that for the

Respondent's submissions of November 4, 2022.

26. In this same letter, the Litigation Division invites the parties to present their

arguments on the following allegations:

- Violation of the principles of purpose limitation, minimization of data,
accuracy and limitation of storage (Article 5.1.b, 5.1.c, 5.1.d and 5.1.e of the

GDPR);

- Violation of the principle of legality (article 5.1.a of the GDPR);

- Violation of Article 10 of the GDPR on the processing of judicial data;

- Violation of Article 17 of the GDPR relating to the request for erasure.

27. On September 1, 2022, the complainant acknowledged receipt of the letter sent on September 1

2022 informing the parties that the Litigation Chamber has decided to proceed with an examination

of the substantive complaint.

28. On September 2, 2022, the Respondent acknowledges receipt of the aforementioned letter, agrees to

receive all case-related communications electronically and manifestly

his intention to make use of the possibility of being heard, in accordance with Article 98 of the

ACL. On the same day, the defendant requests a copy of the file (art. 95, §2, 3° LCA), which

is sent to them on September 8, 2022.

 

I.2.4. The arguments of the parties

29. On September 30, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the

respondent. A summary of his full argument will be detailed in paragraphs 45 and

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 9/49

following.

 

I.2.4.1.

The complainant's position

30. On October 20, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the conclusions in reply of the

complainant. His argument can be summarized as follows.

1. Regarding compliance with the principle of storage limitation (Article 5.1.e of the GDPR)

31. The complainant considers that the unlimited retention of personal data

relating to the disciplinary sanctions adopted by the defendant, that is to say throughout the

career of a pharmacist, is excessive. This excessive nature would also be reinforced

by the fact that the defendant does not distinguish between the degrees of seriousness of the

sanctions adopted: a minor sanction, in this case the sanction of reprimand

pronounced in December 2016, should not be kept for the entire duration of the

career of a pharmacist.

32. The Complainant accuses the Respondent of hiding behind the lack of precision in the

retention period law for not adopting a retention period

adequate and emphasizes that it would be up to the data controller to fill the

deficiency of the law under Article 5.2 and recital 39 of the GDPR).

2. Regarding compliance with the principle of purpose limitation (Articles 5.1.b of the GDPR)

33. The complainant considers that the ad vitam aeternam retention of data, in this case the

sanction of reprimand, would violate the principle of minimization: a piece of data is only relevant

and adequate for the pursuit of a purpose only during the retention period justified by

this same purpose. The complainant admits that the Order can sanction at some point

unethical behavior, due to its legal mission. However, she

does not conceive that this appreciation made at a given moment is permanent and affects

the professional life of the pharmacist "until [his] death" without the possibility of deletion or

reappraisal.

3. Regarding compliance with the principle of data minimization (article 5.1.c of the GDPR)

34. As to the principle of purpose limitation, the complainant links compliance with this principle to the

principle of retention limitation: data stored for too long could not

be processed again for its original purpose.

 

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 10/49

4. Regarding compliance with the principle of accuracy (Article 5.1.e of the GDPR)

35. The Complainant argues that the principle of accuracy of personal data should

be examined with regard to the purpose for which the data is processed and insists on the

distinction to be made between the “veracity” of the data (which, according to her, refers to reliability) and

“the accuracy of the data” (which refers to the link between the data and the purpose of the processing).

So that true data can become inaccurate within the meaning of the GDPR when it is no longer

relevant to the purpose initially pursued. Therefore, keeping a

disciplinary sanction is acceptable to assess the recidivism, but only for a

time.

5. Regarding compliance with the principle of lawfulness (Art. 5.1.a of the GDPR)

36. According to the Complainant, the principle of lawfulness must be applied in combination with the other

principles of Article 5. Therefore, the shortcomings attributed by the complainant on the part of the

defendant would lead to the violation of the principle of legality. To support his point, the

plaintiff invokes the Google Spain judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter

“the CJEU”) which would deduce the unlawful nature of data processing “not only from the

fact that these data are inaccurate but, in particular, also because they are

inadequate, irrelevant or excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing, whether

are not updated or that they are kept for a period exceeding that

necessary, unless their conservation is necessary for historical, statistical or

scientists”.27

37. Next, referring to the Respondent's privacy statement, the

complainant contests the basis of certain processing operations on the basis of the lawfulness of the interest

legitimate within the meaning of Article 6.1.f of the GDPR. The Respondent could not rely on such a basis

of lawfulness because of its mission of public interest. In addition, the criteria for the duration of

retention of data would be too vague. This imprecision would lead to the violation of the

principles of loyalty and transparency.

38. According to the Complainant, the processing carried out by the Respondent should be based on a

legal obligation (article 6.1.c) or on a mission of public interest (article 6.1.e of the GDPR).

6. Regarding compliance with Article 10 of the GDPR

39. For the complainant, the ethical sanctions, because of their characteristics and

their consequences, in particular on the ability to exercise the profession, must be

included in the concept of criminal convictions and offenses within the meaning of Article 10

of the GDPR. Therefore, for the plaintiff, the defendant should have provided guarantees

appropriate for the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

27 CJEU, judgment of 13 May 2014, Google Spain SL and Google Inc, C-131/12, §92.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 11/49

7. Regarding compliance with Article 17 of the GDPR

40. According to the complainant, the retention of personal data would no longer be

necessary with regard to the purposes for which they were collected and the data

would be treated without rules as to their retention period. Therefore, the defendant would have

had to follow up on his request for the deletion of the disputed data. By rejecting his request

to exercise his right to erasure, the defendant would have violated the provisions of Article

17.1 a), d) and e) GDPR.

41. The Complainant contests the justifications put forward by the Respondent for not following up

his right to delete personal data. First, the defendant

invokes a legal obligation, making it necessary to process the disputed data (art.

17.3.b). The defendant considers itself legally bound to process this data on the basis of

several duties:

-

The maintenance of the pharmacists' table as well as

performance of duties

of the College of Pharmacists (articles 8, 12, 14 and 15 of AR no. 80);

-

The transmission of data relating to a disciplinary sanction to the FPS Health

public in

the frame of

the permanent federal database of

health professionals (based on articles 97 and following of the law

coordinate of 10 May 2015 relating to health care professions). This basis

data request rosters and opt-out information

temporary or permanent right to practice health professionals;

-

The transmission of disciplinary sanctions to the other Member States via the

IMI system (based on article 114/1 of the law of 10 May 2015). This basis of

data requires information on the restriction of the exercise of professionals

health.

42. Secondly, the defendant justifies its refusal to delete the personal data

complainant's staff by the need to continue to process the disputed data in the

defense of his rights in court (art. 17.3.e GDPR). The plaintiff who lodged an appeal

in annulment against certain provisions of the Code of Ethics before the Council of State,

the defendant would need to process the disputed data in the context of this

procedure.

43. As to the first justification put forward by the Respondent, the Complainant denies the need

to transmit the data in question to comply with these legal obligations: the

minor penalties would not be data collected by these databases. The article

114/1 of the law of May 10, 2015 would not require the communication of personal data

personnel relating to a minor disciplinary sanction because such data would not enter

not in the information covered by the obligation of this article. The article is aimed at restrictions

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 12/49

or prohibitions from practicing, which a reprimand would not be. About the bank

permanent federal health care professional ethical sanctions

would not be part of the information to be communicated. Only temporary withdrawals or

should be mentioned, which does not justify the transmission of data

contentious.

44. Finally, with regard to the second justification relating to the exercise of the defendant's rights to

defend in court the proceedings still pending between the parties before the Council of State

refers to the Code of Ethics, a code adopted by the National Council, the normative body of the

respondent. According to the complainant, the management of disciplinary sanctions would be the responsibility of the

disciplinary bodies of the defendant and not of its normative body. The complainant submits

that the defendant would not respect the distinction established by law between its organs

of its normative body by invoking this exception to erasure for

retain disciplinary action.

 

I.2.4.2.

The defendant's position

45. On November 4, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the summary conclusions of the

respondent.

To. Regarding compliance with the principle of storage limitation (article 5.1.e of the GDPR)

46. The defendant established the criteria in order to determine the duration of the retention of the data

of a personal nature that he is required to process in a general manner: “The Person in charge of the

Processing retains Personal Data (i) for as long as it is

necessary or relevant for the purposes indicated above, (ii) for the period during

required by law, or (iii) as long as legal litigation or investigations can

take place. »28. These criteria would meet the requirement of Article 13.2.a of the GDPR.

47. With regard to the disputed data, the defendant considers that their retention period is

reasonable since the processing of personal data relating to the sanction

disciplinary action against the complainant would have started when the sanction decision became

effective, after the appeal in cassation, i.e. on February 5, 2018. The disputed data

would thus have been kept for a period of less than five years.

48. Furthermore, more generally, the Respondent indicates that the disciplinary sanctions

are kept until the end of the pharmacists' career, because Royal Decree no. 80 obliges them to do so.

49. The Respondent argues that it has undertaken a reflection on the retention period of the

disciplinary sanctions since 2020.

28 Pages 34 to 35 of the Respondent's summary submissions

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 13/49

b. Regarding compliance with the principle of purpose limitation (Articles 5.1.b of the GDPR)

50. The Respondent considers that the disputed data was collected and processed for

a specific, explicit and legitimate purpose, namely compliance with the legal obligations of the

disciplinary defendant. Data

disputes would have been dealt with

subsequently in a manner compatible with the aforementioned purpose.

vs. Regarding compliance with the principle of data minimization (article 5.1.c of the GDPR)

51. The disputed data processed would be relevant for the purposes of processing

for which they are intended (i.e. the management of the disciplinary file, the evaluation of

eligibility conditions for counsel for the defendant). In addition, access to data

contentious is restricted. This principle is therefore not infringed.

d. Regarding compliance with the principle of accuracy (Article 5.1.e of the GDPR)

52. The Respondent points out that the disputed data, including the sanction, were

recorded, following the appeal in cassation and that the decisions adopted by the ABC and

the adoption of the new Code of Ethics would not have rendered these data inaccurate. THE

respondent points out that, at the time the sanction of reprimand was adopted, the acts of

complainant were deemed objectionable by the Appeals Board. Even assuming that the

Complainant's question is relevant, according to the Respondent, it is not certain that the

Appeals Board would have judged the facts differently in light of the new provisions of the

Code of ethics30. It is therefore not excessive to keep track of the sanction

disciplinary action, in particular to take it into account in the event of recidivism or to assess the

Conditions of eligibility.

53. Finally, the Respondent recalls that the Complainant had demanded in 2020, on the basis of this principle,

that “the data be erased or, at the very least, corrected by indicating that the sanction

allegedly unlawful was pronounced in contravention of competition law”31.

Insofar as the complainant does not demonstrate that the disputed data has become

inaccurate, excessive or irrelevant, the defendant believes that it does not violate the principle

GDPR accuracy.

e. Regarding compliance with the principle of lawfulness (Art. 5.1.a of the GDPR)

54. The Respondent considers that the Complainant's reasoning relating to the Google Spain judgment

could not apply in this case because the defendant would not have violated any principle of the GDPR

in the context of the processing of the disputed data.

 

29 Point 7.2.3 of the complainant's submissions in response; paragraphs 80 to 86; 98 to 101 of the conclusions in reply of the
respondent.
30 Same.
31 Paragraph 86 of Respondent's Reply Submissions.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 14/49

55. The Respondent also clarifies that the legitimate interest, as a basis of lawfulness within the meaning of

Article 6.1.f of the GDPR, is not invoked in the context of the processing of the disputed data.

For these treatments, the defendant invokes a legal obligation.

f. Regarding compliance with Article 10 of the GDPR

56. For its part, the Respondent argues that the purpose of Article 10 of the GDPR is to create a

obligation on the part of the legislator: the appropriate safeguards for the processing of

judicial sanctions must be provided for by the law of the European Union or of the State

member, and not controllers. The defendant announces that in the absence of

clear guarantees imposed by the legislator, it nevertheless took the initiative to define

reasonable retention periods, to ensure that the data relating to the sanctions

disciplinary procedures are only accessible to a limited number of people and to take

technical and organizational measures to ensure confidentiality and integrity

of said data. This is why the defendant points out that there can be no question of a

violation of Article 10 of the GDPR.

g. Regarding compliance with Article 17 of the GDPR

57. The Respondent recalls that the Complainant had initially requested, in her letter of 27

January 2020, the deletion of its disputed data based on the illegality

of the sanction (art. 17.1.d GDPR). To the extent that the defendant contested the illegality of the

sanction, he did not comply with his request. He also disputes the new arguments

provided by the complainant on the grounds that the data processed would always be adequate and

relevant, and their reasonable retention period (less than five years after the adoption

final sanction).

58. Furthermore, the Respondent raises two exceptions to the right to delete data at

personal nature applicable to his situation (see points 41 and 42): the legal obligation to

transmit data to databases containing information on the

health professionals (article 17.3.b of the GDPR) and the legal defense of their rights

(Article 17.3.e of the GDPR).

59. Finally, the defendant assures that the disputed data will be erased anyway,

following the adoption of the new Internal Rules (hereinafter “ROI”) in March 2023,

subject to compliance with the conditions of a new automatic erasure mechanism

minor sanctions handed down more than five years ago32.

 

I.2.5. The hearing of the parties

32 This is what the defendant asserted during the hearing on January 24, 2023.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 15/49

60. On October 20, 2022, the complainant expressed her intention to use the possibility of being

understood, in accordance with Article 98 of the LCA.

61. On November 28, 2022, the parties are informed that the hearing will take place on January 17

2023. On 16 January 2023, the Respondent requested the adjournment of the hearing, which the Chamber

Litigation accepted with the complainant's approval. The parties then admitted the

postponement of the hearing to January 24, 2023.

62. On January 24, 2023, the parties are heard by the Litigation Chamber.

63. On February 20, 2023, the minutes of the hearing are submitted to the parties.

64. On February 24, 2023, the Litigation Chamber received comments relating to the trial

verbal from the defendant that it decides to include in its deliberation. On the other hand,

the Litigation Chamber receives no comments from the complainant.

 

I.2.6. The imposition of an administrative fine

65. On May 17, 2023, the Litigation Division informed the defendant of its intention to

proceed with the imposition of an administrative fine as well as the amount thereof, in order to

give the defendant the opportunity to defend himself before the penalty is effectively

inflicted. She also asks him to provide her with a balance sheet.

66. On June 2, 2023, the Litigation Division received the defendant's reaction concerning

the intention to impose an administrative fine and the amount thereof, as well as the balance sheet

defendant's accountant. The defendant argues that the Litigation Chamber bases itself on

elements contrary to those appearing in the file and does not understand the context

legislation relating to the College of Pharmacists. It also disputes certain criteria applied

by the Litigation Chamber to impose an administrative fine.

67. The Respondent raises in particular the absence of mitigating circumstances on its part.

According to him, the defendant has taken many initiatives and steps since 2020 in order to

bring the processing carried out with the disputed data into compliance. This effort should

be considered as a mitigating circumstance for the imposition of a fine

administration.

68. The Respondent also indicated that the disciplinary sanction pronounced against the

complainant has been deleted. The Litigation Chamber notes, however, that it does not provide the

evidence. These arguments are discussed in paragraphs 199 to 208 of this decision.

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 16/49

II. Motivation

 

II.1. As for the identification of the disputed data and the controller

69. The Litigation Chamber recalls that Article 4, 1) of the GDPR defines personal data

personal as “any information relating to an identified natural person or

identifiable (hereinafter referred to as the “data subject”); is deemed to be a "person

identifiable natural" means a natural person who can be identified, directly or

indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier, such as a name, a number

identification, location data, an online identifier, or to one or more

specific elements specific to his physical, physiological, genetic, psychic identity,

economic, cultural or social; […]”.

70. A processing of personal data means “any operation or any set

operations carried out or not using automated processes and applied to

data or sets of personal data, such as the collection,

the record,

the organization,

structuring,

the conversation,

adaptation or

there

modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission,

dissemination or any other form of making available, reconciliation or interconnection,

limitation, erasure or destruction”.

71. The Litigation Division finds that the sanction imposed on the complainant

and all information related to this sanction contains personal data

personal within the meaning of the GDPR34. Like the parties, the Litigation Chamber emphasizes that

the creation of a disciplinary file for a pharmacist, the registration in this file of a

disciplinary sanction, or the consultation, communication or even storage of

the sanction are, pursuant to Article 4, 2) of the GDPR, as much data processing to

personal character.

72. The Litigation Chamber recalls that Article 4.7) of the GDPR defines the person responsible for the

treatment as "the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or

other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and

means of treatment; when the purposes and means of this processing are determined

by Union law or the law of a Member State, the controller may be

designated or the specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided for by the

 

33 GDPR, Art. 4.2.
34 See in particular CJEU, judgment of 2017, Nowak c. Data Protection Commissioner, §34: ““any information” in the
framework of the definition of “personal data”, set out in Article 2(a) of Directive 95/46, reflects
the objective of the Union to attribute a broad meaning to this notion, which is not restricted to sensitive information or
private, but potentially encompasses all kinds of information, both objective and subjective in the form of opinions or
assessments, provided that they “concern” the person in question. »

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 17/49

Union law or by the law of a Member State”. The concept of responsible

processing is an autonomous concept of European law36, the assessment of which must be made

with regard to the following criteria: the determination of the purposes of the data processing

concerned as well as the determination of the essential means of the latter37. According to the Committee

European Data Protection Authority, there is, in principle, no limitation as to the

type of entity likely to assume the role of data controller38.

73. Based on the aforementioned elements, the Litigation Chamber understands that the Order

pharmacists, as a professional order in the field of health, has been charged

by the Belgian legislator to regulate the pharmaceutical profession. Because of this mission,

the defendant is expected to pursue a mission of regulating access to the profession

pharmaceutical, opinion, advice and prevention, but also disciplinary mission. These

missions, of public interest, were therefore assigned to the defendant, the Order of Pharmacists,

by the legislator. And, even if the activities of the Order and its organs are regulated

by legislative and regulatory measures, the defendant has a certain margin

freedom to determine the means necessary for the pursuit of these purposes. There

Chambre Litigation deduces from this that the Order of Pharmacists is responsible for

processing carried out with the disputed data and other data relating to

disciplinary sanctions.

 

II.2. Regarding compliance with the principle of lawfulness (Article 5.1.a of the GDPR)

74. The principle of lawfulness is one of the key principles of the GDPR and alone conditions the application

other GDPR principles governing the processing of personal data. In

application of Article 5.1.a of the GDPR, any processing of personal data must

including being fair, transparent and lawful. To be lawful, any processing of data to

personal character must in particular invoke a basis of lawfulness in Article 6 of the GDPR. He

it is up to the data controller to determine what is the adequate basis of lawfulness

with regard to the purpose of the processing.

75. For these reasons, the Litigation Division will therefore first examine compliance with this

principle before addressing the other grievances of the complaint.

76. Article 6(1) of the GDPR lists six bases for lawfulness of processing: in addition to

consent (Art. 6.1.a GDPR), the processing of personal data may be

necessary for the performance of a contract (art. 6.1.b of the GDPR), for compliance with a legal obligation

 

35 GDPR, Art. 4.7.
36 See for example
https://www.gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit.be/publications/zonder-gevolg-nr.-63-2022.pdf
37 European Data Protection Board (EDPB), Guidelines 07/2020 concerning the concepts of
controller and processor in the GDPR, version 2.0 of July 7, 2021, points 39 et seq.
38 EDPS, op. cit., p. 11.

the Litigation Chamber of May 2, 2022, available on

Decision 63/2022 of

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 18/49

(Art. 6.1.c of the GDPR), the performance of a task in the public interest or relating to the exercise of

the public authority (Art. 6.1.e of the GDPR), to the legitimate interests pursued by the controller

of the processing or by a third party (Art. 6.1.f of the GDPR), or is necessary to safeguard the

vital interests of the data subject (Art. 6.1.d GDPR).

77. Each processing should be justified by a basis of lawfulness mentioned above.

When the same processing pursues several purposes, each purpose must be based on

a basis of lawfulness.

78. In this case, the defendant mentions that the processing of personal data

subject of the complaint is the maintenance of a register of disciplinary sanctions.39

However, the Litigation Division considers this presentation of the facts by the

respondent. Indeed, it appears from the documents in the file, including the defendant's submissions

and the complainant, that the complaint actually targets several processing operations carried out with the

disputed data (conservation, consultation, transmission of disputed data).

79.

It also appears from the documents in the file that this processing pursues purposes

different, which are as follows:

1. Management of a disciplinary file40;

2. Updating the table of the Order41;

3. Assessing the conditions of eligibility of candidates for election to organs of the

defendant42;

4. The evaluation of applications to become a training supervisor and the transmission of

this assessment to universities43;

5. The transmission of the disputed data to a federal database maintained by

the FPS Public Health44;

6. The transmission of data to a European database on the system

IMI45;

7. Maintaining a directory of Council case law in order to develop the

principles of pharmaceutical ethics 46;

8. Legal defense of the defendant47.

 

39 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 9, §21.
40 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 29, §71, where it is indicated that a disciplinary sanction is entered in the file
of the pharmacist.
41 Respondent's summary submissions, page 14, §35, where it is stated that the table of pharmacists contains in particular
disciplinary sanctions.
42 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 14, §35.
43 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 14, §35.
44 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 49, §119.
45 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 50, §119.
46 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 9, §21.
47 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 50, §120.

80. Processing for these purposes requiring the storage, consultation or

transmission of the disputed data, the Litigation Chamber will examine the

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 19/49

bases of lawfulness for each purpose.

 

II.2.1. Management of disciplinary cases

81. On several occasions, the Respondent invokes the management of “disciplinary cases” as

purpose of processing the disputed data.

82. First and foremost, for the sake of clarity, the Litigation Division wishes to clarify what it intends

in this decision by:

- Management of disciplinary cases: all actions taken by the Councils

Provincial Councils and Appeals Councils necessary to regulate the behavior of

pharmacists with a view to imposing respect for pharmaceutical ethics48

(ranging from the opening of an investigation, to the investigation of the case, the prosecution, the judgment,

the transmission of a file to an appeal body and the assessment of the risk of recidivism

in the event of subsequent proceedings49). The management of disciplinary cases requires keeping

a disciplinary file reflecting the current disciplinary status of a pharmacist and

containing the decisions pronounced against the pharmacist;

- Disciplinary file: the individual file, specific to each pharmacist, in which

finds the disciplinary sanctions or other decisions pronounced against a

pharmacist. This file reflects the disciplinary status of a pharmacist.

83. In the present case, the defendant invokes a legal obligation within the meaning of Article 6.1.c of the

GDPR for the management of disciplinary cases50. To do this, the defendant relies on Article

15 of Royal Decree no. 80, requiring the National Council to keep a directory of case law, the

articles of Royal Decree no. 80 establishing disciplinary jurisdiction on the part of the Councils

provincial courts and Appeals Councils,51 as well as the articles of Royal Decree no. 80 defining the

conditions of eligibility for positions in the organs of the Respondent.52

84. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 1, c) of the GDPR, the processing can be considered as

lawful when it is necessary “for compliance with a legal obligation to which the person responsible for the

treatment is submitted”. As clarified by the Article 29 Working Party, for a

controller can rely on article 6.1.c of the GDPR to process data

personal data, the controller must be obliged to do so by or

under a legislative standard.

 

48 See not. J. ALARDIN, J. CASTIAUX, Disciplinary law in case law, Brussels, Larcier, 2014, p. 50: “The action
disciplinary has, in fact, for the purpose of research if the holder of a profession has violated the rules of ethics or
disciplinary action or has undermined the honor or dignity of his office or profession”.
49 This list is not exhaustive.
50 Respondent's Summary Pleadings, page 43, §103.
51 AR no. 80, art. 6, 2°, article 12, §1, 1°.
52 AR no. 80, art. 8 §1, article 12, §1, 1°, art. 14, §1, 1°, par. 2.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 20/49

85. In accordance with

GDPR article 6.3,

read in conjunction with

section 22

of the Constitution and with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union

European Union, this legislative standard must define the essential characteristics of a

data processing, necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or falling

the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In the

aforementioned provisions, it is emphasized in this respect that the processing in question must be

framed by a sufficiently clear and precise standard whose application must be predictable

for data subjects.53 In accordance with Article 6(3) of the GDPR, this

standard must define the purpose(s) of the processing.

86. However, the Litigation Division finds that the provisions of Royal Decree no. 80 put forward by the

defendant to demonstrate a legal obligation on his part (point 82) do not mention

explicitly the management of disciplinary cases. They allow at most

Provincial Councils and Appeals Councils to adopt disciplinary sanctions and assess

the eligibility of candidates for election. Evaluation of the conditions of eligibility for elections

of the defendant's organs does not pursue the same purpose as the management of the cases

disciplinary. The Litigation Chamber notes that Article 15 of Royal Decree no. 80 mentions in

effect the keeping of a register of disciplinary decisions at the expense of the National Council but

the purpose of which is well defined and does not target the management of disciplinary cases: this

register must be used to “adapt, if necessary, the code of ethics with a view to supplementing or

to specify its provisions on the basis of this case law”.

87. In the legal provisions invoked by the Respondent, there is therefore no question of the

keeping of a disciplinary file or the assessment of recidivism. The defendant cannot therefore

rely on Article 6.1.c of the GDPR to justify the management of disciplinary cases. A

hypothetical legal obligation based on Royal Decree no. 80 could only justify part of the

processing carried out by the defendant (RD no. 80 only mentions the adoption of

sanction and consultation of sanctions in order to determine the eligibility of a candidate for

elections). This legal basis, erroneously invoked by the defendant, could not

allow data subjects to understand the extent of the processing carried out

with personal data relating to disciplinary sanctions. This

ignorance on the part of the defendant is therefore not compatible with the obligation to

transparency. The defendant therefore violated Article 5.1.a of the GDPR by invoking a basis of

erroneous legality.

88. However, the Litigation Chamber does not conclude that there is no legal basis

adequate regarding the processing(s) of data in the context of business management

disciplinary.

 

53 DPA, decision on
bottom 47/2022 of April 4, 2022, p. 22 dot
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/decision-quant-au-fond-n-47-2022.pdf .

106, available

on

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 21/49

89. Indeed, with regard to its missions, it is normal that a professional order such as the Order

of pharmacists can keep a disciplinary file of its members up to date in order to

continue its disciplinary mission.

90. In accordance with Article 6.1.e of the GDPR, processing of personal data

may be necessary for the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of

the official authority vested in the controller by virtue of a provision

legislative54. Unlike the legal obligation provided for in Article 6.1.c of the GDPR, the

processing necessary for the pursuit of the mission of public interest must not be

explicitly described in a legislative provision. Salaries, according to the Chamber

Litigation, are based rather on the public interest mission conferred on the head of the

processing.55 The legal basis must, at least, define the tasks carried out in the public interest or

of the exercise of official authority which justify the need for the processing of data to

personal character. The purpose of the processing must also be determined in this

legal basis56.

91. The notion of “processing necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest” has a

broad in scope since it covers not only the processing necessary for the execution of the

mission of public interest in the strict sense, but also the processing necessary to

the performance of tasks directly related to this mission of public interest, including the

processing necessary for the management and operation of the bodies responsible for

this mission of public interest.

92. The Article 29 Working Party rightly noted that this legal basis is relevant

for: “a professional association, such as a bar association or a professional association

physicians, vested with the required public authority, may initiate disciplinary proceedings

against some of its members.

93. In this case, the management of disciplinary cases involves the processing necessary to

the exercise of the quasi-jurisdictional functions of the Provincial Councils and the Councils

appeal of the Order. These disciplinary functions are, in accordance with Article 6.3 of the GDPR,

exclusively attributed by Royal Decree no. 80 to the Provincial and Appeals Councils of the Order.

The assessment of the risks of recidivism in the assessment of the sanction to be adopted is

also necessary to pursue this mission.

94. In view of the foregoing, the Litigation Chamber concludes that the processing of

disputed data consisting of the management of disciplinary cases by the Councils

Provincial Councils and Appeals Councils are justified on the basis of Article 6, paragraph 1, e) of the

 

54 GDPR, Art. 6.3.
55 C. DE TERWANGNE, General Data Protection Regulation, p. 136; W. KOTSCHY, The EU General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR), p. 336.
56 GDPR, recital 45.
57 Article 29 Working Party, op. cit. p. 23.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 22/49

GDPR, insofar as said processing is carried out by the competent bodies

who is responsible for the performance of disciplinary jurisdictional functions.

 

II.2.2.

 The establishment and management of the roll of the Order

95. The Respondent argues that the disciplinary status must appear on the roll of the Order. For

To do this, the defendant must read the pharmacists' disciplinary file.

However, Royal Decree 80 assigns the mission of establishing a list of pharmacists to the Councils

provincial58 and the RD of 4 July 1970 imposes on the Provincial Councils the procedure to be followed

for registration on the roll.59 The set of provincial rolls constitutes the roll of

the Order.

96. The Respondent did not explain all the purposes pursued by keeping the scoreboard

the Order. It appears from the aforementioned provisions that registration in the provincial rolls allows

the Provincial Councils to control access to the profession by requiring proof of

competence on the part of pharmacists and also conditions access to the profession. Of

more, the table of the Order, which is the sum of the provincial tables, has a function

administrative, by listing all the pharmacists practicing or having the right to practice

in Belgium. This list should contain the identification data of the pharmacists as well as

than their disciplinary status.

97. The Litigation Chamber judges that the provisions mentioned in point 96

contain the essential elements of the processing.60 The Litigation Chamber notes

however, the personal data accessible on the list does not appear

in these provisions. However, the provisions mentioned are satisfactory for

allow the defendant to rely on Article 6.1.c of the GDPR in order to proceed with

the establishment and management of the roll of the Order.

 

II.2.3. Assessing the eligibility of candidates for election to the organs of the

respondent

98. As mentioned previously, RD 80 requires the defendant's organs to take

into consideration the sanctions pronounced against the candidates in their elections

respective. Thus, for the defendant's bodies, the pharmacist who has

incurred a sanction other than a warning.61

 

58 AR no. 80, art. 6, 2°.
59 AR of July 4, 1970, articles 21 to 26.
60 Although not explicit, it includes the purpose of such processing, the data controller, as well as the bodies
competent, the recipients of the personal data, the categories of personal character necessary for
proceed with registration.
61 AR n°80, art.8 §1, art. 12, §1, 1°, art. 14, §1, 1°, par. 2.

99. This purpose therefore involves consulting the disciplinary status of the candidate pharmacist.

100. Given that the purposes and means of this processing are sufficiently delimited,

the Litigation Division finds that this processing is justified by a legal obligation in the

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 23/49

meaning of article 6.1.c of the GDPR.

 

II.2.4. The evaluation of applications to become an internship supervisor and the transmission

of this assessment to universities

101. The Respondent also mentioned consulting the disciplinary status of the

pharmacists in order to provide advice to the universities that have received their application for a

internship supervisor position. Even if this advice only takes the form of a yes or a no,62 the

consultation and drafting of this notice are processing of personal data

personnel requiring a basis of lawfulness of Article 6 of the GDPR. The purpose pursued -

indicate to universities whether potential future internship supervisors have a suitable profile

to train pharmacy students - is different from that of business management

disciplinary.

102. However, the Respondent does not put forward any basis of lawfulness relating to this purpose. It doesn't prove no

more how this treatment would be compatible with the initial treatment, the management of the cases

disciplinary (item 142). The Litigation Division therefore finds that the defendant violated

Article 5.1.a of the GDPR by not indicating an adequate basis of lawfulness for these

data processing.

 

II.2.5. The transmission of data to the federal database CoBRAH and to the database

European data

103. The defendant indicated that he had to transmit to the FPS Public Health certain data

relating to registration on the roll and the temporary or permanent withdrawal of the right to exercise

profession of pharmacist via the federal database CoBRAH63.

104. The defendant must transmit information relating to the restrictions or prohibitions

to practice the profession of pharmacist to the competent authorities who in turn inform

the authorities of other Member States via the Internal Market Information System

(IMI)64.

62 Minutes of hearing, p. 13.
63 Coordinated law of 10 May 2015, art. 99.7°.
64 Coordinated law of 10 May 2015, art. 114/1.

 

105. Given that these processing operations are sufficiently delimited by law, the Chamber

Litigation accepts the basis of lawfulness put forward by the defendant, that is to say an obligation

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 24/49

legal under article 6.1.c of the GDPR.

 

II.2.6. Maintaining a directory of case law

106. The Respondent wrongly relied on Article 15 of Royal Decree no. 80 to justify, due to a

legal obligation within the meaning of Article 6.1.c of the GDPR, the management of disciplinary cases

Provincial Councils and Appeals Councils (points 81 to 95).

107. The Litigation Chamber notes, however, that the defendant can rely on this

provision of Royal Decree no. 80, but only for the processing of disputed data

pursuing the purpose imposed by Article 15, and at the expense of the National Council. Indeed, this

article requires the National Council to keep an up-to-date directory of disciplinary decisions

pronounced by the National Councils and the Appeals Councils. The only purpose indicated by

the legislator for such a repertoire is to develop the principles of ethics

pharmaceutical industry and to adapt the Code of Ethics.

108. Therefore, the keeping of such a repertoire of case law by the National Council in order to develop

the code of ethics is based on a legal obligation within the meaning of article 6.1.c of the GDPR, namely

article 15 of RD n°80.

 

II.2.7. Recognition, exercise or defense of legal rights

The defendant further invokes the legitimate interest as a basis of lawfulness within the meaning of Article

6.1.f GDPR to process the complainant's disputed data. 65

II.2.7.3.

Position of parties

109. The defendant explains that the complainant has a broader dispute with the Order,

in particular the complaint lodged with the ABC (point 12)66 and that an action for annulment

before the Council of State was introduced by the complainant on March 2, 2020. In this

executive, he had to refer to the decision rendered on December 22, 2016 by the Appeals Board

and the procedure before the Council of State is still pending. For this last reason, the

respondent emphasizes that it will continue to process the disputed data in the proceedings

still in progress, in particular before the Council of State, but only within this framework67.

 

65 Point 10.2.2 of the complainant's reply submissions; paragraphs 35, 120 and 121 to the rebuttal submissions of the
respondent.
66 Paragraphs 120 of the Respondent's Reply Submissions as well as paragraphs 25 and following with respect to
the complaint to the CBA.
67 Paragraph 120 of Respondent's Reply Submissions.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 25/49

110. The complainant explained that the dispute between her and the defendant before the Council of State

on the new Code of Ethics: this is a dispute relating to the normative function of the

defendant and not to his disciplinary jurisdictional functions. Moreover, "the law organizes

carefully the independence of the provincial council and the appeals council in relation to

order as drafter of the Code of Ethics” 68. The complainant adds that the

defendant would invoke the need for indefinite storage “(until the death of the

pharmacist concerned) ethical sanctions in order to ensure the defense of his rights

in court” 69.

 

II.2.7.4.

Position of the Litigation Chamber

111. The Litigation Chamber notes that, according to Article 6.1.f of the GDPR, the processing of

personal data must be “necessary for the fulfillment of the legitimate interest”

pursued by the data controller (for completeness: or by a third party).

112. Moreover, recourse to legitimate interest is expressly subject to a criterion

additional balancing act, which aims to protect the interest and the rights and freedoms

fundamentals of the people concerned. In other words, the legitimate interest pursued

by the controller must be weighed against the interests or rights and freedoms

fundamental rights of the data subject, the objective of the balancing being to prevent

a disproportionate impact on their rights and freedoms.

113. The interest pursued by the data controller, even if it is legitimate and necessary, cannot

therefore validly be invoked only if the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons

concerned do not prevail over this interest. The Court of Justice of the European Union70 has

clarified that these three conditions – either the pursuit of a legitimate interest by the controller

of processing (or purpose test) (a), the necessity of the processing for the achievement of the interest

lawsuit pursued (necessity test) (b) and the condition that the rights and freedoms

of the persons concerned do not prevail over the interest pursued (test of

weighting) (c), are cumulative.

114. In this regard, legal defense is a fundamental right enshrined in article 48 of the

Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union. In general, the legal defense can

actually be considered a lawful legitimate interest in the context of

the application of article 6.1.f. of the GDPR. In accordance with Opinion 06/2014 of the Group of

Article 29 on the notion of legitimate interest, this interest must be real and present, or not

 

68 Point 10.2.2 of the complainant's reply submissions; paragraphs 35, 120 and 121 to the rebuttal submissions of the
respondent.
69 In paragraph 120 of its Reply Submissions, the Respondent adds that it has never claimed that the retention
of the data was necessary until the death of the pharmacist concerned in order to ensure the defense of his rights in court.
70 CJEU, judgment of December 11, 2019, TK c. Asociaţia de Proprietari block M5A-ScaraA, C-708/18, § 44.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 26/49

hypothetical71. The Litigation Chamber finds that the interest of the defendant is real and

present, because of the proceedings pending before the Council of State. The first requirement

is therefore fulfilled.

115. With regard to the second condition, the defendant must show that the treatment is

necessary for the exercise of this defense in court. This need to deal with

disputed data implies that the legal defense of the defendant before the Council of State

be obstructed without the processing of the disputed data. Moreover, one of the corollaries of

this criterion of necessity is compliance with the principle of data minimization (article 5.1.c

GDPR).

116. In the present case, the Litigation Division notes that the procedure initiated by the

plaintiff before the Council of State seeks to annul certain provisions of the new Code

of ethics72. The defendant indicates that the processing of the data was necessary because

he had to mention the decision of the Appeals Board of December 22, 2016 in his conclusions.

Legitimate interest, as a basis for lawfulness, would only allow the National Council, as

legal representative of the defendant, to process the disputed data in the context of

this procedure only.

117. With regard to the third condition, the fact remains that this data processing must

also fit in a relevant and proportionate way with the purpose precisely

identification of this legitimate interest, i.e. the legal defense of the dispute before the Conseil

of state. It is therefore still necessary to ensure that the requirements of the weighting test are

encountered. The balancing test requires balancing the interests of the

controller on the one hand and the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person

concerned on the other hand.

118. The Litigation Division is of the opinion that legal defense is a compelling interest

that may justify an infringement of the right to the protection of the privacy of individuals

concerned73. Such an infringement of the plaintiff's right would be justified. Furthermore, the

defendant is not a public authority and can therefore invoke a legitimate interest in the

framework of the defense of his rights in court.

119. The defendant may therefore invoke the defense of his rights in court as an interest

legitimate within the meaning of Article 6.1.f of the GDPR to justify the processing of the data

disputed by the National Council.

 

 

71 “Article 29” Working Party, Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller
data within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, p. 27.
72 Motion to quash, Exhibit 8 of the Respondent's Inventory.
73 Group 29, “Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller
data within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC”, p. 27.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 27/49

II.2.8. Conclusions on compliance with the principle of lawfulness

120. As noted above, the Respondent relied on a basis of legality

inadequate to justify processing relating to the management of disciplinary cases

(points 81 to 95). Nor did the defendant invoke a basis of lawfulness to justify the

processing relating to opinions given to universities (points 101 and 102). Based on these

findings, the Litigation Chamber judges that the defendant violated the principle of legality

and transparency of Article 5.1.a of the GDPR.

 
 

II.3. With regard to Article 5, paragraph 1, e) of the GDPR (principle of limitation of the storage

Datas)

121. The principle of limitation of data retention implies that the duration of

retention of personal data must be defined and limited. She must not

exceed what is strictly necessary with regard to the purposes for which the

data is processed. Applying this principle also reduces the risk of

the use of such data to the detriment of the data subject.

122. The GDPR does not dictate the retention period of personal data but

requires the data controller to adopt at least storage criteria

with regard to the purposes established for each treatment75. In principle, the duration of

conservation determined by the data controller must be communicated to the

data subject at the time the personal data is obtained.

123. The College has established the following criteria to determine the retention period of

personal data that it is required to process in general: “The

Controller retains Personal Data (i) for as long as

that it is necessary or relevant for the purposes indicated above, (ii) for the period

as required by law, or (iii) as long as legal litigation or investigations

can take place. »77.

124. Given its preponderant role in achieving the other purposes pursued by the

defendant, the Litigation Chamber will first consider the retention limit

data related to a disciplinary file.

 

 

 

74 GDPR recital 39
75 GDPR, Art. 5.2.
76 GDPR, Art. 13.2, a).
77 Pages 34 to 35 of the Respondent's summary submissions

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 28/49

A. Duration of retention of disciplinary sanctions within the framework of management

disciplinary cases

125. Concretely, the Respondent decided to keep the data related to sanctions

disciplinary until the death of pharmacists registered on the Order's roll or, at the

less, until the end of their career. In order to justify this retention period, the Order refers

to RD n°80 which does not indicate when a sanction becomes obsolete to determine the

Conditions of eligibility. Insofar as Royal Decree no. 80 does not explicitly provide for

provisions concerning the retention period of data in disciplinary matters, the

defendant therefore concluded that the provisions of the Royal Decree required de facto a

long-term treatment

indefinite,

justifying the retention of data

disciplinary measures until the death or the end of the pharmacists' career.

126. However, as examined previously, these provisions are not relevant to establish

the treatments involved in the management of disciplinary cases. This argument is therefore not

not relevant to justify this retention period.

127. The management of disciplinary cases, including the keeping of a disciplinary file, is in

reality based on a mission of public interest (paragraphs 89 to 94). But it would be wrong

to interpret the silence of a legislative text as allowing data processing to be

unlimited in time. A royal decree imposing a mission of public interest on the

meaning of Article 6.1.e of the GDPR must be interpreted in accordance with the GDPR. So the

controller cannot shirk its obligations, including that of

determine the period necessary for the retention of personal data. He

it was therefore up to the defendant to adopt a retention period adequate for the management of the

disciplinary cases.

128. The Litigation Division draws a distinction between two types of sanctions:

minor sanctions (the warning and the reprimand) and major sanctions (the

penalties greater than a reprimand). Such a distinction is also adopted by the

defendant.79

129. In the present case, according to the Litigation Division, the retention of a disciplinary sanction

in a file until retirement, regardless of its severity, is excessive and not

GDPR compliant. Moreover, the defendant fails to explain the relevance of the

conservation of minor sanction until the death or the end of the career of a pharmacist in order,

for example, to take recidivism into account in a disciplinary case.

130. With regard to the retention period applied to the complainant's sanction, the

defendant also argues that the retention period of the data in question must be

78 Page 48 of Respondent's Summary Pleadings
79 See the 2021 Annual Report of the National Council of the Order of Pharmacists, p. 27.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 29/49

determined from February 5, 2018, when the decision relating to the sanction with regard to the

complainant has become effective, i.e. thirty days from the notification of the judgment of the

Court of Cassation (point 15). A cassation appeal in disciplinary matters has

effectively a suspensive effect on the contested decision80. The treatments mentioned

previously and involving the complainant's disciplinary status (taking into consideration

of the sanction to assess the conditions of eligibility for elections as well as for a post of

supervisor, to assess the risk of recurrence, etc.) would not have taken place until after the 5

February 2018. The Complainant did not contest this point. The Litigation Chamber is therefore

of the opinion that the start of the retention period of the disciplinary sanction imposed on

against the plaintiff is scheduled to begin on February 5, 2018.

131. However, this last point does not change the finding that the Respondent was applying a

policy of retention of data related to excessive disciplinary sanctions and

intended to apply it to the complainant's disputed data.

132. In conclusion, the Respondent failed to adopt a reasonable retention period for the

retention of personal data relating to disciplinary sanctions, and

this without taking into consideration the severity of the sanctions adopted. Bedroom

Litigation concludes that such a data retention policy

personnel violates the principles of retention limitation (Articles 5.1.e of the GDPR).

133. Furthermore, when this decision was adopted, the disciplinary sanction imposed on

against the plaintiff will have been adopted more than five years after the judgment of the Court of

cassation has become res judicata. The Litigation Chamber considers that a

retention period exceeding five years for a minor disciplinary sanction is

excessive.

134. The defendant must then adopt a retention limitation policy specific to the

needs encountered in handling disciplinary cases. The defendant must adopt

fixed retention periods depending on the types of decisions contained in a

disciplinary record.

B. Duration of retention of disputed data in the context of processing

involving disciplinary status other than the management of disciplinary cases

135. Since the roll of the Order must reflect the disciplinary status of a pharmacist on

basis of his disciplinary file, the mention of a disciplinary sanction on the table of

the Order must remain published on the list of the Order as long as the

disciplinary sanction in the individual disciplinary file.

 

80 Judicial Code, art. 1121/5, 3°.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 30/49

C. Duration of retention of a disciplinary sanction in the directory of

jurisprudence

136. The Litigation Chamber understands from article 15 of Royal Decree no. 80 that the National Council

mission is to establish a directory of disciplinary decisions in order to develop its

jurisprudence and not to manage disciplinary files (points 106 and 108).

137. To comply with this legal obligation, the Litigation Division considers that a

longer storage of the disciplinary sanction in this directory will be necessary, but

solely for the purpose of fulfilling this specific purpose.

 

II.4. As to Article 5(1)(b) (purpose limitation principles)

138. The purpose of the processing is based on the fact that each processing of personal data

personnel must have a specific, explicit and legitimate purpose. This purpose of

processing must be respected, make it possible to determine the relevance of the data

collected and must set the retention period for the data. In other words, once

the data is collected and processed for a purpose, it is, in principle, no longer possible

to use them for processing for a different purpose, subject to

the application of article 6.4 of the GDPR.

139. The Litigation Chamber recalls that the purpose limitation principle implies that the

controller must, before the start of any processing, determine the purpose of the

processing, i.e. the objective it intends to achieve by means of the use of the data

personal. The purpose must be determined, explicit and legitimate, so that a person

concerned must be able to understand what data will be processed and for what purposes.

140. Further processing of personal data for purposes other than the one(s)

for which this data was initially collected is only permitted if this

further processing is compatible with the purposes for which the personal data

personal were initially collected, taking into account the link between the purposes for

which they were collected and the purposes of the further processing envisaged, the framework

in which the personal data was collected, of the consequences

possibilities of the further processing envisaged for the data subject and the existence of

appropriate safeguards. A compatible purpose is, for example, a purpose that the person

concerned may provide or which may be considered compatible by virtue of a

legal provision (see article 6.4. of the GDPR). Further processing is however excluded.

when the initial processing is based in particular on national law or European law.

141. The Litigation Chamber judges that the purposes presented by the defendant are not

sufficiently determined, i.e. specific, or explicit. Indeed, the defendant

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 31/49

justifies the processing of the disputed data under an obligation to manage the "business

disciplinary matters", or to keep a directory of case law. This concept is very vague.

and would not make it possible to understand the purposes listed in point 79. In addition, the use

of a vague notion to define the purposes of such processing also means that these

purposes are not sufficiently explicit.

142. Respondent also mentions subsequent processing (in particular the assessment of

conditions of eligibility for a position of internship supervisor) compatible with the initial purpose

collection of disputed data (management of disciplinary cases).81 The defendant

does not, however, prove compliance with the conditions for applying further processing

compatible with the original purpose. Furthermore, the Litigation Chamber notes that the

initial processing of disputed data is based on a mission imposed by law

Belgian (see section II.2.1), which excludes further processing with the same data.

143. Consequently, the Litigation Division finds a violation of the principle of limitation of

purposes (Article 5.1.b of the GDPR) because the defendant did not sufficiently specify the purposes

pursued with the disputed data, rendering the said purposes insufficiently

determined and explicit.

 

II.5. As to Article 5(1)(c) (data minimization principle)

144. According to the minimization principle, the data undergoing processing must be

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

which they are processed. The relevance requirement is met if the data

present a necessary and sufficient link with the purposes pursued. Furthermore, the

principle of data minimization leads to personal data

are processed only where that purpose can reasonably be achieved by

to the processing in question 82.

145. In order to honor the principle of minimization, data controllers may have

use of measures such as anonymization, pseudonymization of data

(making the person concerned unidentifiable)83 or the designation of the persons

authorized to access the data.

 

 

81 Respondent's Summary Submissions, p. 30, § 73.
82 GDPR, recital 39.
83 GDPR, Art. 4.5°; This is the “processing of personal data in such a way that they can no longer be
be attributed to a specific data subject without recourse to additional information, provided that
these
additional information is kept separately and subject to technical measures and
organizational to ensure that personal data is not assigned to a natural person
identified or identifiable”

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 32/49

146. The Litigation Chamber will examine compliance with the principle of minimization with

each purpose pursued.

A. Management of the Complainant's Disciplinary Cases

147. As mentioned above in Section II.2.1, the keeping of a disciplinary file is necessary for

the exercise of the quasi-judicial functions of the controllers who are the

Provincial Councils and Appeals of the Order. When they exercise their function

disciplinary authority assigned by Royal Decree no. 80, they must process personal data in accordance with

disciplinary matter, in particular transmitting information allowing the assessment of the

recidivism or to pursue disciplinary proceedings at second instance. In this case, the

Litigation Chamber was unable to identify and trace the transfer of the

disciplinary data between the organs of the Order and regrets that the communication and/or

the transmission of disciplinary data to assess the recidivism or the conditions

of eligibility within the organs of the Order themselves have not been explained by the defendant.

148. The Litigation Chamber recalls that the principle of minimization also implies a

restricted access to personal data. Transfers within the Order must

therefore be necessary with regard to the powers of each body.

B. Management of the roll of the Order

149. The Respondent also indicated that the Order’s roll “repeated” or “contained” the

disciplinary sanctions. The defendant also ensured that such treatment respected the

principle of minimization due to its restricted access, which in the future will be even more

restricted because only accessible to

the instructor and the rapporteur of a

instance

disciplinary. The Litigation Chamber questions this assertion: the defendant

seems to confuse the keeping of a disciplinary file and the keeping of the roll of the Order.

150. With regard to the purpose pursued by the management of the Order's register with the related data

disciplinary sanctions, it is not necessary that the entire sanction be accessible via

the consultation of the table of the Order. Only an up-to-date statement of disciplinary status is

sufficient to pursue this purpose.

C. Development of ethical principles based on case law

151. The defendant had also raised its obligation to maintain a directory of

case law. The Litigation Chamber recalls the precise purpose of such a directory that

must pursue the National Council: the development of the principles of ethics.

152. In order to comply with the principle of data minimization, the respondent must implement

adequate measures to manage this repertoire of case law. The defendant should

therefore proceed to the pseudonymization of the personal data included in

a decision.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 33/49

D. Assessment of Eligibility Conditions for Elections to Organs of the Respondent

153. As indicated above, the respondent's organs have an obligation to take into consideration

the disciplinary status of a candidate in their elections. The Litigation Chamber notes

however, this processing does not require consultation of the file and the sanction

entire discipline. A sanction contains a lot of personal data

relating to the behavior of the accused. In order to comply with the principle of minimizing

data, consultation of the table of the Order, where there is a mention of any

sanction, would be sufficient.

E. Communication of disputed data to the CoBRAH database and the

IMI system database

154. With regard to processing aimed at satisfying the legal obligation of the defendant to

transfer data to the mentioned databases, the Litigation Chamber

notes that the reprimand is not a measure restricting or prohibiting the right

to practice the profession of pharmacist. As such, the communication of the disputed data

is not necessary to satisfy the legal obligation of the defendant to transfer to the

other Member States via the IMI system of disciplinary sanctions other than

restrictions or

ban on practicing

the profession of pharmacist. Bedroom

Litigation adds that Article 114/1 of the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 does not provide for the

communication of all the disciplinary data of a pharmacist nor the sanctions

disciplines other than

the restriction or

ban on practicing

the occupation of

pharmacist.

155. Moreover, contrary to the defendant, the Litigation Chamber finds that Article 99, 7°

of the law of 15 May 201584 provides that the data to be transmitted by the defendant to the database

of CoBRAH data are the data relating to the registration on the roll and the withdrawal

temporary or permanent right to exercise. Based on this provision, it appears that the

communication of data relating to disciplinary sanctions not resulting in the

removal from the roll or temporary or permanent withdrawal from practice is not necessary for

fulfill the obligation established by article 99, 7° of the law of 15 May 2015.

156. The Litigation Chamber notes, however, that the defendant invokes, for the transmission of

data to the FPS Public Health, a protocol concluded between the defendant and the FPS Health

public.85 This protocol would establish the communication of all sanctions

 

84 Coordinated law of 10 May 2015, art. 99: “The following services, organizations and persons provide the bank with
permanent federal data of health care professionals the following data:
[…]
 7° the Order, with regard to professional addresses as well as data relating to registration on the roll and
temporary or permanent withdrawal of the right to practice but without mentioning the reasons justifying this withdrawal;
[…]”
85 Respondent's Submissions, p. 50, §119.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 34/49

to the FPS Public Health but was not provided by the defendant to the Chamber

Litigation and is not freely accessible.

157. The Litigation Division finds that this protocol does not meet the requirements of

Article 6.1.c of the GDPR to constitute a legislative provision imposing an obligation

legal because this protocol is not foreseeable for the persons concerned (point 84).

158. The Litigation Chamber then concludes that the defendant violated Article 5.1.c of the GDPR by

proceeding to the communication of data relating to minor sanctions which were not

not necessary for the purpose pursued

 

II.6. As to Article 5(1)(d) (principle of correctness)

159. The principle of accuracy in Article 5(1)(d) GDPR implies that personal data

collected must “be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all measurements

reasonable steps should be taken to ensure that the personal data which is

inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or

rectified without delay”. In concrete terms, this measure of accuracy translates into

specific guarantees which are the rectification of data86, the erasure of data which

are inaccurate and no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were

collected87 or the limitation of processing for a period allowing the

controller to verify the accuracy of the personal data88.

An additional link to the principle of accuracy, updating data takes on a

much more concrete practicality. As soon as an update opportunity arises

to the controller, the latter must enter it.

160. The purpose of this principle is to fight against obsolete data whose use is made of it

may be irrelevant or even harmful to the data subject.

161. In its Nowak judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union clarified how the

compliance with this principle had to be assessed: "the completeness and accuracy of data to be

personal character must be assessed in the light of the purpose for which these data were

been collected”90. This implies that the data controller adopts measures

reasonable to ensure the accuracy of the personal data it processes.

Compliance with this principle is assessed with more or less severity depending on the effects

 

86 GDPR, Art. 16
87 GDPR, Art. 17.1.a
88 GDPR, Art. 18.1.a
89 G. HAAS, Legal guide to the GDPR: the regulations on the protection of personal data, 3 ed, Edition ENI, 2022,
p. 86 to 89.
90 CJEU, judgment of December 20, 2017, Nowak v. Data Protection Commissioner, C-434/16, § 53.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 35/49

the processing of inaccurate data on the rights and interests of the data subject. This

principle of accuracy establishes an obligation of means91.

162. The GDPR does not define the term “accuracy”. The Article 29 Working Party

clarified that: “As a general rule, “accurate” means “accurate with respect to a

done”92. It follows from this interpretation that the accuracy of subjective information cannot

be challenged under the principle of accuracy of the GDPR. However, the border between the

objective and subjective character of a datum is not always clear. Therefore, in the

within the framework of the processing of a sanction or a formal opinion issued by a disciplinary body,

when such an opinion is based on normative texts whose legality has been contested, the

treatment of the opinion in question may be challenged under the principle of accuracy.94

163. As a reminder, the Litigation Division is not competent to determine whether a

sanction adopted following the acts carried out by the plaintiff could be pronounced under

of the new Code of Ethics of the Order of Pharmacists. Likewise, the Chamber

Litigation does not question the existence of the acts carried out by the complainant which

led the French-speaking Appeals Council of the Order to note a breach of the principles

essentials of the profession of pharmacist and to sanction it (point 11).

164. However, the Litigation Chamber is surprised that the disciplinary bodies of the Order

were not more alarmed about a potential update of the disciplinary file following

the adoption of the new Code of Ethics and/or decisions of the ABC within the framework of

the management of disciplinary cases. The Litigation Chamber considers that the authorities

disciplinary measures of the Order should reasonably foresee – at least after the adoption

the new Code of Ethics – updates to disciplinary records, including

to verify whether the retained data still reflected an accurate disciplinary status at the

regard to the normative framework of the pharmacy profession. In the present case, the defendant

should have checked whether the sanctions imposed on the complainant on the basis of

the old edition of the Code of Ethics would be pronounced again under this

new Code and whether, in the light of this review, the maintenance of the disciplinary sanction

pronounced against the Complainant still reflected an accurate disciplinary status.

165. In addition, the Litigation Chamber once again reminds the controller

that, as indicated above (point 160), the purpose of this principle is to fight against data

obsolete whose use may appear irrelevant, or even

detrimental to the person concerned. This situation appears to be the case here.

 

91 C. DE TERWANGNE, “Principles relating to the processing of personal data and its legality”, in C. DE
TERWANGNE, K. ROSIER (dir.), The General Data Protection Regulation (RGPD/GDPR) – In-depth analysis,
Brussels, 2018, p. 111.
92 G29, Guidelines on the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case “Google
Spain and Inc. / Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos (AEPD) and Mario Costeja Gonzalez”, C-131/12, p. 17.
93 C. DE TERWANGNE, op. quoted, p. 111.
94 C. DE TERWANGNE, op. cit., p. 112.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 36/49

since the disputed data, namely the sanction pronounced in 2018 against the

complainant on the basis of the old Code, are processed to assess the recidivism and/or the

conditions of eligibility of the complainant to the various councils of the Order.

166. The Litigation Chamber finds that the defendant has, despite the adoption of the new Code

of ethics, continued to process the disputed data of the complainant without even

consider a potential update of her disciplinary file since the complainant does not

still could not stand for election to the organs of the defendant. On the other hand, the

facts at the origin of the sanction could expose it, within the framework of new procedures

disciplinary measures, to a more severe sanction due to a recidivism. When requesting

deletion of the complainant in 2020, such damages should have motivated the Board

provincial to re-examine the relevance of maintaining the disciplinary sanction of the

complainant in his disciplinary file, for which he was responsible. In its conclusions and when

of the hearing, the defendant could not moreover affirm that such a sanction would be

pronounced again after the adoption of the new ROI, proving that the revaluation of the

continuation of the disciplinary sanction in the complainant's file was not examined.

167. This evaluation on the part of the Provincial Council should not be understood as an

second chance of an appeal against the decision to cancel the sanction. It aims to assess the

relevance of updating the disciplinary status of a pharmacist by determining whether the

presence of a disciplinary decision is always relevant in his disciplinary file.

This update of the disciplinary file does not entail the cancellation of the decision

disciplinary in the case law of counsel for the respondent.

168. In light of the foregoing, the Litigation Division finds that the defendant has not

mobilized sufficient resources to respect the principle of accuracy. By not having

re-examined the complainant's disciplinary file after the adoption of the

new Code of Ethics, despite the prejudices raised by the complainant and the

serious indications of the lack of merit in maintaining such a sanction, the defendant

violates Article 5(1)(d) GDPR.

 

II.7. Regarding the violation of Article 10 of the GDPR

169. Regarding the processing of personal data relating to convictions

criminal offenses and offences, Article 10 of the GDPR specifies that “any complete register of

criminal convictions can only be held under the control of public authority”. THE

GDPR requires that such processing, when not carried out under the control of

public authority, are governed by Union law or by the law of a Member State

which provides appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 37/49

170. In order to delimit the material scope of the GDPR, the Litigation Chamber verifies

if the processing of ethical sanctions is not included in the processing of

personal data excluded from the scope of the GDPR. Indeed, article 2,

paragraph 2, d) of the GDPR95 excludes from the material scope of the GDPR the processing

data protected by Directive 2016/680 of April 27, 2016 (hereinafter the Police-

Justice)96.

171. To fall within the scope of the Police-Justice Directive, data processing

data must meet two cumulative conditions. On the one hand, he must pursue one of the

purposes mentioned in Article 1, namely the prevention and detection of offenses

criminal proceedings, investigation and prosecution thereof or the execution of criminal penalties97.

On the other hand, the processing, whatever its purpose, must be implemented by an authority

competent within the meaning of Article 3(7) of the Police-Justice Directive98.

172. Conversely, Article 10 of the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of persons

with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter “framework law”)

specifies that the entities referred to in Article 10 of the GDPR, and therefore which are not authorities

authorities within the meaning of Article 3.7 of the Police-Justice Directive, may be

legal persons governed by public law, provided that the management of their own litigation

demands it. The Litigation Chamber considers that the Order of Pharmacists corresponds to

this definition, because of his findings in Section II.1. The defendant is therefore excluded

of the personal scope of the Police-Justice Directive and Article 10 of the GDPR can

potentially be applied to it.

173. The Litigation Division must still determine whether a disciplinary sanction can be

considered as a criminal conviction, a concept which is not defined by the GDPR. It's necessary

therefore turn to the Police-Justice Directive. According to recital 13 of the directive

Police-Justice, the concept of criminal offense is an autonomous concept of EU law

 

95 Article 2.2.d): “[…]2. This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data carried out:
[…] (d) by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
prosecution or execution of criminal penalties, including protection against security threats
public and the prevention of such threats. »
96 Directive 2016/680 of the Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to
the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection
criminal offences, investigation and prosecution thereof or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.
97 Police-Justice Directive, art. 1.1.
98 Article 3.7 of the Police-Justice Directive: ““competent authority”:

(a) Any public authority competent for the prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations and
prosecution or execution of criminal penalties, including protection against security threats
public and the prevention of such threats; Or

b) Any other body or entity to which the law of a Member State entrusts the exercise of official authority and prerogatives
of public power for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
matter or execution of criminal sanctions, including protection against threats to public security and
prevention of such threats; »
99 Framework law, art. 10, §1:
“In execution of Article 10 of the Regulation, the processing of personal data relating to convictions
offenses and criminal offenses or related security measures is carried out:
1° by natural persons or legal persons governed by public or private law provided that the management of
their own litigation requires it; […]”

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 38/49

European Union and in accordance with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union (here

after "CJEU"). To assess the criminal nature of a sanction, the CJEU100 adopted the

same criteria as the European Court of Human Rights in its judgment in Engel101: the

first is the legal qualification in domestic law of the sanction, the second, the nature

of the offense and, third, the degree of severity of the sanction102.

174. On the basis of these elements, the Litigation Division finds that a disciplinary sanction

is not considered criminal in nature under Belgian law. This criterion is not

however not decisive. The nature of the offence, as targeted by sanctions

major, has repressive objectives against behavior deemed contrary

to the essential principles of the profession, with the aim of preserving the interests

generals of society, such as public health. The severity of a disciplinary sanction

major, in

prohibiting

the exercise of a professional practice, would likewise be

high enough to meet the third condition set out in case law

of the ECHR. The second and third conditions are therefore met for sanctions

majors. But this is not the case for a minor sanction such as a reprimand.

Therefore, the Litigation Chamber concludes that Article 10 of the GDPR does not apply to

processing carried out on the data of the complainant.

 

II.8. As to the request for erasure of the complainant's data and the breach of

GDPR article 17

II.8.1. On the violation of Article 17 in 2020

175. First of all, with regard to the request for erasure submitted by the complainant in

January 2020, the Litigation Chamber finds that its request was mainly

based on the fact that, according to the complainant, the sanction adopted in 2016 was to be

considered illegal following the decisions of the ABC and the adoption of the new Code. There

Litigation Chamber is not competent to rule on the legality of the sanction

in question with regard to competition law or pharmaceutical ethics

current. It cannot therefore find a violation of Article 17.1.d committed by the

defendant when he indicated that the sanction adopted was not illegal, and therefore the

subsequent processing of the data of this sanction either.104

 

100 CJEU (large ch.), 5 June 2012, judgment Prokurator Generalny v Łukasz Marcin Bonda, C-489/10, § 37.
101 ECHR, 8 June 1976, Engel and others v. Netherlands, 5100/71, 5101/71, 5102/71, 5354/72, 5370/72, § 80-83.
102 See, to this effect, CJEU, 5 June 2012, Bonda, C‑489/10, § 37; CJEU, March 20, 2018, judgment Garlsson Real Estate and Others, C-537/16,
§ 28, as well as CJEU, 2 February 2021, Consob judgment, C‑481/19, § 42.
103CJEU, June 22, 202, Latvijas Republikas Saelma, C-439/19, § 88.
104 If the defendant was not required to delete all references to the disputed data and stop all processing
involving this disputed data, at least he should then have examined the accuracy of the complainant's disciplinary status
(Section II.6).

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 39/49

176. Furthermore, as early as 2020, the complainant also raised the lack of an adequate duration policy

retention by the defendant and noted that his sanction had been retained for

excessive duration. Erasure therefore had to be applied due to processing

unlawful in accordance with Article 17.1.d of the GDPR. The Litigation Chamber cannot

however, to follow the complainant's reasoning. A shelf life of less than

four years for a minor disciplinary sanction does not seem a priori excessive

Litigation Chamber. And only the absence of a retention period policy for

disputed data is not an offense serious enough to warrant erasure

disputed data requested. The Respondent therefore did not violate Article 17.1.d when

its refusal to comply with the complainant's request in 2020.

 

II.8.2. On the application of the right to erasure as provided for in Article 17 of the GDPR

177. In its complaint filed in 2022, the Litigation Chamber notes that the complainant

invokes Article 17, paragraph 1, a), d) and e) of the GDPR to request the erasure of these

disputed data. The complainant's request seeks to erase the disputed data from the

complainant's personal file. Based on the conclusions of the complainant and her complaint,

the Litigation Chamber understands that the complainant wishes that the disciplinary sanction

pronounced in 2016 be removed from his disciplinary file and that, consequently, the

processing in connection with his disciplinary status (more particularly the evaluation of

conditions of eligibility for elections to the organs of the defendant and for the status of master of

internship) come to an end.

178. Pursuant to Article 17(1)(d) of the GDPR, a data subject may request

this deletion when the processing of his data is unlawful. This provision aims between

others the violation of the principle of lawfulness of article 5.1.a of the GDPR. The Court of Justice extended

the scope of this provision and specified that unlawful processing may result from other

situations in which the data is “inadequate, irrelevant or excessive to the

with regard to the purposes of the processing, that they are not updated or that they are kept

for a period exceeding that necessary, unless their retention is required for

historical, statistical or scientific purposes. »105. This interpretation is also

confirmed by the European Data Protection Board: “the notion of processing

unlawful must be interpreted in the light of Article 6 of the GDPR relating to the lawfulness of the processing.

Other principles established by the GDPR (such as the principles referred to in Article 5 or in

other provisions of Chapter II) may favor this interpretation”106.

105 CJEU, judgment of 13 May 2014, Google Spain SL and Google Inc, C-131/12, §92.
106 EDPS, Guidelines 5/2019 on criteria for the right to be forgotten under the GDPR in the context of search engines
p. 10 §35-36.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 40/49

179. In view of all the foregoing considerations, the Litigation Division finds

that the defendant fails to demonstrate compliance with the principle of purpose limitation and

minimization of data (see sections II.4 and II.5) or compliance with the principle

of accuracy (see section II.6) in the context of the processing carried out with the data

contentious. The Litigation Chamber then declared the processing of the disputed data

illicit.

180. This unlawful processing involves serious offences, including the violation of several

essential principles of the GDPR and, therefore, the complainant is entitled to request

the erasure of the disputed data from his disciplinary file pursuant to Article 17,

paragraph 1, d) of the GDPR.

181. The retention of the disputed data in the complainant's disciplinary file,

kept for more than five years at the time of the adoption of this decision, is no longer

relevant.

182. The Litigation Chamber notes that the defendant raises two exceptions to the right

deletion of personal data applicable to his situation: the processing is

necessary to comply with a legal obligation (article 17.3.b of the GDPR) and to defend

his legal rights (article 17.3.e of the GDPR).

183. Among the legal obligations invoked, the Respondent mentions the provisions of Royal Decree

#80. As expressed by the Litigation Chamber above, article 15 of RD n°80

indeed mentions the keeping of a register of disciplinary decisions but whose purpose is

clearly defined: “to adapt, if necessary, the code of ethics in order to supplement or

specify the provisions on the basis of this case law”. This specific treatment has not

link with the management of disciplinary cases and does not require the maintenance of data

contentious in his disciplinary file.

184. Moreover, the mission put forward by the defendant to keep the roll of the Order cannot be

opposed to the request for erasure: the personal data included in the

table of the Order must reflect the disciplinary status of a pharmacist, which depends on a

updated disciplinary record. In reality, the erasure of the disputed data from the file

disciplinary action should lead de facto to the erasure of the mention of the sanction on the

table of the Order. Regarding the other purposes pursued with the disputed data

(evaluation of the conditions of eligibility for elections and for the status of internship supervisor), the

same reasoning can be applied to them: the cancellation of a disciplinary sanction

should logically lead to the cessation of these treatments.

185. With regard to the other legal obligations put forward by the Respondent, which consist in

communicate

personal data relating to all

punishments

disciplinary decisions, whether minor or major, to two databases

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 41/49

under the coordinated law of 10 May 2015, as mentioned above, the

disputed data in question are not relevant to achieve these purposes (points 155

at 157). The defendant cannot therefore set up these two legal obligations against the request

erasure of the complainant.

186. With regard to the exception raised to defend its interests in court (Article 17.3.e

of the GDPR), the Litigation Chamber noted that the defendant could use the data

disputed before the Council of State. This legal defense only involves the processing of

disputed data by the National Council, the only body empowered to represent the

respondent. It does not require the contentious data to be kept in the file

disciplinary proceedings against the complainant, held by the competent Provincial Council.

187. In conclusion, on the basis of the elements noted above, the Litigation Division

orders the defendant to erase the disputed data from the disciplinary file of the

complainant.

188. The Litigation Chamber recalls that

the controller is required,

in accordance with Article 19 of the GDPR, by a notification obligation with regard to

erasure of personal data. The controller notifies the

each recipient to whom the personal data has been communicated

erasure of personal data carried out in accordance with Article 17.1 of the

GDPR, unless such communication proves impossible or requires efforts

disproportionate. The controller provides the data subject with

information on these recipients if the latter so requests.

 

II.9. As for the adoption of new internal regulations and violations of

GDPR articles 23, 35 and 36

II.9.1. Position of parties

189. The defendant announced the adoption of the new ROI of the National Council. This new ROI puts

put in place mechanisms for erasure and rehabilitation. They aim to erase the sanctions

minor and major disciplinary actions, with respective procedures. According to the defendant,

this new ROI would make it possible to respond to the complainant's grievance.

190. The complainant points out that each body of the Order has been granted the power by Royal Decree to establish

its own ROI to regulate its internal functioning: each of the provincial councils

(art. 5 AR n°80), each of the appeal boards (art. 12 AR n°80) and the National Council (art. 14

AR no. 80). The complainant emphasizes that the ROI of the National Council aims, like all

the ROI of the other bodies of the order, to regulate the internal functioning of the Council

national, and not to create rules of law enforceable against other counsel and

pharmacists.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 42/49

191. The Complainant is surprised that the Respondent has – to complete the current legal framework –

amended the ROI of the National Council to comply with the provisions of the GDPR, which

would violate Articles 23, 35 and 36 of the GDPR and Articles 6 and 13 ECHR.

192. With regard to the status of the new ROI adopted on September 22, 2022, the complainant

regrets that the defendant does not communicate the entirety of the new ROI but only

excerpts, nor the complete deliberation of September 22, 2022. She adds that no one

can say that this new ROI will actually be in effect one day.

193. With regard to the content of the new ROI, the plaintiff is surprised that the defendant

be set aside from the recommendations (adoption of a formal law) which he nevertheless requested from

the share of ODA in 2020 and completed the current legal framework by modifying the ROI of

National Council to comply with the provisions of the GDPR, which would violate Article 23 of the

GDPR.

194. The Respondent contests the violations alleged by the Complainant arising from the adoption of

this king. Articles 23, 35 and 36 of the GDPR establish obligations on the part of the

authorities of the Member States, and not on the part of the data controllers.

 

II.9.2. Position of the Chamber

195. The Litigation Chamber finds that each organ of the Order is competent to

adopt its own ROI. Unlike the National Council107, each Provincial Council108

and each Appeals Council109 establish their own ROI which they submit to the Council

National which definitively adopts the text.

196. In view of all the foregoing considerations, the Litigation Chamber concludes

that the National Council is not empowered to adopt a ROI applicable to all bodies.

The National Council could not then impose its ROI on the defendant's other bodies,

namely the Provincial Councils and the Appeals Councils. Therefore, the Litigation Chamber

excludes from its examination the new ROI proposed by the defendant and ultimately excludes from the analysis

the alleged violations of Articles 23, 35 and 36 of the GDPR as well as Articles 6 and 13 of

the ECHR alleged by the complainant.

 

III. Corrective measures and sanction

197. In addition to the corrective measures aimed at bringing the processing into compliance with Articles

5.1.a, 5.1.b, 5.1.c, 5.1.b and 5.1.e of the GDPR and to comply with the request to erase the data

107 AR no. 80, art. 14, §2.
108 AR no. 80, art. 5, paragraph 1.
109 AR no. 80, art. 12 and 13.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 43/49

litigation of the plaintiff of her disciplinary file, the Litigation Chamber decides

also to impose an administrative fine of 30,000 Euro, the purpose of which is not to

put an end to an offense committed but also to effectively apply the rules of the

GDPR. As is clear from recital 148, the GDPR indeed provides that

sanctions, including administrative fines, be imposed for any violation

serious - therefore including the first observation of a violation -, in addition to or

the place of the appropriate measures that are imposed.110 The Litigation Chamber demonstrates

hereinafter that the violations of the principles of Article 5 of the GDPR committed by the defendant

are by no means minor violations and that the fine would not constitute a

disproportionate burden on a natural person within the meaning of recital 148 of the GDPR,

two cases in which a fine could be waived. The fact that this is a first

finding of a violation of the GDPR committed by the defendant does not affect the

possibility for the Litigation Chamber to impose an administrative fine. Bedroom

Litigation imposes an administrative fine pursuant to Article 58.2 i) of the GDPR.

The instrument of the administrative fine is in no way intended to put an end to the violations.

To this end, the GDPR and the LCA provide for several corrective measures, including the orders cited

in article 100, § 1, 8° and 9° of the LCA.

198. Having regard to Article 83 of the GDPR, the case law111 of the Court of Markets as well as the criteria

set out in the EDPB guidelines on the calculation of administrative fines112, the

Litigation Chamber justifies the imposition of an administrative fine in a

concrete :

-

The faulty behavior of the defendant: The violation found concerns the principles

basis for the processing of data provided for in Article 5 of the GDPR. However, these principles

have been in effect since May 25, 2018. The Respondent admitted to conducting a reflection

on an adaptation of its data protection policy, since 2020.

However, a reflection is not enough and should materialize in

measures to bring the processing carried out into compliance with the

disputed data. This reflection has not yet solved the problems

 

110 Recital 148 provides the following: "In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this Regulation, penalties
including administrative fines should be imposed for any violation of this Regulation, in addition
or in lieu of appropriate measures imposed by the Supervisory Authority under this Regulation. In case of violation
minor or if the fine likely to be imposed constitutes a disproportionate burden for a natural person, a
a call to order may be issued rather than a fine. However, due consideration should be given to the nature,
seriousness and duration of the violation, the intentional nature of the violation and the measures taken to mitigate the
damage suffered, the degree of liability or any relevant violation previously committed, the manner in which
the supervisory authority became aware of the violation, compliance with the measures ordered against the person responsible for the
treatment or the processor, the application of a code of conduct, and any other aggravating or
mitigating. The application of sanctions, including administrative fines, should be subject to procedural safeguards
appropriate in accordance with the general principles of Union law and the Charter, including the right to protection
effective jurisdiction and due process. [proper underline]
111 Court of Appeal of Brussels (Cour des Marchés section), X c. DPA, Judgment 2020/1471 of February 19, 2020.
112 EDPB, Guidelines 04/2022 on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR, version 2.0, p. 17-25, available
at https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2023-06/edpb_guidelines_042022_calculationofadministrativefines_en.pdf

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 44/49

brought to light by the plaintiff and of which the defendant knew of the existence and its

potential damage for several years. Consequently, the Chamber

Litigation finds the defendant's behavior negligent. This finding allows him

to consider the imposition of an administrative fine.113

-

The seriousness of the breach: the provisions breached are at the heart of the GDPR: the

basic principles of processing under Article 5 of the GDPR. violations of

aforementioned items carry the highest fines of section 83.5

GDPR.

 

Moreover,

the processing in question relates to

sanction management

disciplinary of pharmacists. The offense related to the performance of this processing is

therefore likely to cause harm to the persons concerned. The defendant being

mandated by law to pursue a mission of public interest at the national level, the

processing operations in question are also national in scope and may affect

all pharmacists practicing in Belgium given that the offenses

stem from gaps in the overall privacy policy of the

defendant, and not an isolated case.

- As for the level of damage suffered114, the plaintiff claims non-pecuniary damage in

reason for damage to reputation as well as a possible refusal of approval as a master

internship and non-eligibility with the various organs of the defendant. These

damage can reach all

the persons concerned having been

sanctioned by the defendant. The Litigation Chamber does not have the

exact number of pharmacists who have been or are subject to a sanction

disciplinary.115 The Chamber therefore finds that a moderate number of

concerned may potentially suffer moderate damage due to

the observed violation.

 

 

 

-

The duration of the violation: the Litigation Chamber finds that the defendant has a

inadequate data protection policy, in particular with regard to

 

113 See in particular the opinion of Advocate General N. EMILIOU in case C-683/21, §77-78, for whom the finding of a
negligence is a minimum requirement for imposing an administrative fine.
114 See in particular recital 75 of the GDPR.
115 For example, according to the 2021 Annual Report of the National Council of the Order of Pharmacists, 44 sanctions were
pronounced in 2021, figures up on previous years. The Litigation Division deduces from this that it
there is a moderate number of pharmacists for whom the defendant maintains a disciplinary file.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 45/49

the application of the principles of legality, minimization of data, limitation of

purposes and limitation of storage, since at least February 5, 2018,

the adoption of the sanction against the complainant. The violation of these principles

for which the Litigation Chamber is competent therefore lasts since May 25

2018.

 

Regarding the violation of the principle of accuracy, the Litigation Chamber

notes that the Respondent adopted a new Code of Ethics in January 2020,

Code that should be more liberal towards new advertising methods. There

complainant also challenged the merits of her sanction on January 27, 2020 by

sending a formal notice to the defendant. In 2023, the defendant had no

verified the relevance of maintaining the complainant's sanction with regard to the

new provisions of the Code of Ethics. The Litigation Chamber

therefore considers that this part of the infringement began in January 2020.

 

- On the absence of mitigating circumstances: the Litigation Chamber that the
initiatives mentioned by the defendant are not in order to mitigate the fine

imposed. Indeed, the GDPR was adopted in 2016, and came into force in 2018.

Compliance with GDPR principles should have been achieved upon entry into force

of the GDPR. Moreover, in the light of the findings of this decision, these efforts

were not sufficient to resolve the subject matter of the complaint.

-

The necessary deterrent effect to prevent further violations: The

defendant considers that its data protection policy is not illegal.

In order to justify possible breaches of the GDPR, the defendant argued that he

was not his responsibility to solve this problem, but the legislator. Such a

position demonstrates a misunderstanding of the importance of legislation in

with regard to the protection of personal data, in particular

basic principles of data processing. The Litigation Chamber considers

therefore, recourse to an administrative fine is necessary.

 

All of the elements set out above justify an effective, proportionate sanction

and dissuasive, as referred to in Article 83 of the GDPR, taking into account the assessment criteria

that it contains. The Litigation Chamber draws attention to the fact that the other criteria

of Article 83.2 of the GDPR are not, in this case, likely to lead to another fine

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 46/49

administrative than that defined by the Litigation Chamber within the framework of this

decision.

199. In response to the Sanction Form, Respondent submits in summary that the

Litigation Chamber is based on elements contrary to those appearing in the documents

of the file and demonstrates a lack of understanding of the legislative framework, the role and the powers

of the order. The Respondent advances arguments on the merits to illustrate its point.

folder. The Litigation Division considers that the reasoning for this decision

responds to the arguments put forward by the defendant in its reaction.

200. With regard to

the criteria taken into consideration for

impose a fine

administrative, the respondent argues that:

i.

The Litigation Division indicated that the duration of the offense should be calculated at

from December 22, 2016 but that it was competent only from May 25

2018. However, according to the defendant, the date of December 22, 2016 should not be taken

taken into account, given that the sanction only became effective from the 5

February 2018. Moreover, even if the Litigation Division is only competent to

from May 25, 2018, it does not take into account the measures taken by

Order to address data retention issues.

ii.

The Litigation Chamber indicated that the defendant should have taken

initiatives as soon as the GDPR comes into force, and that the solution to the problems of

data protection could not be the sole responsibility of the legislator. According to him, the

defendant assumed its responsibilities, going so far as to adopt countermeasures

legem, in order to bring the processing carried out into compliance with the principles of

GDPR.

iii.

The defendant disputes the characterization of his behavior as “negligent”.

Contrary to what the Litigation Chamber wrote in its form, the

the defendant's reflection began as early as 2020 (and not in 2023), as demonstrated

documents in the file. The defendant would be the only order, among the professions

regulated, to have taken concrete measures to remedy this problem.

iv.

The defendant argues that the moral damage suffered by the plaintiff is not

sufficiently proven, and is based only on the statements of the complainant.

v.

The defendant indicates that he is not responsible for the negative opinions given by the

universities due to the existence of a disciplinary sanction, or the non-

eligibility of candidates to the organs of the Order. According to the defendant, it is the

legislator who has provided for ineligibility without time limit.

vi.

The Litigation Chamber is not competent to decide whether a sanction

discipline is warranted or not.

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 47/49

vii.

The Litigation Chamber takes no mitigating circumstances in

consideration.

viii.

The penalty imposed on the complainant was canceled on March 1, 2023,

following the adoption of the new ROI of the National Council.

201. The elements of the sanction form taken into consideration by the Litigation Division

are discussed below.

202. The Litigation Division took into consideration the Respondent's remarks regarding the

effective date of the disciplinary sanction, and therefore of the start date of the processing

carried out with the disputed data: the sanction became effective on February 5, 2018. This

change of date has no influence on the relevant duration of the infringement of the

GDPR, which started on May 25, 2018.

203. As to the arguments put forward in point 200, i. and ii., the measurements shown were not

still adopted when the debates were closed. No tangible proof of adoption

no such measures have been brought before the Litigation Chamber. Moreover, when well

even reflections began in 2020, the GDPR requires compliance of all processing,

and this from May 25, 2018. A reflection that did not resolve the subject of the complaint before the closing

of the debates cannot exonerate a data controller of his breaches of the GDPR.

204. As for the moral damage suffered, recital 75 of the GDPR indicates that the supervisory authorities

must take into account not only the damage suffered, but also the risks

of damage. Data processed by the defendant relating to disciplinary sanctions,

an absence of retention limits for such data is highly likely to

stigmatize the persons concerned whose disciplinary, minor or

major, kept in a disciplinary file and processed without time limit.

205. The respondent is the controller of the processing mentioned in this decision. He

It is therefore up to the defendant to apply the principles of the GDPR to such processing.

The argument in point 200, v., is irrelevant.

206. If the Litigation Chamber is not competent to rule on the legality or

advisability of adopting a disciplinary sanction, it is however appropriate for

issues relating to the processing of data contained in these sanctions.

207. As for the assessment of mitigating circumstances, the steps taken by the

defendant did not prove to be effective in the eyes of the Litigation Chamber. However, the

EDPS guidelines indicate that the measures undertaken by a respondent must

be examined with regard to their effectiveness and their time frame for adoption.116 However, it is clear that

find that the measures put forward by the defendant had not yet been adopted

116 EDPB, Guidelines 04/2022 on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR, version 2.0, p. 27, § 76.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 48/49

at the close of the debate. Moreover, the defendant's reflection spanned from 2020 to

2023. The Litigation Chamber does not claim that bringing processing into compliance

made by the defendant is an easy task and does not dispute the difficulties

by the health crisis. But the GDPR having entered into force as of May 25, 2018, this

The process should therefore have started much earlier.

208. As for the cancellation of the disciplinary sanction on March 1, 2023, the Respondent does not

no concrete evidence. Moreover, if this deletion took place, it was carried out after the

closure of the debates.

209. On the basis of all the elements set out above, the Litigation Division decides

to adjust the proposed penalty from 50,000 euros to 30,000 euros. The shortcomings

identified justify an effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanction referred to in Article 83

AVG, taking into account the evaluation criteria set out therein. The Litigation Chamber

considers that a lower fine would not meet the criteria required by Article 83,

paragraph 1 of the AVG, according to which the administrative fine must not only be

proportionate, but also effective and dissuasive.

 

IV. Publication of the decision

210. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber

Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Protection Authority

Datas. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of

the complainant are communicated directly.

211. In this case, the Litigation Chamber decides to publish this decision with

identification of the defendant's data.

212. The Litigation Chamber specifies that this publication with identification pursues

several goals.

213. It pursues, as far as the defendant is concerned, an objective of general interest. The identification of

the defendant is also necessary for the proper understanding of the decision and therefore,

the materialization of the objective of transparency pursued by the policy of publication of

decisions of the Litigation Chamber.

 

Decision on the merits 77/2023 – 49/49

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:

- Pursuant to Article 100, §1, 13° and 101 of the LCA, to impose an administrative fine

€30,000 to the defendant for violations of articles 5.1.a, 5.1.b, 5.1.c, 5.1.d,

5.1.e GDPR.

- Pursuant to Article 100, §1, 6° of the LCA, to comply with the request of the

complainant, i.e. to erase the data relating to his disciplinary sanction from his

disciplinary record.

- Pursuant to Article 100, §1, 9° of the LCA, to order compliance of the

treatment, more particularly with articles 5.1.a, 5.1.b, 5.1.c, 5.1.d and 5.1.e of the

GDPR.

 

In accordance with Article 108, § 1 of the LCA, an appeal against this decision may be lodged,

within thirty days of its notification, to the Court of Markets (court

d'appel de Bruxelles), with the Data Protection Authority as defendant.

Such an appeal may be introduced by means of an interlocutory request which must contain the

information listed in article 1034ter of the Judicial Code117. The interlocutory motion must be

filed with the registry of the Market Court in accordance with article 1034quinquies of C. jud.118, or

via the e-Deposit information system of the Ministry of Justice (article 32ter of the C. jud.).

 

 

(se). Hielke HIJMANS

President of the Litigation Chamber

 
117 The motion contains on pain of nullity:
the indication of the day, month and year;

business;

1°
2° the surname, first name, domicile of the applicant, as well as, where applicable, his qualities and his national register number or number

3° the surname, first name, domicile and, where applicable, the capacity of the person to be summoned;
(4) the object and summary statement of the means of the request;
(5) the indication of the judge who is seized of the application;
6° the signature of the applicant or his lawyer.

118 The request, accompanied by its appendix, is sent, in as many copies as there are parties involved, by letter
recommended to the court clerk or filed with the court office.

