1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00152/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The inspection actions are initiated by the receipt of a letter of
security bankruptcy notification sent by FUNDACION SINDROME 5P
LESS THAN CV in which they inform the AEPD that the previous managerial positions
of the Vice Presidency and Secretariat, which in turn performed the functions of
responsible for the management and security of the information, have not returned the
documents and devices

SECOND: In view of the aforementioned data security breach notification
data, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigation actions, having knowledge of the following
ends:

BACKGROUND

Security breach notification date: October 10, 2019

INVESTIGATED ENTITY

SYNDROME FOUNDATION 5 P LESS THAN C.V. (hereinafter Foundation) with NIF
G54272836, and with address at Calle Calitxe nº 6, 03690 San Vicente del Raspeig,
Alicante.

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

1. On October 31, 2019, information is requested from the Foundation and from the

response received on November 14, 2019 shows:

Regarding the Foundation.

As stated on the website www.fundaciónsindrome5p.org, the

Foundation is a non-profit organization under the tutelage of the
Protectorate exercised by the Generalitat Valenciana, which allocates all
its heritage in helping and informing families with members affected by a
rare syndrome.

On December 13, 2018, the management positions of Secretary


and Vice President resigned from the Foundation before a notary public.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

The Foundation has provided a copy of the modifications of the

Statutes where it is stated -in article 16- that the custody of the
documentation are functions of the Secretary.

Regarding the facts and causes of the incident. Measures to minimize
incidence

The security breach has been caused because the above

Secretary and Vice President of the Foundation have not returned the files
computer systems, supports, documents, account control, etc., after his resignation
as trustees of the Foundation on 12/13/2018.

The facts have been denounced before the Court of Instruction of San

Vicente del Raspeig on July 16, 2019 and the
documentation and personal data to those denounced on several occasions, without
receive reply.

The Foundation has provided a copy of the complaint before the aforementioned Court where it is
revealed, among other aspects, that the defendants have not delivered all the
documentation missing the children's medical records, among other documents.

Regarding the affected data.

The Foundation states that the number of affected is

approximately 220 people and the documents contain data
personal information of those affected (many of them minors) and relatives, diagnosis
clinic, degree of dependency, level, family economic situation, numbers
of account, information of parents, siblings and affected.
The Foundation is aware of and has provided an email to the

respect, that the email data has been used to send
emails to the associates of the Foundation after the resignation of the
aforementioned management positions. The aforementioned e-mail provided is dated
December 14, 2018. The following appears as the header of the email:

--------- Forwarded message -------
From: A.A.A. <***EMAIL.1>
Date: Fri, Dec 14 2018 12:45
Subject: IRREVOCABLE RESIGNATION A.A.A. and B.B.B. OF FOUNDATION
5P SYNDROME
To: A.A.A. <***EMAIL.1>, AA B.B.B. ***EMAIL.2

The Foundation has provided a letter addressed to the members of the

Foundation, dated October 15, 2019, informing them that it has been
occurred an incidence of violation of data security such as
consequence of the fact that the previous trustees of the Foundation -with positions of
Vice President and Secretary - have not delivered the documents that
guarded after his resignation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Regarding the actions taken for the final resolution of the incident or for
minimize its impact.

On October 23, 2019, a burofax has been sent to the

former management positions urging them to return the documentation
leveraging the response to a data deletion request.

In said burofax, provided by the Foundation, it appears that the data of those affected have
been blocked in accordance with Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, except
of those treatments to comply with a legal obligation and for the formulation,
exercise or defense of claims.

Likewise, it appears that the deletion of data of the Foundation contained in the
YouTube and Instagram platforms could not be done since they were
published by themselves when they held the positions of Vice President and
Secretary, so the Foundation does not have the keys to manage these
platforms, although they have asked them to control the profiles and be able to
delete the requested personal data.

Finally, in the burofax sent figure. “I take this opportunity to urge you to
deliver any documentation, supports and equipment that they still have from the
Foundation and I remind you that any data processing you do with them,
even its mere conservation lacks any legal basis that legitimizes it”.

The Foundation states that no calls and burofaxes have been collected and
Provides a Certificate from the Postal Service of the attempts to deliver the burofax of
date October 23, 2019.

Regarding the security measures implemented prior to the incident

The Foundation states that all employees sign a clause

confidentiality and provide a model in this regard, indicating that they do not have
signed documents as they have not been returned to the Foundation.

Likewise, they provide the confidentiality clauses attached to the employment contracts
adapted to the RGPD.
  

The Foundation has provided a copy of the Security Document, where


the functions and obligations of the users are indicated, among others.

 
Regarding the measures implemented after the incident.

The Foundation states that new measures have been adopted by not


have the documents:

Appointment of a Data Protection Officer.
Renewal of confidentiality and privacy policy documents

either
either
information security in accordance with the RGPD and LOPDGDD.
either
of the data.

Making backup copies that guarantee the disposition

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

either
security.
either

Review of procedures for action before bankruptcies of

Implementation of periodic security reviews.

THIRD: On June 17, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the FOUNDATION
SYNDROME 5P LESS THAN C.V. for the alleged infringement of article 33 of the RGPD,
typified in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the aforementioned RGPD, qualified as
minor for purposes of prescription in article 74.m) of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: On 06/16/2020, the initiation agreement was notified to the FOUNDATION
SYNDROME 5P LESS THAN C.V., which did not present allegations.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: After the resignation of the Secretary and Vice President of the Foundation on the date
12/13/2018, they have not returned the computer media that contained personal data
object of treatment by the Foundation as the person in charge.

SECOND: The facts were denounced before the Court of Instruction of San
Vicente del Raspeig on 07/16/2019 claiming the documentation and data
in the possession of the Secretary and Vice President of the Foundation since its
resignation.

THIRD: On 10/10/2019, the Foundation notified the AEPD of the breach of
security:

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

Foundations are governed by Law 50/2002 and establishes, in terms of their creation,
that can be created both privately or by public initiative.

II

In the present case, the Foundation appears as a foundation subject to private law
according to the founding statutes themselves.

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

III

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

Recital 148 of the RGPD states the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

GDPR Article 33, Notification of a Data Security Breach
to the supervisory authority, establishes that:

"1. In case of violation of the security of personal data, the person in charge of the
treatment will notify the competent control authority in accordance with the
article 55 without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after
who was aware of it, unless it is unlikely that such violation
constitutes a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical. If the notification to the supervisory authority does not take place within the period of 72
hours, must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for the delay.

2. The person in charge of the treatment will notify without undue delay the person in charge of the
treatment the violations of the security of the personal data of which it has
knowledge.

3. The notification referred to in section 1 must, at a minimum:

a) describe the nature of the personal data security breach,
including, where possible, the categories and approximate number of stakeholders
affected, and the categories and approximate number of personal data records
affected;
b) communicate the name and contact details of the data protection delegate or
another point of contact where further information can be obtained;
c) describe the possible consequences of the data security breach
personal;
d) describe the measures adopted or proposed by the data controller
to remedy the breach of personal data security, including,
if applicable, the measures taken to mitigate possible negative effects.

4. If it is not possible to provide the information simultaneously, and to the extent that
is not, the information will be provided gradually without undue delay.

5. The data controller will document any breach of data security.
personal data, including the facts related to it, its effects and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

corrective measures taken. Said documentation will allow the authority of
control verify compliance with the provisions of this article.

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in article 73 of the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, it qualifies as “Infringements
considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

r) Failure to comply with the duty to notify the data protection authority of
a breach of security of personal data in accordance with the provisions of
Article 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

The facts revealed in the notification of the security breach in the
information systems of the Foundation and the research carried out by the
AEPD, violate the aforementioned article 33 of the RGPD.

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

IV

It should be noted that the RGPD does not establish a list of security measures
that are applicable according to the data being processed, but
which establishes that the data controller will apply technical measures and
organizations that are appropriate to the risk involved in the treatment, taking into account
account the state of the art, the application costs, the nature, scope,
context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability and seriousness for the
rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. In this regard, the Foundation has
provided an updated security document to the RGPD and LOPDGDD where
The technical and organizational measures adopted include, among others,
others, the confidentiality clause signed at the time by the previous
managers.

In this sense, it should be noted that the documentation in the file
the authorship of the alleged theft of computer equipment is not proven,
supports with personal data nor that the former directors denounced have
made use of the personal data that they contained since the header of the
e-mail provided these circumstances are not inferred. Specifically, it is
of an email <forwarded> (Forwarded message), with origin <From:
A.A.A. <***EMAIL.1>
 A.A.A. <***EMAIL.1>, AA B.B.B.
***EMAIL.2>, that although the content refers to the reasons for the resignation, in

  and recipient <To:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

At no time is there any accredited treatment of data of associates or
affected by the Foundation or origin or destination to other people outside of themselves.

The aforementioned article also regulates that security violations that may
pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons must
be notified to the competent control authority, a circumstance that would be fulfilled in this
case whenever the allegedly stolen data belongs to the category of
data regulated in article 9.1 of the aforementioned RGPD (Treatment of categories
special personal data).

Article 33 of the GDPR explicitly establishes that security breaches,
whenever personal data is affected and implies a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, they must be notified by the
responsible for the treatment within 72 hours after you have had
proof of it to the Control Authority (AEPD).

In the present case, it is clear that the Foundation was aware of the incident of
security breach in December 2018, reported the events before the Court in
dated July 16, 2019 and did not notify the security breach until October 10
of 2019.

In accordance with the foregoing, the Foundation is responsible for the infringement of the
article 33 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD, qualified as mild to
effects of prescription in article 74.m) of the LOPDGDD and punishable with
warning for not appreciating intentionality, being a non-profit foundation and
do not record the existence of a previous infraction

Article 74.m) of the LOPDGDD states:

v

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

(…)
m) Incomplete, late or faulty notification to the data protection authority
information data related to a data security breach
in accordance with the provisions of article 33 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”.

Article 70.1 of the LOPDGDD indicates the responsible subjects.

"1. They are subject to the sanctioning regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and in this organic law:

a) Those responsible for the treatments”.

In the present case, given that the Foundation is a non-profit organization
profit under the tutelage of the Protectorate exercised by the Generalitat Valenciana, which allocates

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

the entirety of its assets in helping and informing families with affected members
due to a rare syndrome, no intentionality or recidivism is observed, it is considered
in accordance with the law, not to impose a sanction consisting of an administrative fine and
replace it with the penalty of warning in accordance with article 76.3 of the
LOPDGDD in relation to article 58.2 b) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE FUNDACIÓN SÍNDROME 5 P LESS THAN C.V., with NIF
G54272836, for an infringement of Article 33 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4
of the RGPD, qualified as mild for prescription purposes in article 74.m) of the
LOPDGDD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FUNDACIÓN SÍNDROME 5 P
LESS THAN CV with NIF G54272836, and with address at Calle Calitxe nº 6, 03690 San
Vicente del Raspeig, Alicante.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

