 

"Change your password tag"

on February 1, 2020

Also this year emphasizes the Bavarian State Commissioner for the
Privacy the importance of choosing secure passwords and gives
tips on this.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, January 31, 2020

For many years, "stolen" access data has been
published or sold for accounts. In many cases it will
facilitated by insufficiently secure passwords. Nevertheless leads -
as in the previous year - the number sequence "123456" the list of popular
ten German passwords, which are published by the Hasso Plattner Institute every year
is published.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “Just imagine what exactly
it would mean for you personally if your data was insecure,
easy-to-break passwords fall into the wrong hands. As a result,
sensitive data may also be affected, such as bank details
information or private chat content. Well-chosen passwords are a
Building block with which you can contribute to the protection of your data. I er-
so dare to use the "Change your password tag" to change your
to make access data more secure. Protecting your privacy is
worth investing a little time.”

What you should pay particular attention to when choosing passwords:

Use passwords with at least eight characters. To use
Please also use upper and lower case letters, digits and special
sign.

Avoid passwords that are directly related to you, such as
the name of family members or a pet.

Your personal rights - our mission





 
 
 
 
 

Press release from January 31, 2020 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 


 









Avoid passwords that consist of characters that are on the
keyboard next to each other (e.g. "123456" or
"QWERTZ").

Avoid (pass)words that are in the dictionary or in another
dictionary are listed.

Do not use the same password for different ones
Services.

Change default passwords.

Reduce the security of the password you choose
not with a simple answer to a security question that
Allows password reset. Do not use any in-
information that is easy to guess or otherwise research
are, such as names of family members.

Use the two-
factor authentication. This usually means that next to the
Password is another independent factor required to login.
This can be a further authentication via an SMS
transmitted PIN or possession of an object such as a security
trade health tokens.

If you have additional accounts for credential reset
use, protect them with strong passwords as well.

Delete accounts and all data on Internet services that you
no longer need.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

