
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/15/2020
                                Discussion forum on Freedom of Information Day on September 28, 2020: environmental information for everyone On Freedom of Information Day on Monday, September 28, 2020, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI) is organizing a discussion forum on the obligation to publish environmental information. The following questions will be addressed, among others: What must be published from January 1, 2021? What opportunities are there for the media? The country's transparency platform will be fully available from January 1, 2021. Bodies subject to transparency, such as municipalities, will then have to publish a range of environmental information. The discussion event, which will be held via video conference on Monday, September 28, 2020 from 4 p.m., will focus on the following questions, among others: Does digital change create new opportunities to improve transparency and openness in administration? How can access to environmental information advance environmental protection? What challenges do public authorities face: Are changes to IT systems and new organizational processes necessary? What new opportunities are opening up with the further provision of information for the media? The discussion will be moderated by the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann. Among others taking part are: Dr. Thomas Griese, State Secretary in the Ministry for the Environment, Energy, Food and Forestry of the State of Rhineland-Palatinate, Sabine Yacoub (President of the BUND Rhineland-Palatinate), Mathilda Kähler (representative of the "Fridays for Future Germany" movement) and Dr. Felix Zimmermann (ZDF legal department). If you are interested in following the discussion or want to ask questions, please register here. You will then receive the access data before the event.
                                return
                            



