1/18

 File No.: EXP202204455

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated April 8, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the party
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

1. Installation of security cameras, with notice to workers in the middle of
2021, omitting that said cameras record audio and the establishment's sink, the
which has no door

Indicates that one of the cameras, installed in the year 2020, is located above the
counter, focusing on the entrance, and records the conversations of customers and
Workers. The other camera, installed in January 2021, is located behind the
counter panel, focusing on the warehouse and access to the bathroom (provides images
about the location of the cameras).

You understand that the sound recording is disproportionate and not justified by the
developed activity.

2. The workers were not informed about the use of the system of
video surveillance for labor control or for the purpose of preserving the safety of
people and goods, nor that said system incorporated audio recording.

In addition, the warning sign is not easily visible, not even for the workers
nor for the public, since it is almost covered by the air conditioning unit and
located on one side of the establishment (it is not possible to see it when entering the premises, so
that is not located in a visible place for the clients of the establishment); does not inform
about the treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the
rights recognized to the interested parties; and refers to the previous regulations
(Provide a photograph accrediting these circumstances).

3. Workers have access to the recordings made by security cameras.
video surveillance, since some are sent to the company's mobile phone, which
is permanently in the establishment available to all
workers, breaching the regulations on the conservation of recordings.

The complainant also points out that the person in charge sent links to the
recordings through the company's WhatsApp group, allowing all

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

workers access them.

Provide a video accrediting the sending through WhatsApp of a link to a
recording from the video surveillance system object of the claim. The
recording in question includes sound (the voices of the people are heard
captured in said recording, workers and clients).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 04/20/2022 as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

On 19/25/2022, in its response to the transfer of the claim, the party
Claimant reports the following:

. The system has two cameras that are inside the premises and only record
the same. It is stated that the images are stored for 30 days in a
camera and 3 hours in another.

It provides images of the field of vision of the cameras, in which it is not appreciated that
capture the restroom indicated in the claim.

. Attach photographs of the informative poster displayed in the establishment.

It is verified that it is located in the same place indicated in the
claim, although its content has been modified to be consistent with the
data protection regulations. It is verified that instead of informing about the
identity of the person in charge refers to the commercial name of the establishment;
informs about the exercise of rights and cites a regulation that is not in force.

. It is indicated that the cameras do not record sound and to accredit it, a
screenshot of the mobile application that manages the system in which the
handwritten indication "disconnected" in the option corresponding to the sound, which
can be reactivated at any time quickly and easily, just by
scroll tab.

. A document is provided with the signature of the complaining party, to justify that it has
informed the workers of the policy for the use of the devices made available
available to the workers by the employer, together with another letter of
confidentiality that the workers also sign, indicating that the
worker authorizes the display of his image in the internal security circuits
installed by the company.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

In none of these writings is it expressly stated that one of the purposes of the
video surveillance system of the establishment is the labor control of the
workers.

. Finally, it is stated that the system is only accessed by the owner, who is responsible for the
treatment through your mobile with username and password.

On the other hand, it does not provide any information in relation to the work chat and the
referral to it of videos recorded by the security system, such as the one
contributes with the claim, despite having been required to do so in the application for
information that was sent to you.

THIRD: On June 16, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 08/05/2022, by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection
information related to the claimed party is accessed in “Axesor” (“Informe
monitors"). (…).

FIFTH: On 08/10/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Datos agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, in accordance with the
provided in articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of the
Articles 13 and 6 of the GDPR, typified in articles 83.5.b) and 83.5.a) of the same
Regulation, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in articles
72.1.h) and 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, respectively.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanction that could correspond,
attention to the existing evidence at the time of opening and without prejudice to the
resulting from the instruction, would amount to a total of 3,000 euros (three thousand euros): 1,000
euros (one thousand euros) for the alleged violation of article 13 of the GDPR and 2,000 euros
(two thousand euros) for the alleged violation of article 6 of the GDPR.

Likewise, it was warned that the imputed infractions, if confirmed, may
entail the imposition of measures, according to the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR.

SIXTH: On 08/30/2022, he entered this Agency in writing from the party
claimant by means of which he communicates that he withdraws from the claim that he has given
venue for performances.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established regulations
in the LPACAP, a written statement was received from the claimed party, in which
requests the file of the procedure. In relation to the facts that have determined
the opening of this disciplinary proceeding, the defendant formulates the
following manifestations:

. The installed video surveillance system has two cameras that do not record
sound.

. With his response to the transfer process, he attached photographs of the
signs warning about the existence of video surveillance and notification

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

personalized and with acknowledgment of receipt that was made in this regard to the workers.

With its allegations, the claimed party does not provide any document, and requests that
An on-site inspection is carried out to verify the legality of the system.

EIGHTH: On 09/09/2022, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense
following:

1. That the claimed party be penalized for a breach of article 13 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5.b) of the same Regulation, and classified as very serious
effects of prescription in article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 1,000
euros (thousand euros).

2. That the claimed party be penalized for a breach of article 6 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, and classified as very serious for the purposes of
prescription in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 2,000 euros (two
a thousand euros).

3. That the claimed party be imposed, within the term to be determined, the adoption of
the necessary measures to adapt their actions to the regulations for the protection of
personal data, with the scope expressed in the Fundamentals of Law of the
resolution proposal.

NINTH: The proposed resolution outlined in the Eighth Antecedent was
notified to the claimed party. In said notification, he was granted a term to
make allegations against the proposed resolution, which passed without
this Agency has received any writing.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1. The claimed party is responsible for the video surveillance system installed in the
establishment open to the public in which it develops its economic activity.

2. In relation to the video surveillance system outlined in the Proven Fact
First, the claimed party placed an informative sign on the side of the
establishment, in its upper part, partially covered by an air apparatus
conditioned. Said poster did not inform about the treatment, the identity of the
responsible and the possibility of exercising the rights recognized to the interested parties; and
referred to the previous regulations (provide a photograph accrediting these
circumstances).

Said sign was replaced by another once the claim by the party was known.
claimed. This new poster, which is located in the same place indicated in
the previous paragraph, instead of informing about the identity of the person in charge makes

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

reference to the commercial name of the establishment; reports on the exercise of
rights and cites a regulation that is not in force.

3. There is a document in the proceedings with the label "Commitment to
confidentiality of employees", arranged by the claimed party so that they are
signed by their employees. In this document, in relation to the system of
video surveillance installed in the establishment, only collects the authorization of the
worker for the visualization of his image in the internal security circuits
installed by the company.

4. The video surveillance system described in the First Proven Fact is managed through
through an application installed on the mobile of the claimed party. This application
allows you to activate or deactivate the option corresponding to the capture and recording of
sound.

5. A video from the video recording system is incorporated into the proceedings.
video surveillance object of the claim that includes sound (the voices of
the people captured in said recording, workers and clients).

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures”.

II

In advance, it should be noted that article 63.1 of the LPACAP determines that
"Procedures of a sanctioning nature will always be initiated ex officio by
agreement of the competent body", establishing in article 68 of the LOPDGDD
which corresponds to the "Presidency of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
when appropriate, issue an agreement to start the procedure for the exercise of the
sanctioning power”. Thus, for the claiming party to withdraw their claim is
irrelevant and does not imply the filing or completion of the disciplinary procedure
initiated, since it begins and is processed in all its phases ex officio.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

The image and voice are personal data

II

The physical image and voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, are a
Personal data and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In the article
4.2 of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

The images and voice captured by a system of cameras or video cameras are data
of a personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the regulations of
Data Protection.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image and voice
of the complaining party or of other persons serving as employees of the
company of the claimed party, and of the natural persons who come as clients to the
establishment of said company, open to the public) carried out through the
The denounced video surveillance system is in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

IV.

Infringement

Article 12.1 of the GDPR indicates that whoever carries out data processing
personal, such as the capture of images through a system of
video surveillance, must provide the interested parties with the information indicated in the
Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR.

In order that the duty of information provided for in article 12 of the GDPR is
complies in a concise and understandable manner for the affected party, the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD foresees in relation to video surveillance a system of "information by
layers".

In this sense, the first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the
treatment (video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the
rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more
information on the processing of personal data.

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

It is not necessary to specify the precise location of the video surveillance equipment.

This duty of information will be understood fulfilled by placing a
Information device in a sufficiently visible place, and at least, at the entrances
to monitored areas, whether interior or exterior. In case the space
video surveillance has several accesses must have said hallmark of
video surveillance area in each of them.

This information must be provided in advance -recital 39 of the GDPR-. He

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

The aim is to make the context of surveillance clear.

On the other hand, article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow
consider the processing of personal data lawful.

The permanent implantation of a system of video cameras for reasons of
security has a legitimate basis in the LOPDGDD, the explanatory statement of which indicates:

“Together with these assumptions, others are included, such as video surveillance… in which the legality of the
treatment comes from the existence of a public interest, in the terms established in the
Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
 
Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

This same article 22, in its section 8, provides that "The treatment by the
Employer data obtained through camera or video camera systems will be
submits to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law”.

On the legitimacy for the implementation of video surveillance systems in the field
labor, Royal Legislative Decree 1/1995, of 03/24, is taken into account, which approves
the revised text of the Workers' Statute Law (LET), whose article 20.3
notes:

"3. The employer may adopt the measures he deems most appropriate for surveillance and control
to verify compliance by the worker with his labor obligations and duties,
keeping in their adoption and application due consideration to their dignity and taking into account
account, where appropriate, the real capacity of workers with disabilities.

The permitted surveillance and control measures include the installation of
security cameras, although these systems should always respond at first
of proportionality, that is, the use of video cameras must be proportional to the purpose
pursued, this is to guarantee the security and the fulfillment of the obligations and
job duties.

Article 89 of the LOPDPGDD, referring specifically to the "right to privacy
against the use of video surveillance and sound recording devices in the place
work" and the processing of personal data obtained with camera systems or
video cameras for the exercise of control functions of the workers, allows
that employers can process the images obtained through security systems
cameras or camcorders for the exercise of the functions of control of the
workers or public employees provided for, respectively, in article 20.3
of the Workers' Statute and in the civil service legislation, provided that
These functions are exercised within its legal framework and with the limits inherent to the
same.

In relation to sound recording, the aforementioned article 89 of the LOPDGDD
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

sets the following:

"2. In no case will the installation of sound recording systems or
video surveillance in places intended for the rest or recreation of workers or
public employees, such as locker rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like.
3. The use of systems similar to those referred to in the previous sections for the
sound recording in the workplace will be allowed only when relevant
risks to the safety of facilities, goods and people derived from the activity
that it takes place in the workplace and always respecting the principle of proportionality,
the minimum intervention and the guarantees provided for in the previous sections. the deletion
of the sounds preserved by these recording systems will be made according to the
provided in section 3 of article 22 of this law”.

On the other hand, it is interesting to note that, according to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the
recording conversations between workers or between them and customers is not justified
for the verification of compliance by the worker with his obligations or duties.
In a Judgment dated 04/10/2000 (2000/98), issued in rec. num. 4015/1996, it
declares the following:

In this sense, it must be taken into account that the managerial power of the employer,
essential for the smooth running of the productive organization and expressly recognized
in the art. 20 LET, attributes to the employer, among other powers, that of adopting the measures that
deems more appropriate surveillance and control to verify the worker's compliance with
their labor obligations (art. 20.3 LET). But this faculty must be produced in any case,
As is logical, within due respect for the dignity of the worker, as we expressly
It is reminded by the labor regulations (arts. 4.2.e and 20.3 LET)...

... it should be remembered that the jurisprudence of this Court has repeatedly insisted on the
full effectiveness of the fundamental rights of the worker in the framework of the relationship
labor, since this cannot imply in any way the deprivation of such rights for
those who serve in productive organizations... Consequently, and as
This Court has also affirmed, the exercise of such rights only admits
limitations or sacrifices to the extent that it develops within an organization
which reflects other constitutionally recognized rights in arts. 38 and 33 CE and that
It imposes, according to the assumptions, the necessary adaptability for the exercise of all of them...

For this reason, the premise from which the Judgment under appeal starts, consisting of
affirm that the workplace is not by definition a space in which the
workers' right to privacy, in such a way that the conversations that
maintain workers with each other and with customers in the performance of their work activity
They are not covered by art. 18.1 EC and there is no reason why the company cannot
know the content of those, since the aforementioned right is exercised in the field of
private sphere of the worker, that in the workplace it must be understood limited to the
places of rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets or the like, but not to those
places where work is carried out...

…Such a statement is rejectable, since it cannot be ruled out that also in those
places of the company where the work activity is carried out may produce
illegitimate interference by the employer in the right to privacy of the
workers, such as the recording of conversations between a worker and a
client, or between the workers themselves, in which issues unrelated to the relationship are addressed
that are integrated into what we have called the sphere of development of the
individual (SSTC 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 4 and 197/1991, of October 17, FJ 3, by
all). In short, it will be necessary to attend not only to the place in the workplace where they are installed
by the company audiovisual control systems, but also to other elements of judgment (if
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

the installation is done or not indiscriminately and massively, if the systems are visible or have
been surreptitiously installed, the real purpose pursued with the installation of such
systems, if there are security reasons, by the type of activity that takes place in the
workplace in question, which justifies the implementation of such means of control, etc.)
to elucidate in each specific case whether these means of surveillance and control respect the right
to the privacy of workers. Certainly, the installation of such means in places of
rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like is, a fortiori, harmful
in any case, the right to privacy of workers, without further consideration, for
obvious reasons... But this does not mean that this injury cannot occur in those places
where the work activity is carried out, if any of the circumstances set out that
allows classifying business action as an illegitimate intrusion into the right to privacy
from the workers. It will be necessary, then, to attend to the concurrent circumstances in the supposed
concrete to determine whether or not there is a violation of art. 18.1 EC.

…its limitation [of the fundamental rights of the worker] by the powers
business can only derive well from the fact that the very nature of work
contracted involves the restriction of the right (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, and 106/1996, FJ 4), either
an accredited business need or interest, without its mere invocation being sufficient to
sacrifice the fundamental right of the worker (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, 6/1995, FJ 3 and 136/1996,
FJ 7)…

These limitations or modulations must be the indispensable and strictly
necessary to satisfy a business interest deserving of guardianship and protection, in a manner
that, if there are other possibilities of satisfying said interest that are less aggressive and affect the
right in question, it will be necessary to use the latter and not those more aggressive and
affective. It is, ultimately, the application of the principle of proportionality...

The question to be resolved is, therefore, whether the installation of microphones that allow the recording of
conversations of workers and customers in certain areas... fits in the assumption
that occupies us with the essential requirements of respect for the right to privacy. To the
In this regard, we must begin by pointing out that it is indisputable that the installation of devices
for capturing and recording sound in two specific areas... it is not without utility for the
business organization, especially if one takes into account that these are two areas in which
economic transactions of some importance take place. Now, the mere utility
or convenience for the company does not simply legitimize the installation of hearing aids and
recording, given that the company already had other security systems than the
Hearing system is intended to complement…

In short, the implementation of the listening and recording system has not been in this case
in accordance with the principles of proportionality and minimum intervention that govern modulation
of fundamental rights due to the requirements of the interest of the organization
business, since the purpose pursued (to provide extra security, especially in the face of
eventual customer claims) is disproportionate to the sacrifice that
implies the right to privacy of workers (and even customers...). This system
allows you to capture private comments, both from customers and workers...,
comments completely unrelated to business interest and therefore irrelevant from the
perspective of control of labor obligations, being able, however, to have
negative consequences for workers who, in any case, will feel constrained
to make any type of personal comment given the conviction that they are going to be
heard and recorded by the company. It is, in short, an illegitimate interference in the
right to privacy enshrined in art. 18.1 CE, since there is no definitive argument that
authorize the company to listen and record the private conversations that the workers…
keep with each other or with customers.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

V

10/18

Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a “layered information” system.

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the
processing of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be provided in advance.

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

4.- Images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the treatment of
images in public places, unless there is government authorization, only
It can be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Images cannot be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties without the
consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them
find.

It is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.

6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:

. the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the GDPR
and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
. the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
. the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

SAW

administrative infraction

It is not disputed in this case the fact that the claimed party is the owner and
responsible for the reported video surveillance system and, therefore, the person responsible for
the data processing involved in the use of said system.

In relation to said system, in this case the existence of a cartel
informative that is not located in a sufficiently visible place and does not include all the
first layer information that must be offered to the interested parties, regarding the
identity of the person in charge, the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the treatment of
personal data, in addition to citing a regulation that is not in force.

It is considered that these facts violate the provisions of article 13 of the GDPR, for
which supposes the commission of an infraction typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:
(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their personal data
in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this
Organic Law".

In addition, the claim is based on the alleged illegality of the video surveillance system
installed by the claimed party in the premises where it carries out its business activity,
in relation to sound recording, which has been duly accredited by the
complaining party with the contribution of a video captured by said system in which
recorded the conversations of workers and customers who were
in the establishment of the person in charge.

There is no record in the proceedings that the person in charge has informed clients and
workers on the collection of their personal data related to the voice of the
interested.

Nor does the claimed party take into account the limits set forth in article 20.3 of
the Workers' Statute Law (LET); what is established in article 89.3 of the
LOPDGDD, which admits the recording of sounds only when they are
relevant risks and respecting the principles of proportionality and intervention
minimal; nor the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, already expressed, according to which the
recording conversations between workers or between them and customers is not justified
for the verification of compliance by the worker with his obligations or duties.

Consequently, it is understood that the capture of the voice of both the workers
as clients of the claimed party for the intended video surveillance function
It is not motivated nor does it have legal protection. It is taken into account that the voice recording
It represents a further intrusion into privacy.

It is considered that the claimed party carried out data processing without having access to
legitimate basis, violating the provisions of article 6 of the GDPR, which implies the
commission of an offense classified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which provides
following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the legal conditions of the
treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

In relation to the facts constituting these infractions, the claimed party, in
his pleadings at the opening of the proceeding, he has limited himself to denying that
the system captures sounds, despite the verified evidence, such as the option
enabled in the application that manages said system, installed on the device
mobile phone of the claimed party, which allows you to activate or deactivate the capture and recording
of sounds, as well as the video provided by the complaining party, in which the
the voices of workers and customers.

The same can be said regarding the breach of the duty to inform. The part
The defendant reiterates that it has an information poster located inside the
establishment, but does not make any statement in relation to its inadequate
location and with the defects appreciated in the information it contains.

Regarding the information offered to the workers, it again alleges that it
notified the existence of the video surveillance system, but does not accompany any
document other than the one provided with your response to the transfer process of the
claim, in which the workers are not informed about the sound capture.
As stated in the Third Proven Fact, the document referred to by the party
claimed, which is labeled “Employee Confidentiality Commitment,”
in relation to the video surveillance system installed in the establishment,
It only collects the authorization of the worker to display his image in
internal security circuits installed by the company.

  

VII

Sanction

Article 58.2 of the GDPR establishes:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated to
continuation:
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of processing that the processing operations be
conform to the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified period;
(...)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article
58.2.d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

With regard to infringements of articles 13 and 6 of the GDPR, it is considered that the
The sanction that corresponds to impose is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which states the following:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case.
individually, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
in each individual case due account shall be taken of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number of
affected stakeholders and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
Controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the same
matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
the offence”.

For its part, article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the offender's activity with data processing
personal.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of the
infringement.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the commission of the infraction,
that cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
disputes between those and any interested party”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infractions
committed, allows setting the value of the fine at 1,000 euros (one thousand euros) for the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

infringement of article 13 of the GDPR and 2,000 euros (two thousand euros) for the infringement
of article 6 of the same Regulation.

VIII

Measures

Considering the infringements declared, it is appropriate to impose the person responsible (the party
claimed) the adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its performance to the
regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article
58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each control authority may “order the
controller or processor that the processing operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”.

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows its organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD.

However, in this case, regardless of the foregoing, it is agreed to require the
responsible so that, within the term indicated in the operative part, it proves that
proceeded to suppress the capture of sounds by the object video surveillance system
of the actions, as well as compliance with the duty to inform, facilitating the
workers the information required by the GDPR and completing the information that is
offered through the informative poster installed in the establishment, whose location
it should be varied so that it is easily visible.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 13 of the
GDPR, typified in Article 83.5.b) of the GDPR, and classified as very serious to
effects of prescription in article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 1,000
euros (thousand euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 6 of the
GDPR, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, and classified as very serious to
effects of prescription in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 2,000

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

euros (two thousand euros).

THIRD: REQUIRE B.B.B. so that, within a month from the
notification of this resolution, adapt its action to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Basis of
Right VIII of this resolution, and justify before this Spanish Protection Agency
of Data the attention of this requirement.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document, in the restricted account no. ES00 0000 0000
0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

