1/10

 File No.: EXP202101350

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 07/07/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against the STATE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE with NIF Q2819009H (in
forward the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:
that he has received a letter from the one claimed in which they appear printed in the
about (visible from the outside, therefore) personal data that should not be
expose yourself
And it provides a photograph of one of the sides of the envelope of the letter received. the letterhead
reference to the claimed party and includes the name, surname and address of the party
claimant. Likewise, it includes the following data: “Exp.: ***EXP.1”, “N.I.F./N.I.E.:
***NIF.1”

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 08/24/2021 said claim was transferred to the respondent
in accordance with the provisions of the LPACAP, to proceed with its analysis and
inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out to
comply with the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations. Not included or provided
Respondent's response.

THIRD: On 10/28/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
issue, having knowledge of the following extremes:
Dated 02/03/2022, it has a written entry from the claimed party indicating that it does not
There is no notification from the AEPD in relation to the facts investigated.
Causes of the incident and reaction measures
The inspection of services of the claimed party shows the following in relation to the
facts object of the claim that: “In the postal communications addressed by the
SEPE to applicants and/or beneficiaries of unemployment benefits
only the data necessary for delivery by the postal operator are visible,
that is, the name and surnames and the postal address of the interested party. In the month of June
In 2021, a change was made to the agency's communications templates.
As a result of this change, an incident occurred that caused the
moved the data, so a batch of erroneous communications was issued.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

The incident was detected and corrected as quickly as possible, without
I have been aware of other complaints in this regard.”

FIFTH: On 04/26/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD and considering that the
sanction that could correspond would be a WARNING. The reception consists
by the defendant of the agreement to initiate the file.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 07/07/2021 there is an entry in the AEPD written by the claimant
stating that he has received a letter from the respondent appearing printed
on the envelope (visible from the outside) personal data that should not be
revealed.

SECOND. The claimant provides a photograph of one of the sides of the letter envelope
received; include the reference letterhead of the respondent; name, surname and
claimant's address. It also incorporates the following data: “Exp.: ***EXP.1”,
“N.I.F./N.I.E.: ***NIF.1”.

THIRD. The respondent in writing dated 02/03/2022 has stated that “…In the month
June 2021, a change was made to the communications templates of the
organism. As a result of this change, an incident occurred that
caused the data to shift, so a batch of
wrong communications.
The incident was detected and corrected as quickly as possible, without
had evidence of other complaints in this regard”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The
procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they are not
contradict, in the alternative, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures.”

The claimed facts materialize in the sending by the claimed of a
letter whose envelope contains personal data that could violate the
regulations on the protection of personal data.

II

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the treatment

of personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.
(…)

III

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to the treatment, the
allow access to the personal data of the claimant, such as
consequence of the remission by the respondent of a letter whose envelope contains the
themselves.

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of
prevent access to data not consented to by the owners of the data.
themselves.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”

Second, article 32 of the RGPD “Security of treatment”,

v

establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

SAW

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,

11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.

(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

The facts revealed could imply the violation of the
technical and organizational measures violating the confidentiality of the data and
allowing access to them included in the envelope of the letter sent by the
Employment Service.

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

7th

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security in your system allowing access to personal data of the claimant,
with the violation of technical and organizational measures.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the
treatment will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk
that the treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

application, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and
proportionate to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the measures
technical and organizational information must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and
encryption, the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resiliency, the ability to restore availability and access to data after a
incident, verification process (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of the measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In the present case, as evidenced by the facts and within the framework of the
investigation file the AEPD transferred the claimed on 08/24/2021 the
claim submitted for analysis requesting the provision of information
related to the incident claimed, without sending a response in this regard.

However, on 01/19/2022 a new request for information was sent and the
02/03/2022 sent a response indicating that there was no record of any notification of the
AEPD and that the claimed incident was due to the fact that “In the month of June 2021,
made a change to the agency's communications templates. What
As a result of this change, an incident occurred that caused the
moved the data, so a batch of erroneous communications was issued.”

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the claimant, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing
access to them in the event of a physical or technical incident.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be
allegedly responsible for the infringement of the RGPD: the violation of article 32,
infraction typified in its article 83.4.a).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, also the LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime
applicable to certain categories of controllers or processors,
sets the following:

viii

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

According to the available evidence, the conduct of the
claimed constitutes the infringement of the provisions of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the
GDPR.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the sanction of
warning in relation to the processing of personal data that is not
match your forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the RGPD contemplates that
“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

In this same sense, article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2 d) indicates
that each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
has breached the data protection regulations, articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, by
enable access to the personal data of the claimant, by sending the
claimed a letter in whose envelope the same appear, violating the measures
technical and organizational.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

However, in its response to this directive center on 02/03/2022 the
claimed has indicated having corrected the incidence produced stating “.. In the
month of June 2021 a change was made in the communication templates
of the organism. As a result of this change, an incident occurred that
caused the data to shift, so a batch of
wrong communications.

The incident was detected and corrected as quickly as possible, without

has been aware of other complaints in this regard.

  Therefore, it is considered that the response has been reasonable, having

corrected the incidence and not proceeding to urge the adoption of additional measures.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the PUBLIC SERVICE OF STATE EMPLOYMENT, with NIF
Q2819009H, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: IMPOSE the PUBLIC SERVICE OF STATE EMPLOYMENT, with NIF
Q2819009H, for an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
STATE.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

