 

 
Police Netherlands
to the attention of the Chief of Police, Mr. H.P. from Essen
PO Box 17107
2502 CC THE HAGUE

 

 

Date
November 17, 2022
 
 

Our reference
z2021-17798
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 

 
Subject
mobile camera cars Rotterdam - decision to impose a fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Hoge Nieuwstraat 8, 2514 EL The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Dear Mr van Essen,
 
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (hereinafter: AP) has decided to impose an administrative fine on the Chief of Police
of € 50,000 for violation of Article 4c, first paragraph, of the Police Data Act (hereinafter:
Wpg). This is because the chief of police failed to inform prior to the intended processing of
police data – namely making camera images using two so-called mobile cameras
cars in Rotterdam – carry out a data protection impact assessment while processing
of police data was likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.

This decision explains the administrative fine. To this end, (1) the
reason and course of the proceedings, (2) the established facts, (3) the violation and (4) the amount of the
fine. Finally (under 5) the operative part and the legal remedies clause follow.

 

 

Public version

 



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

1

2

3

4

 
1 Reason and course of the process
 
In the spring of 2020, the Netherlands was confronted with the COVID-19 pandemic. The cabinet announced
then introduced measures to prevent the spread of the virus. These measures were applied locally
level laid down in emergency regulations. An emergency ordinance was also introduced in the municipality of Rotterdam
corona measures in force (hereinafter: “emergency regulation”)1. These measures included, among others
the ban on gatherings and the obligation for people to keep a distance of 1.5 meters (in public space).
hold. To monitor and enforce compliance with the corona measures are in the municipality
Rotterdam deployed two cars from April 10, 2020 with a camera mounted on the roof, also known as
mobile camera cars (hereinafter referred to as: “MCAs”).

Following reports in the media, the AP has contacted the municipality of Rotterdam.
In the period from 10 April 2020 to 17 April 2020, it turned out that two MCAs had indeed been deployed,
but this deployment was discontinued after a week at the request of the police.2 When the AP
received signals that the MCAs were deployed again from April 26, 2020, the AP decided to launch a
start research. The AP investigated, among other things, whether the chief of police acted in violation
with the obligation to carry out a data protection impact assessment in a timely manner (hereinafter also:
“GEB”) as referred to in Article 4c of the Wpg. Since the AP has no authority to commit violations
of Article 3 of the Wpg with a fine, the AP does not comment on the
answer to the question whether the Chief of Police acted in accordance with Article 3 of the Wpg.
For this reason, this also means that the AP does not comment on the answer to the question whether in this decision
Article 3 of the Police Act 2012 (hereinafter: Police Act) can serve as a basis for the deployment of the MCAs.

The investigation has led to the AP's Customer Contact and Controlling Investigation Department op
has adopted a report of findings on 26 November 2021 (hereinafter: investigation report). In the
Insofar as relevant here, the investigation report concluded that the Chief of Police was obliged to provide a
GEB before processing the camera images using the MCAs and that
he failed to do so by only carrying out a GEB during the processing, with which the chief of police in
has acted contrary to Article 4c of the Wpg.

In a letter dated 16 December 2021, the AP sent the Chief of Police an intention to enforce.
On 21 January 2022, the Chief of Police submitted a written opinion on this intention and the
research report on which it is based. An opinion hearing will be held on 22 February 2022
took place during which the Chief of Police further explained his written opinion orally.

 

 

                                                                        
1 Gemeenteblad 2020, 85971. Officially announced on March 30, 2020: https://www.rijnmondveilig.nl/lichameijke-
emergency/emergency-regulation-covid-19-30-march-2020/
2 The police appeared not to have been formally involved in the decision to deploy the MCAs.

Public version
 

 

2/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
2 Factual findings

5

6

7

8

9

10

The following is a summary of the relevant facts established in the investigation report. The
The Chief of Police has not contradicted the facts laid down in the investigation report.

2.1 The use of MCAs

In May 2020, the Eurovision Song Contest would have taken place in Rotterdam. In the context of the
preparations for the safety measures surrounding this event, the desire has arisen to implement MCAs
to make. Subsequently, the Supervision and Enforcement Department of City Management of the municipality of Rotterdam
for the period 1 April to 1 June 2020, the rental of two MCAs has been realized. Day after the municipality
Rotterdam had signed the rental offer became the Eurovision Song Contest because of the COVID-19
pandemic cancelled.
 
Subsequently, a plan was devised to deploy the two leased MCAs in the context of enforcement
of the corona measures. In a memo of April 1, 2020, the mayor of the municipality of Rotterdam
notified in writing by the Safety Directorate of the intention to deploy the MCAs.
The memo in question explains that the corona measures require a lot of effort from enforcers and
police would ask when capacity was scarce. The MCAs could support these parties
in the performance of their duties. In addition, the memo explains that the authority to mobile
using camera surveillance to maintain public order in the event of a (threatened) disruption of the
public order is based on Article 3 of the Police Act and that the MCAs are based on this basis and for this
purpose would be deployed temporarily, namely as long as the emergency ordinance was applicable in the
Safety region Rotterdam-Rijnmond.

 

As of April 10, 2020, the two MCAs have actually been deployed. At the request of the police, the MCAs have run out
However, it was halted on April 17, 2020, because its deployment had taken place without the involvement of the
Police.

 

Subsequently, the police and the municipality of Rotterdam jointly drew up a deployment framework for the
deployment of the MCAs. The deployment box contains a description of the purpose for which the MCAs were created
used, the legal framework and the practical procedure that had to be followed.

 

According to the deployment framework, the deployment of the MCAs served a multiple purpose. The MCAs became
used to obtain an up-to-date picture of the situation on site and, on that basis, to deploy
capacity of special investigating officers and police officers.
In addition, the MCAs would have a preventive effect and the presence of
camera surveillance can have a de-escalating effect.3
                                                                        
3 According to the deployment framework, violent incidents in the enforcement of the rules from the emergency ordinance were one of the reasons
for deployment of the two MCAs.

Public version
 

 

3/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 

 

11

12

13

14

15

It also follows from the deployment framework that the MCAs are deployed as flexible camera surveillance on the basis of
Article 3 of the Police Act, that responsibility for deploying the two MCAs lay with the police
and that the deployment of the MCAs would in any event last as long as the emergency ordinance was in effect.

 

In addition, it follows from the deployment framework that from 26 April 2020 the two MCAs were controlled by a
employee of Supervision and Enforcement of the municipality of Rotterdam with a boa certification. The
driver was given a list of pre-designated areas and locations at the start of the shift.4 The
camera could only be turned on at the designated location if there was group formation or
any other observable violation of the emergency ordinance. The camera was allowed during the ride
location A to location B cannot be turned on. In exceptional cases, the MCAs were allowed to use camera images
continue to deploy units due to the de-escalating effect.

 

On April 25, 2020, the members of the Rotterdam triangle5 approved the deployment framework, subject to the condition
that some adjustments were made. The two MCAs are the following day, so from
26 April 2020, deployed again between 12:00 and 23:00.6 The police evaluation, among other things, shows
that the MCAs have driven daily up to and including 31 May 2020.
 
2.2 Collecting, receiving, viewing and forwarding camera images

The rental quote from the MCAs shows that both cars were equipped with a so-called 'Rooftop Unit'
with which camera images could be made by means of a so-called 'Panorama Video
Subsystem". It follows from the system specifications that there was HD megapixel image format and that the
panoramic cameras contain 2 megapixel color sensors and a good image with sufficient detail
could give. It also follows from the rental offer that each of the MCAs could take camera images from one to
ten meters around the vehicle. This is clear from the detailed explanation of the 'Panorama Video Subsystem'
camera images could be taken on both sides of the vehicle with a large opening angle.
According to the rental offer, the MCAs could drive sharply at a speed of fifty kilometers per hour
take camera pictures.
 
It follows from the camera images checked by AP supervisors that they show a lot of detail and
the cameras have also made sharp camera images while driving. The cameras were used from four
angles images made: left front, right front, left rear and right rear. This together gives a 360
degree overall picture of the situation around the vehicle. From the advanced and awaited camera footage
It follows that CCTV footage was taken far beyond the vehicle. Let the camera images park,

                                                                        
4 These areas and locations were determined by the Large-Scale and Special Operations Corona Staff. The Chief Duty Officer
of the police, with the intervention of the Operations Center of the police, could provide additional information.
5 The triangle of a certain area is the consultative body between the mayor, the (chief) public prosecutor and the chief of police or
police team chief of the team that includes the municipality in question – in this case the municipality of Rotterdam.
6 City Management Supervision, Police and Security Directorate, Evaluation Pilot deployment mobile camera car dated 15 July 2020, p. 5 (file item 43).

Public version
 

 

4/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
see public roads, residential areas, shopping areas, beaches, boulevards and parking lots, where
adults and children are recognizable.
 

16 An image processing system, the so-called ScanGenius, was mounted on each of the two MCAs
SMART system. The research report established that as of April 26, 2020 – the start date of the
deployment of MCAs – the camera images taken by the two MCAs were made live
sent to the so-called 'Control Room Enforcement': the central control room of the Enforcement Service
of the municipality of Rotterdam, which is located at Kleinpolderplein7.

17

18

19

20

 

These camera images received in the Enforcement control room were then sent via a data line
forwarded to the so-called 'camera surveillance viewing room', which is located at the same location. The
camera images came in here in the program 'Genetec' and then with the program
'Coppweb' watched live by authorized operators of the municipality of Rotterdam under supervision
from the police.8

 

The camera images could - also with the help of the program 'Coppweb' - be further
forwarded to several other police departments.9 The investigation report established that
the camera images were actually forwarded to other police locations on a number of occasions.10
 
2.3 Keeping and destroying camera images

The camera images of the MCAs that did not contain any incidents were kept for seven days and
subsequently destroyed. In the event of incidents, the camera images were recorded at the viewing area in accordance with the Wpg
camera surveillance. The GEB adopted on May 26, 2020 recommends that the retention period for
reduce camera footage from the MCAs from seven days to zero without incident. In the
evaluation, this recommendation has been repeated and it has also been noted that the camera images are unnecessary
preserved.
 
It is also stated in the GEB that the stored camera images, in line with Article 14 of the Wpg, are via a
automated provisioned process were destroyed, including backups.
 

                                                                        
7 A 4G SIM card in the processing unit of the image processing system provided the link.
8 At the camera surveillance viewing centre, camera images are automatically included in the Genetec basic program. It
program Coppweb makes it possible to view live images from Genetec.
9 The supervisor could possibly decide to forward the camera images to the Police Operations Centre.
The camera images from the Operations Center could then be forwarded to the Police if necessary
Coordination Center at a police station or to the appropriate screens in the area of the District Approach Team
from the police.
10 The research report established that findings made using the MCAs – after an assessment by a supervisor
in the Kleinpolderplein viewing area and the Police Operations Center – several times led to the deployment of the police.

Public version
 

 

5/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
2.4 Carrying out a data protection impact assessment

21

22

23

The investigation report establishes that [CONFIDENTIAL] the police have a so-called pre-GEB
established on May 10, 2020. According to the pre-GEB, this document is intended to
assess whether performing a GEB is required. It was concluded in the pre-GEB that this is not the case
was necessary for the deployment of MCAs.
 
According to the pre-GEB, the use of MCAs would, among other things, not involve systematic and
large-scale monitoring in public space, because it concerned a limited number of locations where
camera images could be made and the camera would only turn on if required
was the cause. Also, according to the pre-GEB, there was no large-scale processing, because there
no camera images of large groups of people would be made. The size of the group
according to the pre-GEB depended on the extent to which the permitted number of persons was based
of the emergency ordinance was exceeded. Moreover, according to the pre-GEB there was no question of a
new technology, because cameras that have been installed pursuant to Article 151c of the Municipal Act
be able to record camera images from multiple angles.

 

This follows from the evaluation in response to questions from the Rotterdam city council and questions from the AP
the police and the municipality of Rotterdam have jointly drawn up a GEB. This follows from the GEB
the GEB has been finalized and approved on May 26, 2020 by [CONFIDENTIAL] the municipality
Rotterdam and the police [CONFIDENTIAL].
 
2.5 Conclusion

24

It follows from the foregoing that the MCAs have been deployed from 26 April 2020, and that the police and the municipality
Rotterdam have established a final GEB on May 26, 2020.

3 Assessment

3.1 Applicability of the Police Data Act and competence of the Dutch Data Protection Authority

3.1.1 Legal framework
 

25 The General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter: AVG) contains a general regulation for the

protection of personal data that is directly applicable in all EU Member States. For the
protection of personal data processed by the police and judiciary in the context of their
task performance, Directive 2016/680 has been established (hereinafter: the Directive11). Member States serve this

                                                                        
11 Directive 2016/680 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offenses or the
enforcement of sentences, and on the free movement of such data and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

Public version
 

 

6/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
Directive into their national law. The Netherlands has implemented the Directive in the
Wpg.12
 
It follows from Article 2, second paragraph, opening words and under d, of the GDPR that the GDPR does not apply to the
processing operations that fall within the scope of the Directive. The AVG and the Directive - as in the Netherlands
implemented in the Wpg – are therefore mutually exclusive.

 

Article 2(1) of the Wpg stipulates that the Wpg applies to the processing of
police data by a competent authority that are included in a file or are intended to be therein
to be included.

 

Article 1, preamble and under l of the Wpg defines a competent authority as any government agency
which is competent for the tasks referred to in part a, or any other body or entity that
is authorized to exercise public authority and public powers in view of the tasks referred to
in part a.

26

27

28

 

29 Pursuant to Article 1, preamble and under a, of the Wpg, police data is “any personal data that
is processed in the context of the performance of the police task, referred to in Articles 3 and 4 of the
Police Act 2012”.

30

31

32

 

Pursuant to Article 3 of the Police Act, the police are responsible for ensuring effective enforcement
of the rule of law and the provision of aid to those in need. The actual enforcement of
the legal order is divided into criminal enforcement of the legal order and enforcement of the public
order.13

 

It follows from Article 35 of the Wpg that the AP is authorized to supervise the processing of
personal data in accordance with the provisions of and pursuant to the Wpg.
 
3.1.2 Assessment
 
It follows from the established facts that the camera surveillance with the use of MCAs during the research period
has been carried out by a competent authority, namely the police. The deployment framework stipulates that the
police was responsible for deploying the MCAs. Furthermore, established facts show that the police
was in charge of looking out and possibly transmitting the camera images. In addition, the
MCAs are deployed for the purpose of maintaining public order, as part of the police task. As
has been explained above, the deployment framework stipulates that the deployment of the MCAs took place on the basis of

                                                                        
12 Stb. 2018, 401.
13 Articles 11 and 12 of the Police Act.

Public version
 

 

7/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

33

34

 
Article 3 of the Police Act, namely to make the corona measures more efficient and targeted
to enforce.
 
It also follows from the established facts that the camera images were recorded in a file. The
camera images entered the program 'Genetec' and could be viewed and possibly
forwarded using the program ‘Coppweb’. This is also evident from the established facts
CCTV footage was kept for seven days.
 
3.1.3 Conclusion
 
The AP concludes that camera surveillance with the use of MCAs in the research period has
taken place by a competent authority in the context of the performance of the police task and that the
camera images were recorded in a file. Insofar as this involved the processing of
police data (see section 3.2 of this decision), this processing falls within the scope of the Wpg and
the AP is authorized to supervise this and to take enforcement action.

3.2 Processing of police data and responsibility for processing

3.2.1 Legal framework
 

35 Pursuant to Article 1, preamble and under a, of the Wpg, police data is “any personal data that

36

37

38

is processed in the context of the performance of the police task, referred to in Articles 3 and 4 of the
Police Act 2012”.
 
Article 1, preamble and under b, of the Wpg defines personal data as “all information about a
identified or identifiable natural person”.

 

Article 1, preamble and under c of the Wpg stipulates that the processing of police data is
means “any operation or set of operations relating to police data or any set
of police data, whether or not performed by automated means, such as collecting, recording,
organize, structure, store, update or change, retrieve, consult, use, provide by
by means of forwarding, distributing or otherwise making available, bringing together, with each other
linking, blocking or destroying police data.

 

Article 1, preamble and under f, part 1, of the Wpg stipulates that the controller for the
processing of personal data by the police is the chief of police, as referred to in Article 27 of the Police Act
2012.
 
 

 

Public version
 

 

8/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 

39

40

41

3.2.2 Assessment
 
Personal data
It follows from the established facts that camera images were made with the MCAs on which
identified or identifiable natural persons were observable. From the technical
specifications show that camera images could be made with a 'Rooftop Unit'. In addition, it turns out
from the facts established in the investigation report, camera images were made with the two MCAs
on which people were recognizable in the image that it was also the intention to be able to do people
identify. For this reason, for example, no 'blurring' was applied.
 
Police data
The established facts show that these personal data are processed in the context of the implementation
of the police task. As explained above, maintaining public order is part of the
police task as referred to in Article 3 of the Police Act. The camera images that were taken with the MCAs
made were used for maintaining public order, more specifically for maintaining
the corona measures.
 
Processing
It has been explained above how the camera images were collected, sent, received, looked for,
forwarded, stored and destroyed. It has also been established that the two MCAs actually do
CCTV footage was collected during the deployment. The camera images were taken from the MCAs
forwarded directly to the Enforcement control room. The received camera images were
then forwarded via a data line to the camera surveillance viewing room and there under the direction of the
police watched. In addition, it was established that the camera images could be forwarded further
to other police locations, which also happened a few times. Furthermore, it is established that the
CCTV footage was retained and destroyed after seven days.
 
Controller

42 It has been explained above that the members of the Rotterdam triangle on 25 April 2020 under the condition of
some adjustments have been agreed to the deployment framework, after which the MCAs were approved on 26 April 2020 on the basis of
of Article 3 of the Police Act have been deployed under the responsibility of the police. From the legal framework follows
that the Chief of Police is designated by law as the controller for the processing of
police data with the police. The AP therefore concludes that the chief of police qualifies as
controller for processing camera images using the MCAs.
 
Chief of Police's views
The Chief of Police notes that the implementation of both the GEB and the pre-GEB is a joint process
from the municipality and the police. After all, decision-making about the use of the MCAs lay with the
Rotterdam triangle and around camera surveillance – both on the basis of Article 151c of the Municipalities Act and on
pursuant to Article 3 of the Police Act – the municipality had the impression that there was joint

43

Public version
 

 

9/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
controller. This was partly prompted by the text on the AP's website on that
moment.
 
Reply AP

44 The AP sees the administrative context within the Rotterdam triangle and the situation in which the police act as the

45

municipality of Rotterdam were located, as well as the circumstance that at the time of the proposed
processing at the municipality of Rotterdam there could be uncertainty about the question of who if
controller had to apply to the processing of camera images on the basis of Article
151c of the Municipal Act. In that context, it is conceivable that both the police and the municipality of Rotterdam should take action
felt responsible to strive for a jointly supported analysis of the possible
effects of the (intended) processing of the camera images on the protection of
personal data.
 
From, among other things, the memo of April 1, 2020 from the Directorate of Security to the mayor and the
However, the deployment framework established by the Rotterdam triangle on 25 April 2020 shows that the MCAs are flexible
camera surveillance were not deployed on the basis of Article 151c of the Municipalities Act, but on the basis of
Article 3 of the Police Act. The deployment framework also shows that responsibility for the deployment of the
MCAs lay with the police. The basis for and responsibility for the use of this resource existed
therefore no ambiguity at the municipality of Rotterdam. From the legal framework set out above
it follows conclusively that the police data was processed for the purpose of the chief of police
is the controller. The fact that the municipality may have doubts about this cannot change this. In
in any case, the text of the AP's website that reads at that time cannot provide a concrete reason
have formed for this purpose, since that text only related to Article 151c of the Municipalities Act
and not Article 3 of the Police Act.
 
3.2.3 Conclusion

 

46 Based on the foregoing, the AP concludes that the camera images contain information about

identified or identifiable natural persons and that this was the case
personal data within the meaning of Article 1, preamble and under b, of the Wpg. These personal data were
processed in the context of the performance of the police task and therefore constituted police data such as
referred to in Article 1, preamble and under a, of the Wpg. Collecting, sending, receiving, looking,
forwarding, storing and destroying police data were processing of police data as
referred to in Article 1, preamble and under c, of the Wpg. The Chief of Police qualifies as
controller for processing camera images with the MCAs, as referred to in
Article 1, preamble and under f, part 1, of the Wpg.
 

Public version
 

 

10/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
3.3 Carrying out a data protection impact assessment

47

48

49

50

51

3.3.1 Legal framework
 
Article 4c, first paragraph, of the Wpg stipulates that in the case of a type of processing, in particular a
processing involving the use of new technologies, having regard to the nature, scale, context or
its purposes is likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, the
controller carries out an assessment of the effect prior to processing
of the intended processing activities on the protection of personal data.
 

3.3.2 Assessment
 
Article 4c of the Wpg provides for the obligation to monitor the processing of police data
are likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals to carry out a GEP.
This applies in particular to processing operations involving the use of new technologies.
Article 35, first paragraph, first sentence of the GDPR contains an identically formulated obligation
processing of personal data that falls within the scope of the GDPR.
 

Probably high risk
The established facts show that there is an innovative application of new technology or
organizational solutions. Having regard to the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of
camera images using the two MCAs, the processing likely posed a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of individuals. The AP explains this below.
 
It follows from marginals 47 and 48 of this Decree that the obligation to carry out a GEB is particularly
becomes apparent in processing operations involving the use of new technologies. The use of such
after all, technologies may involve new forms of data collection and use, possibly with
a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.14
 
It was determined for this that cameras were mounted on the roof of the two MCAs with which 360
degree camera images could be made. These cameras were intended to provide a good image with
sufficient detail up to ten meters around the vehicle. Even at a speed of fifty kilometers
per hour, these cameras make sharp images. It has also been established that people,
including children, were portrayed recognisably. Although the technique of making 360
degree camera images is not new in itself, the use of such cameras on (fast) driving
cars do. Under these circumstances, making sharp images of people with these cameras is very important
in the opinion of the AP an innovative use of this technology. Unlike, for example, the

                                                                        
14 Compare recitals 89 and 90 of the GDPR, as well as Guidance on data protection impact assessments and determining whether
processing is “likely to involve a high risk” within the meaning of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 248 rev.01), p. 12.

Public version
 

 

11/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
use of 360-degree cameras with fixed camera surveillance or on a mobile mast, it uses
such cameras on a moving car, for example, make it possible to follow people and of them
camera images.
 

52 There was also monitoring of publicly accessible space, where personal data are processed

collected from both adults and children, in circumstances where they may not know
that data is collected nor how it is used. Moreover, it can be done for people
impossible to prevent them from meeting a public (or publicly accessible) space
are subject to such processing.15 The MCAs actually have during the
deployment period camera images made in, among other things, residential areas, shopping areas, parks,
recreational areas and at beaches.

53

54

55

 

In addition, one of the purposes of using the mobile cameras was during the emergency ordinance
to get an up-to-date picture in areas “where [were] known to have more during certain periods per day
persons came together than [was] permitted”16. In view of this, the police had – unlike in the pre-GEB
happened – have to take into account the possibility that (also) of large groups of camera images
would be made and that this could transcend the character of incidental monitoring.
 
In view of the foregoing and the sensitive nature of the monitoring of public space, the
processing of the camera images using the MCAs is likely to pose a high risk to the
rights and freedoms of individuals.
 
Furthermore, the context in which and the purpose for which the camera images were made contribute to a
increased risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. The purpose of making the camera images
was, after all, due to the more efficient and targeted enforcement of the corona measures in the
emergency ordinance by enforcers and police. It is certain that the aim was also to identify persons
and that a violation of the emergency ordinance could lead to the imposition of a fine. In addition
the camera images were not only watched live but also processed further, now the camera images
could and, where appropriate, were actually forwarded to other police locations.
Furthermore, the intention was to keep the camera images made with the MCAs for seven days as standard -
a period to which attention has also been drawn in the finally drawn up GEB. In the case of one
incident, the camera images could be kept and used by the police (even) longer.
 
Conclusion

56 Based on the above, the AP concludes that the intended processing of the camera images

using the MCAs is likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals

                                                                        
15 Compare Article 35(3) of the GDPR and Guidance on data protection impact assessments and determining whether a
processing “is likely to involve a high risk” within the meaning of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 248 rev.01), p. 11.
16 See file document 42, 'Deployment frame Mobile Camera Vehicles (MCAs)', p. 1.

Public version
 

 

12/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

57

58

 
yielded. The foregoing means that the chief of police was obliged to precede the intended
processing of camera images to carry out an assessment of the effect on the protection of
personal data.
 
Superfluously, the AP notes that this conclusion of the AP is in line with the decision of the AP in which
the AP has established a list of processing operations for which a GEB is required under the GDPR. Also
it follows from that decision that a GEB is required for fixed and flexible camera surveillance.17
 
Prior to processing
It follows from the foregoing that the chief of police was obliged to inform prior to the intended processing
of camera images to carry out an assessment of the effect on the protection of personal data.
The AP has determined that the police and the municipality of Rotterdam have decided to jointly
to carry out a GEB and that the municipality of Rotterdam and the police make this assessment on 26 May 2020
have completed. However, the processing has already started on April 26, 2020. With that, the chief of police
failed to perform a GEB prior to processing camera images using the MCAs
feed.
 
Chief of Police's views

59 The Chief of Police wishes to emphasize that at no point was any aspect ignored
regarding compliance with the Wpg. According to the chief of police, this is also apparent from the fact that the pre-GEB has been carried out
and with the outcome of that pre-GEB it was assumed that processing could be started
become.
 
Reply AP

60 The DPA has established that the processing started on April 26, 2020, while the pre-GEB only received fourteen
days later, namely on May 10, 2020. For that reason, there can be no question of outcomes that
already in the pre-GEB. Moreover, in that pre-GEB, the police have the information referred to in paragraph 3.3.2. of this decision
factors set out have not been sufficiently recognised, with the result that it has refrained from it at that time
perform a GEB. The AP therefore concludes that attention has indeed been paid to aspects related to
compliance with the Wpg in the sense that the police has drawn up a pre-GEB, but that attention
was substandard.
 

61

3.3.3 Conclusion
 
The processing of camera images made using the MCAs involved processing of
police data likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. For those
this is why the chief of police had a GEB prior to the intended processing of those camera images

                                                                        
17 Decree on the list of processing operations of personal data subject to a data protection impact assessment (DPIA).
is, stcrt. 2019, 64418, points 9 and 10.

Public version
 

 

13/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
have to perform. Processing started on April 26, 2020, while there was no GEB at that time
executed. Consequently, the Chief of Police acted in violation of Section 4c(1) of the Wpg.

4 Fine

4.1 Introduction

62 Prior to the intended processing of police data, the Chief of Police failed to –

namely creating camera images using two MCAs – one GEB to run while that
processing was likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. With this
the Chief of Police has violated Article 4c(1) of the Wpg. The AP sees this as a reason to comply with the
to impose an administrative fine on the chief of police. The AP motivates this in the following.

4.2 Penalty Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019

63 Pursuant to Article 35c, preamble and under c, of the Wpg, read in conjunction with Article 23, fourth paragraph,
of the Criminal Code, the AP is authorized in the event of a violation of Article 4c, paragraph 1, of the
Wpg to impose an administrative fine not exceeding the amount of the fine of the fifth
category, which at the time of the observed violation amounts to an administrative fine of ten
highest € 87,000.18
 
The AP has established fining policy rules to implement the aforementioned power of fining under the Wbp19
(hereinafter: the Penalty Policy Rules). In those Fining Policy Rules, a categorization has been chosen and
bandwidth system. Violation of Article 4c of the Wpg is classified in category III. Category III
has a fine range between €30,000 and €83,000 and a basic fine of €56,500. This follows from
Article 5, under 5.1 and 5.2 of the Fining Policy Rules.

64

 

65 The AP adjusts the amount of the fine to the factors referred to in Article 7 of the

Penalty policies, by lowering or increasing the base amount. It is an assessment of the
seriousness of the offense in the specific case, the extent to which the offense can be imposed on the offender
and, if there is reason to do so, other circumstances.
 
 

                                                                        
18 See Article I of the Decree of 31 October 2019 amending the amounts of the categories, referred to in Article 23, paragraph 4, of
the Criminal Code (Stb 2019, no. 399).
19 Fining policy rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority of 19 February 2019 with regard to determining the amount of
administrative fines (Fine Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019), Stcrt. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

Public version
 

 

14/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
4.3 Fine amount

66

67

A DIA is a process that is intended to describe the processing of personal data, the necessity
and proportionality and the related risks to the rights and freedoms of
help individuals manage by assessing these risks and determining measures to mitigate them
to deal with. It is an important accountability tool because it is a
not only helps the controller to meet the requirements of – in this case – the Wpg,
but also to demonstrate that appropriate measures have been taken to ensure that the
Wpg regulations regarding data protection are complied with. The police have –
in violation of the statutory provision – only decided during the processing to carry out a GEB, and
not prior to the intended processing. And also while executing that GEB are the
processing continued. In view of this, the AP considers the violation serious so that the imposition of a
fine is appropriate.
 
As explained above, violation of Article 4c of the Wpg is classified in the Fining Policy Rules
category III, with a range of fines between a minimum of €30,000 and a maximum of €83,000 and a
basic fine of €56,500.

 

68 The AP sees no reason to increase the basic amount of the fine on the basis of the provisions of Article 7 of the

Reducing or increasing the penalty policy rules in the circumstances mentioned.
 
4.3.1 cooperation with AP investigation
 
Chief of Police's views

69 The chief of police requests the AP to take into account in its assessment that both the municipality and the police have all

70

71

cooperated with the AP's investigation.
 
Reply AP
It has been established that both the municipality of Rotterdam and the police have fully cooperated in the
investigation by the AP. However, the AP is of the opinion that this cooperation has not gone beyond the
statutory obligation pursuant to Section 5:20 of the General Administrative Law Act (hereinafter: Awb). For a
There is therefore no reason to reduce the fine.

4.4 Blame and Proportionality

It follows from the foregoing that the AP sets the fine amount at the basic fine of € 56,500. Finally
Pursuant to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb, the AP assesses whether the application of its policy for
determine the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the specific case, not to one
disproportionate outcome.
 

Public version
 

 

15/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 

4.4.1 Culpability
 
Chief of Police's views

72 The Chief of Police argues, insofar as relevant here, that it must be recognized that a pre-GEB has been

which concluded that a GEB was not necessary. In response to questions
then performed a GEB. In this respect, therefore, there is no question of fault or negligence
chief of police.
 
Reply AP

73 Since this concerns a violation, the imposition of an administrative fine is in accordance with fixed rules

74

case law does not require the AP to demonstrate that there is intent and the AP may be culpable
assume if the perpetrator is established.
 
As explained above, the chief of police was legally obliged to enter prior to processing
carry out a GEB within the framework of the deployment of the MCAs. In the opinion of the AP, in the implementation
of the pre-GEB wrongly failed to recognize by the police that there was indeed a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of individuals. This should have been expected of the police. It is
therefore to reproach the Chief of Police – as controller – for not complying with the provisions referred to in Article
4c of the Wpg has fulfilled the obligation laid down.

 

75 It is not in dispute that the police (together with the municipality of Rotterdam) drew up a pre-GEB with the
purpose of determining whether a
GEB must be executed. However, this pre-GEB was not established until May 10, 2020, therefore fourteen
days after the start of the deployment of the MCAs and (i.e. after the start of) the processing of the
personal data. It would have been the police's way to wait with the deployment of the MCAs until
at least the moment when the pre-GEB would have been established. The circumstance that the police and the
municipality of Rotterdam were already working on the implementation of the pre-GEB before May 10, 2020 - such as the
Chief of Police stated during the opinion hearing – this does not change this. In addition, the police have
processing also continued during the preparation of the GEB, with which the chief of police essentially meets the
meaning of a GEB passes.

 

4.4.2 Proportionality
 

76 The AP is of the opinion that (the amount of) the total fine amount is not disproportionate in itself.20
In this opinion, the AP has taken into account the seriousness of the infringement and the extent to which it is attributable to the chief of police
can be blamed. The fine is also in line with the meaning and role of a GEB in the processing of
personal data, namely improving data protection in processing operations likely
involve high risks related to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

                                                                        
20 See also marginals 66 to 75 for the justification.

Public version
 

 

16/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

77

 
 
In this specific case, however, the AP takes into account that the deployment of the MCAs took place at the beginning of the
COVID-19 outbreak in the Netherlands, namely in April and May 2020. At that time there was a
national crisis situation with many uncertainties, in which the authorities were faced with the task of
to quickly record and immediately implement measures to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. In
Rotterdam, where the infections rose quickly, this led, among other things, to the proclamation of the
so-called GRIP 4 situation.21 In view of this and in view of the impact that the (combating the) pandemic will have on
At the time, maintaining public order in a city like Rotterdam, the municipality stood
Rotterdam and the police together for the task of immediately proceeding to active monitoring of the in
measures included in the emergency ordinance, and where necessary direct enforcement thereof. That
special circumstance makes it explicable for the AP that the chief of police has ordered the execution of a
(complete) GEB less prominent on the retina prior to the processing of the camera images
at least that the chief of police could have felt compelled to do so in view of those circumstances
to make a decision.

 

78 Based on these circumstances, the AP sees reason to reduce the fine. The AP considers this

case a fine of € 50,000 is appropriate and required.
 
4.5 Conclusion
 

79 The AP sets the total fine amount at €50,000.

 

 

                                                                        
21 GRIP stands for Coordinated Regional Incident Response Procedure. GRIP relates to the organization of the
disaster and crisis management by the emergency services of the security region. The GRIP structure is in life
called to organize the upscaling of the emergency services in an orderly manner. There are five scale-up levels, with GRIP I
is the lowest level and GRIP V is the highest level.

Public version
 

 

17/18



 

Date
November 17, 2022

Our reference
z2021-17798

 
5 Operative part

The AP will issue an administrative order to the chief of police for violation of Article 4c, first paragraph, of the Wpg.
fine in the amount of: € 50,000 (in words: fifty thousand euros).22
 
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
e.g.
 
Mr. A. Wolfsen
chair
 
 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decides to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In accordance
Article 38 of the UAVG suspends the effect of the decision until submitting a notice of objection
imposition of an administrative fine. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for submission on paper
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
Mention 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'bezwaarschrift' in the title of your letter.
Write in your notice of objection at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your objection;
- the reference referred to in this letter (case number); or enclose a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you disagree with this decision;
- your signature.

 

                                                                        
22 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB). The fine should be accordingly
Article 4:87, first paragraph, of the Awb must be paid within six weeks. For information and/or instructions about payment, please contact
be recorded with the previously mentioned contact person at the AP.

Public version
 

 

18/18

