 

 

press release

 

TLfDI welcomes the "school cone campaign for media

petenz": But data protection belongs in the bag!

 

The Thuringian Ministry for Education, Youth and Sport, together with the

Thuringian State Media Authority is launching a "School Cone Campaign for Media Competence".

Thuringian schools started. "That's right," says the Thuringian State Commissioner for

data protection and freedom of information, “but data protection must not

be forgotten.” In particular, the “Flimmo” guide packed in the “school bag”

should also refer to the

Storage of IP addresses, search and viewing history, subscribed channels

or location data (geographical region) by YouTube when used

Clues

(please refer

Data protection

from

Google

under

https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=de , section “Your Activities” and “Your

location data”). YouTube is a largely advertising-financed service from Google

Ireland Limited. The retrieval from the European area takes place from Google servers in

Ireland. For this reason, when using YouTube, the

Google's privacy policy and terms of use apply. Also

without consent, the use of YouTube becomes personally identifiable

Processes data about the user's apps, browsers and devices, which also includes Google

and third parties

to be provided

(see privacy policy

under

https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=de, sections "Development of new services",

"Provision of personalized services, including content and advertisements",

"Data transfer by Google"  "For processing by other bodies",

"Requirements

in Europe”  “From legitimate

Interest"). That's how it will be

Advertising network DoubleClick also supplied with data from YouTube in order

Realize advertisements on YouTube. Partially, this data on

servers

processed in countries for which no adequacy decision of the

European Commission pursuant to Art. 45 GDPR (e.g. USA). From the

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
European Court of Justice with the judgment of July 16, 2021 (Case C

311/18; "Schrems II") set very strict requirements for data transmission

to a third country

legitimize. For the US these are currently the

Standard contractual clauses, whereby this contract is first requested by the user

must (see privacy policy at https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=de ,

paragraph “Standard Contractual Clauses”). There are therefore large ones for private users and schools

legal uncertainties.

The decision on whether YouTube under these conditions by children

may be used is also the responsibility of the parents. The parents have to

therefore at least be informed about this.

Further data protection information on the activities of children and young people in the

Internet offers that too

youth portal

"Youngdata" of the independent

Federal and state data protection authorities as well as the canton of Zurich

(www.youngdata.de). Young people, but also their parents, find many of them here

Information on data protection and freedom of information. Especially for handling

with

YouTube

can

further

information

under

https://www.youngdata.de/google/youtube/.

 

Erfurt, October 4th, 2022

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

