1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00077/2019
938-0319

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before Mr.
A.A.A. (claimed), pursuant to a claim filed by Don B.B.B. (onwards,
the claimant) and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 11/22/2018, this body received a claim sent by
Benamocarra City Council (Málaga) following a complaint filed by the
neighbor of the locality (claimant), motivated by the treatment of data carried out to
through cameras of a video surveillance system whose alleged owner is the
denounced referenced with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter the claimed) installed in
***ADDRESS 1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "the existence of three chambers with

orientation towards the public road” (folio nº 1).

 
Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (photographs Annex I) that
accredit the visualization of the public space located in front of their home, without
just cause.

SECOND: On 12/18/2018, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the
denounced party, in order to claim in law that the system conforms to the
current legislation, providing probative material to prove such end, stating
as notified in the computer system of this body.

THIRD: On February 25, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5 of the RGPD, infringement typified in Article 83.5 of the
RGPD and classified as Very Serious in article 72.1 a) of the LOPDPGDD.

FOURTH: On 03/20/19, this body receives written allegations of
the accused party, stating the following:

“On this particular, it should be noted that the home of the undersigned where
the cameras are located at the entrance, in a visible place, of the due plate
informative, which complies with the legal requirements.

It is accompanied as Doc. No. 1, a photograph that proves, effectively, the

existence of this plate.

Regarding the recording of public roads. As far as this extreme is concerned, there is
to say that this is not true or, at least, it is not true at the moment in which it has been
Received the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Around the beginning of November 2018, he appeared at the house (...)
local police officers from Benamocarra, who explained the reason for their
visit and who were allowed access to housing so that they could carry
out, if the pertinent verifications so desired (...) the undersigned has collaborated
at all times with the acting force displaced to the scene of the events.

As a result of these checks, one of the cameras (placed in
the facade) seemed to be recording a part—in any case minimal—of the road
public, so immediately proceeded to carry out the steps leading to
modify the situation—reorientation—in order to avoid that state of affairs.

Subsequently, at the time indicated, the Local Police has not returned to

go through the house with this object.

In any case, the purpose of installing these cameras must be
find it in a cause as justified as the fact of the terrible relationship of
neighborhood between the undersigned and the complainant (...).

Consequently, we consider that the principle of
proportionality, and in any case, that the impact that, eventually, could have
be caused in pedestrians, in addition to being involuntary, it has been minimal”

For all of the above, I request that this document be considered presented and the
documents that accompany it, for having made the allegations and for providing the
evidence (...) and consequently the procedure is archived”.

FACTS

FIRST: On 11/22/18, a claim is received by this body from the
complainant, by means of which he transfers as the main fact the following
“existence of three cameras facing the public road” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: It is accredited as the main person in charge Mr. A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1, which acknowledges that it is the owner of the cameras, installed for reasons of
security.

THIRD: It is accredited that the installed system has an information poster,
at the entrance door, indicating the person responsible for the treatment.

FOURTH: It is proven that the system has three cameras, one of which
which partially obtained images of public roads, although in a portion
minimal.

This fact is verified (photographic evidence No. 1) provided by the Local Police of

Benamocarra (Malaga).

FIFTH: The accused party does not provide a screen print of what in its
case it is observed with the camera that you have reoriented, nor with the others installed in your
private property.

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 11/22/18 by
through which the complainant moves the "installation of cameras" with alleged
facing the public road.

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 5 of the
RGPD, which states that: “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

The known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the

claimed, for violation of article 83 section 5 letter a) RGPD.

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

On 03/20/19, a written statement was received from the accused party,
stating that the house "has the mandatory information poster" on the door
of entry, indicating the person in charge before whom to exercise the rights.

Regarding the recording of public thoroughfares, he states that it is uncertain, at least in

the moment of notification of the Start Agreement of this procedure.

Although it subsequently states that a reorientation has been made, and that "in
In any case, the impact that may have been caused has been minimal” (folio No. 1 written by
allegations).

This body must base its decision on the objective evidence provided
by the State Security Forces and Bodies (Act 10/10/18) where in the
screen print provided from the defendant's computer, it is observed as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

obtains images of public space, specifically of the part located in front of his
living place.

Therefore, the reported administrative infraction is verified, although after the
intervention of the State Security Forces and Bodies, states that
"reorients" them, although it does not provide any screen impression to this
body that confirms what has been stated.

The defendant's claim that the system was adjusted to the
principle of proportionality, since the "bad relationship" with the neighbor argued, does not
justifies the control of a part of public space, which affects third parties outside the
neighborhood conflicts between the parties.

To the above add that it does not provide any documentary evidence (vgr. Complaints,

Judgments, etc) that allows entering to assess the proportionality put forward.

It should be remembered that individuals can install video surveillance cameras,
but that they are responsible for ensuring that it complies with current legislation, and must
be oriented preferably towards their private space.

With this type of device it is not possible, outside the assumptions
permitted exceptions, obtain images of public space, by affecting the right
to the privacy of passers-by.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

Article 22 of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of

Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, provides:

1. Individuals or legal entities, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of persons and goods, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the person in charge of the treatment must keep available to the
affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation (...)”

5/6

III

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, in its
art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the case at hand, we take into account the cooperation that has been maintained
with this body, lending itself to any type of verification of the system, the
minimum space of public space that has been video-monitored, as well as where appropriate
having “reoriented” the camera after the indication of the Local Police of Benamocarra
(Málaga) to your exclusive private space.

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, based on the evidence obtained, it can be concluded that the
denounced installed a video-surveillance system, with which he obtained images of the
public road, which is why it is considered pertinent to warn him, having
violated the regulations in force.

The accused party is reminded that a new complaint confirming
a new "irregularity" of the system, can lead to the opening of proceedings
punisher with the imposition of a fine of an economic nature.

The rest of the issues should be brought to the attention of the
State Security Forces and Bodies or be transferred to the
court closest to the scene of the incident.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to WARN the accused Mr. A.A.A. for the infringement of
article 5 RGPD, having installed a camera oriented towards public space, without
just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don A.A.A. and report the result
of this proceeding to the complaining party—CITY COUNCIL OF
BENAMOCARRA (MÁLAGA)--.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

