1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00340/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

RIMERO: The Spanish Agency for Data Protection proceeded to open the
guardianship of law, TD/00091/2020, having knowledge of the following facts:

On December 2, 2019, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant)
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the City Council of Yecla with NIF P3004300D (in
later, the claimed one).

            The claimant states that the Local Government Board is publishing the
complete agreements, including personal data, breaching the precepts
applicable laws on the treatment and custody of personal data in different
files.

You exercised your right to oppose the publication of your personal data on the

Local Government Board website.

On May 14 of this year, the claimant expands his claim, stating
that in the Local Government Board of April 28, 2020, part of a
medical report of the claimant with his personal data, on the bulletin board of
the website of the City Council and on the transparency portal.

SECOND: The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, issued on 10
of July 2020, resolution of legal guardianship TD/00091/2020, proceeding to
“ESTIMATE the claim made by D. A.A.A. and urge the CITY COUNCIL OF
YECLA with NIF P3004300D, so that, within the following ten business days
to the notification of this resolution, send to the complaining party a certification in
the one that states that it has attended the right of suppression exercised by it or is
deny reasoned indicating the reasons why the deletion is not appropriate
requested. The actions carried out as a result of this Resolution
must be communicated to this Agency within the same period. The breach of this
resolution could entail the commission of the offense typified in article
72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD, which will be sanctioned, in accordance with art. 58.2 of the RGPD”.
Being notified to the City Council on July 16 of this year.

THIRD: On September 1, 2020, the City Council of Yecla,
states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

-

“The resolution of the Spanish Data Protection Agency was
fulfilled by agreement of the Local Government Board in session of
July 21, 2020, agreement that was executed on July 29, 2020.

- In the municipal file corresponding to the reference procedure
There is evidence that the aforementioned agreement was notified to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, being reflected in the appropriate acknowledgment
of receipt that although it had an entry record in that body on the 7th of
August 2020 at 12:08:25, receipt of the document was signed by
an employee of that institution on August 12, 2020.
Likewise, it is stated in the municipal file that the claimant received
electronic notification of the certification of the aforementioned agreement on the 1st of
August 2020, at 11:11 a.m.

-

FOURTH: On August 30 and September 5, 2020, it was received at this Agency
two separate writings of the claimant in which he states that the notification of this
Agency of July 13, 2020, and your requirement has been omitted by the
City Hall of Yecla.

The claimant reaffirms what has already been stated and presents numerous documentation
regarding different publications of other cases, expanding the claim for the
unauthorized publication of your medical data.

The claimant providing various links, where their personal data, their
condition of agent of the Local Police and the content of medical reports the
document sent by the respondent, dated December 19, 2019, which reiterates
the data that was previously notified, which gave rise to the guardianship resolution
of law TD/00091/2020.

FIFTH: On November 27, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 17 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

SIXTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that: “as can be verified in the
municipal website, www.yecla.es, since July 29, 2020, the data
personal D.A.A.A. no longer appear in any of the minutes of the Board of
Government published in the municipal transparency portal, and not only that, but
from July 21, 2020, in accordance with the doctrine of that Agency, all the minutes
of the Local Government Board are previously published anonymously”

SEVENTH: On December 14, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed
the opening of a period of practice of tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, TD/00091/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

EIGHTH: On January 18, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that it be imposed on the City Council of Yecla with NIF P3004300D, for a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

infringement of article 17 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 b) of the RGPD, a
sanction of warning, and a copy of the file was sent.

NINTH: On February 3, 2021, the respondent states that: "the
The City Council responded to the request of the AEPD, and the only thing that has happened (as
we already ventured in our brief of allegations to the resolution of the beginning of the
sanctioning procedure), is that some errors were made in the erasure of
links, remaining active those that had been archived in the server of
the municipal website, www.yecla.es, something that was not known until
Mr. Instructor of the sanctioning procedure has sent the file to the
City Council, and it has been possible to know the links that the interested party cited in his
writings of August 30 and September 5, 2020.

In order to correct such errors and others that may exist, and despite the fact that as
has been exposed, the data of the claimant has already been anonymized, the
following new actions: on the one hand they have been temporarily removed from the
transparency portal of the municipal website (www.yecla.es) all the minutes of
the Local Government Board published in the years 2017 to 2020, to return them
publish again (with the data of the interested party anonymised, of course) with less
margin of error, and on the other, we have proceeded to eliminate the links that by mistake
remained active and were communicated by the interested party to the AEPD (not to the
City Council) in their aforementioned writings of August 30 and September 5, 2020.
Both extremes can be verified by the instruction of the file”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The Yecla City Council Local Government Board is publishing the
complete agreements, including personal data, breaching the precepts
applicable laws on the treatment and custody of personal data in different
files.

SECOND: The claimant exercised his right to oppose the publication of his
personal data on the website of the Local Government Board.

THIRD: On April 28, 2020, the Local Government Board published part of a
medical report of the claimant with his personal data, on the bulletin board of
the website of the City Council and on the transparency portal.

FOURTH: The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, issued on the 10th of
July 2020, legal guardianship resolution TD/00091/2020, estimating the
claimant's claim.

The City Council of Yecla on September 1, 2020, states that the previous
resolution was fulfilled.

FIFTH: On August 30 and September 5, 2020, the claimant states that
the requirement of this Agency has not been met, providing various

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

documentation regarding different publications of other cases, expanding the
claim for the unauthorized publication of your medical data.

The claimant providing various links, where their personal data, their
condition of agent of the Local Police and the content of medical reports, and the
document sent by the respondent dated December 19, 2019 that reiterates the
data that was previously notified, which gave rise to the resolution of guardianship of
right TD/00091/2020.

SIXTH: The respondent states that since July 29, 2020, the data
personal data of the claimant no longer appear in any of the minutes of the Board of
Government published in the municipal transparency portal, and not only that, but
from July 21, 2020, in accordance with the doctrine of that Agency, all the minutes
of the Local Government Board are previously published anonymously.

SEVENTH: It is accredited by the respondent in his letter of February 3, 2021,
the messages that are read on the screen, after trying to activate in Google the
links that were reflected by the claimant in his aforementioned briefs of August 30 and 5
September 2020 (invalid key, page cannot be found, 404. that's
an error, the requested URL/SEARCH was not found on this server. That's all
What do we know).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

II

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have

all of the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

In this sense, article 77.1 c) and 2, 4 and 5 of the LOPGDD, establishes:

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the

Autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2 “When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.”

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority
that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

III

In the case analyzed here, the complaining party exercised its right to

deletion and your request did not obtain the legally required response.

Likewise, after the evidence obtained, there is no evidence that the defendant adopted
the corrective measures requested by the Director of the Protection Agency of
Data, in the approving resolution of the legal guardianship, TD/00091/2020,
consisting of sending the claimant a certification stating that he has
attended the right of deletion exercised by it, or is denied reasoned
indicating the reasons why the requested deletion does not proceed.

The respondent states that since July 29, 2020, the data
personal data of the claimant no longer appear in any of the minutes of the Board of
Government published in the municipal transparency portal, and not only that, but
from July 21, 2020, in accordance with the doctrine of that Agency, all the minutes
of the Local Government Board are previously published anonymously.

Well, on August 30 and September 5, 2020, it was received in this
Agency two separate writings of the claimant in which he states that the notification of
this Agency on July 13, 2020, and your requirement has been omitted by the
City Hall of Yecla.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

The

 claimant reaffirms what has already been stated and presents numerous
documentation regarding different publications of other cases, expanding the
claim for the unauthorized publication of your medical data.

 
The claimant providing various links, where their personal data appears,
his status as a Local Police agent and the content of medical reports on
document sent by the respondent, dated December 19, 2019, which reiterates
the data that was previously notified, which gave rise to the guardianship resolution
of law TD/00091/2020.

Taking into account that as specified in the Additional Provision
seventh of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal Rights and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDP), “when it is necessary to
publication of an administrative act that contained personal data of the affected party,
will identify it by its name and surnames, adding four figures
random numerical numbers of the national identity document, identity number of
foreigner, passport or equivalent document", specifying further that "in
In no case should the name and surnames be published together with the number
complete ..."

           Publish with names and surnames certain personal situations such as
high or low medical, the courses that are requested and denied or the requests for
possible transfers, they are not relevant to be published in digital media
identifying the interested parties, but they do violate the privacy of the individual in question,
therefore, the data of the interested parties will have to be anonymized so that it is protected
privacy and does not conflict with the Transparency Law.

            Therefore, the respondent must take the necessary measures to protect the
Sensitive, medical, professional or identity data of what is published on the page
Web.

In this sense, the respondent has communicated the possible measures that he will
apply so that situations such as the one denounced are not repeated. those measures,
In addition, they should be incorporated in a documented way into their protocol of action,
in order to prove compliance with the GDPR in the future.

Therefore, according to the evidence available in the
At this time, the facts set forth could constitute, on the part of the respondent,
infringement of the provisions of article 17 of the RGPD.

However, it has been accredited by virtue of the documents provided with the
arguments presented to the initial agreement and to the resolution proposal by the
claimed, that it has adopted a series of appropriate measures, in the sense that
the data of the claimant were anonymized and the following new
performances: on the one hand, they have been momentarily removed from the
transparency of the municipal website (www.yecla.es) all the minutes of the Board
of Local Government published in the years 2017 to 2020, to republish them
new (with the data of the interested party anonymized) with less margin of error, and therefore
another, we have proceeded to eliminate the links that were left active by mistake and that
were communicated by the interested party to the AEPD in their aforementioned writings of 30
August and September 5, 2020.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE YECLA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3004300D, for a
infringement of Article 17 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the YECLA CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

