 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 

 

 

FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Athens, 26-07-2019
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/5230/26-07-2019
 

 

 

      

A P O F A S H 26 /2019
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

composition of the Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 15.5.2019 following his invitation
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in the history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the present. They were attended by Deputy President Georgios Batzalexis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obstructing the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos, and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alternate members
 

 

of the Authority Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Evangelos
 

 

 

 

 

Papakonstantinou and Grigorios Tsolias, as rapporteur, in place of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of regular members Antoniou Imbonis, Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charalampos Anthopoulos respectively, who, although they were summoned legally
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. They were present without the right to vote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kalli Karveli, specialist scientist-lawyer, as assistant rapporteur, who
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the case was discussed and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

affairs of the Authority, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

With the no. prot. G/EI /8657/01.12.2017 her complaint to the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notified to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security & Welfare
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as to the Labor Inspectorate (hereinafter "EPE"), the Union
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Accountants and Auditors of the Region of Attica (hereafter "ELEPA") denounces it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

"PWC" company for illegal processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employees in it. As specifically stated in the complaint, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

managers of the complained-about company distributed to its staff a "Statement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of acceptance of terms of Personal Data Processing" as well as new individual ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contracts (attached to the complaint), which included paragraphs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referring to the processing of personal data, urgently requesting that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sign them, in violation of Law 2472/1997, given
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advantageous position of the employer over the employees, so that indirectly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be forced to sign them. As specifically stated in said
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint, a) with the specific statement, the staff was asked to give the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his consent and to expressly and unconditionally allow the company to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to register and use his personal information, both already
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registered as well as future ones, in the databases it maintains, although from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the nature of the company's business activities does not arise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any security reason, which would make such an entry tolerable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and processing of employees' personal data b) requested by them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees to consent with their statement to the further channeling
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their personal data to third parties and even to its customers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the company, asking for the essentially blank consent of the employees to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use and share their personal information with any third party,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wherever and in whatever way it deems that its business interests are served
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interests and c) this is how the further is routed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring them in the workplace such as with cameras etc.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the investigation framework of the complaint the Authority sent with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/4995/08.06.2018
 

document to provide clarifications to
 

 

 

 

 

company
 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS NONYMI ET IRI
 

 

 

 

 

OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING SERVICES A.E." with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

distinctive title "PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS .E."
 

 

 

 

 

 

… (hereinafter “PwC BS” or “the company” or “the controller”), on which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

received a reply from
 

 

 

 

same company which with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Γ/ΕΙ /6134/11.07.2018 her written response – Memorandum of explanation
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

denies ELEPA's allegations of illegal processing, declares that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disputed "Declaration of acceptance of terms of Personal Data Processing" has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

now amended in compliance with the General Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data under no. 679/16 (hereinafter "GDPR") and has already been "accepted" by 390
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers in a total of 415, so that in any case the specific statement is not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is currently in force.
 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the company supports:
  

 

 

 

i. That he never demanded and never forced them directly or indirectly
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its employees to provide their consent to their processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their personal data by signing the above Declaration, in addition,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no sanction was imposed on those who did not sign it.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. That the legal basis of consent is not the only grounding reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the legal processing of the personal data of its staff,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actually citing passages from under no. 115/2001 Directive of the Authority.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. That the processing of the personal data of its staff for those
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes related to the execution of the employment contract are absolutely
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal.
  

iv. That legally transmits or communicates personal data to third parties
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its employees for purposes directly related to the employment relationship or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if the transmission is provided for by a law that is consistent with the provisions of the law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/97 (e.g. transmission to insurance organizations).
  

 

 

 

 

 

v. That the complainant does not specify the cases of transmission or notification
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data to third parties that have been carried out without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

observance of the provisions of the law and in particular the principle of purpose.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vi.
 

That the complaint under consideration should be filed, as ELEPA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is not legitimized for filing a complaint, since it is not subject to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data no. 19 par. 1c' of Law 2472/1997, nor are the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of article 80 GDPR, as it is a trade union organization and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

not an organization for the protection of personal data, nor has it been assigned to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by the subjects themselves to make the relevant complaint.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, the Authority summoned the company PWC BS to a hearing on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting of 03-10-2018, when the discussion of the case was postponed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

at her request. After granting the postponement, ELEPA submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Start it with no. prot.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her original complaint. In particular, he filed the electronic from 15-5-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

letter from the company "PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS ACCOUNTING A.E."
 

 

 

 

 

 

to its employees entitled "European Data Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal - Signature of New Annex", in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was attached "Appendix 1 - Information and provision of consent to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data".
 

 

 

The Authority with from 3.12.2018 and with no. prot. C/EX/9678 her document to
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company PwC BS, requested the provision of clarifications regarding the supplementary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint and in particular requested additional clarifications, among which to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be informed about the compliance measures with the provisions of the GDPR taken by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company as well as bringing to its attention the relevant written internal documentation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by no. 5 par. 2, 24 and 32 GDPR (principle of accountability), on the basis of which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company ended up applying consent as its legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data of employees no. 6 par. 1 sec. a'
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR, in view of the provisions to the contrary included in from 10-7-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Her memo, where she spoke of legal data processing for purposes that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are related to the performance of the employment contract, i.e. in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

different legal basis.
  

 

 

In addition, the Authority requested with the same document to be clarified by the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the legal basis on which the data is processed
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of employees who did not give their consent,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as how the company is going to continue to process them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of its employees in case of revocation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consent.
  

 

Finally, clarifications were requested from the Authority on its part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company's reported installation of a control and monitoring system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means of communication and the electronic equipment it provided to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers
 

her
 

(start time
 

 

 

of the system,
 

 

technically
 

features-capabilities, software specification,
 

 

 

sign up
 

internal
 

documentation for system operation, etc.)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 



The company PWC BS with the no. prot. G/EI /365/18.01.2019 provision reminder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of explanations provided the document "Appendix 1 - Update and provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent
 

to
 

processing
 

personal
 

data
 

from
 

her
 

'PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS NONYMI ET IRI
 

 

 

 

 

PROCESS OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING SERVICES A.E.',
 

 

 

 

 

 

pointing out that every company in the PWC network uses the same
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

standard and for which it is found that it is identical in content with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided
 

from
 

her
 

complainant
 

where
 

concerns
 

her
 

company
 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS ACCOUNTING A.E."
 

 

 

From the content of the new form of the company PWC BS, whose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

signature requested from its employees in the context of giving consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and which was in force at the time of the initiation of the control by the Authority, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claim of the company, it follows:
 

 

 

 

i. that the company will keep and process files with personal data
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of the employee "in the context of the employment contract and for its needs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employment relationship and work organization"
 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. that the purpose of collection and processing is “to enable the fulfillment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligations arising from labor, insurance, tax, customs,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

European and other legislation and easier to execute the employment contract"
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. that "the employee specifically accepts that non-sensitive Personal Data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern him, will be transmitted to third parties who provide technical services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

support and hosting of the Company's databases. This transmission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data to persons established outside Greece is useful,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary and necessary for reasons related to the employment of the Lessee...".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iv. that the company provides the employee with the necessary electronic equipment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

property of her, in order to be used exclusively and only for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

execution of his duties and the service of the operational and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

production needs of the company, expressly prohibited by any other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of use.
 

 

5
 

v. that the company in the context of exercising the managerial right "[...] is entitled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to control and ensure that the means of communication and electronic equipment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are actually used for the purpose for which they are granted'.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vi. that "the Employee consents to the control and monitoring by the Company of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means of communication and electronic equipment... those stored on PCs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Information Society
 

 

 

(including all
 

 

of electronics
 

 

of stored data), which he makes available to the Lessee in accordance with the above,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order, among other things, to ensure that the Tenant complies with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his contractual obligations...to prevent the risk of using the internet...and/or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sabotage of electronic programs and/or to ensure compliance,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the Company's legal obligations"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v. that for the purposes of applying the GDPR "responsible for processing and executors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing is defined by PWC BS'.
  

  

 

 

 

 

vi. that "Already by signing this, the Lessee acknowledges that the collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Personal Data is done for purposes directly related to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

needs of the employment relationship and work organization, as well as that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Personal Data brought to the attention of the Company are relevant and appropriate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of the employment relationship and the organization of work..."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vii. that “the Tenant further provides his consent to the Company for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

collection and processing of his Personal data in accordance with the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

especially taken. It is clarified that the above described processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is carried out by virtue of the consent granted here by the Tenant".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

viii. that "this processing is also necessary (a) for its execution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this agreement between the Lessee and the Company, (b) for compliance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal obligations of the Company, from labor, insurance, tax,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

customs, European and other legislation and (c) for legal purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interests pursued by the company...".
 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the company in the same memo asserted that:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

6
 

i.
 

Yes with the Article 29 Working Party in its Guidelines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28.11.2017 finds that the consent
 

 

 

 

 

of
 

employee is considered
 

 

also problematic for the majority of personal edits
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since the legal basis cannot and should not be consent, except
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

however, in exceptional cases, employees can give time off
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent. And the company concludes: "Consequently we understand that it may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is claimed that, as additional to the legal basis of the processing that constitutes the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our obligations from our employment contracts, the consent of the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees is not a necessary and necessary condition/legal basis for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

of the workers. However
 

 

 

the opposite view is also clearly supported, especially if this consent is given
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

freely and without negative consequences for the workers".

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

ii.
 

That absolutely nothing is determined by ELEPA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an incident that results in the adoption of compelling behavior and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of coercive measures against any of the 485 employees for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

signing the declaration, nor did any of the 5 employees who did not sign
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the statement in question suffered no negative consequence - sanction.
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii.
 

That "[...] although it can be argued that it is not necessary or necessary the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent to the processing of personal data, faced with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the (yet) new and specialized law of personal data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, we adopted a conservative approach and, looking to the maximum
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possible security for us, but also in order not to risk or even to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered that we might be infringing on the right of our tenant, we also requested the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of our staff, without implying in any way that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the non-granting of this will have any negative consequence for the employee... for everything
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibly we proposed, if they agree, to give us their consent as well".
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iv.
 

That "if our employee does not grant us his consent or withdraws it afterwards
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

holiday, will not suffer any consequences. but we will proceed normally, alone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its indisputable and proven update, as we have a legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing...(t)the(n) performance of our obligations from our work
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contract, in which the employees are contracting parties (article 6 par. 1 para. b
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
 

and c and 3 para. b GDPR). Therefore, not giving consent or withdrawing it,
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

does not prevent us from proceeding with the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

related to the performance of our work obligations by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employment contract".
 

 

v.
 

That the company does not monitor the communications of its personnel,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone or electronic, That the minimum possible information is recorded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

able to operate the systems in question, providing at the same time to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority relevant information for the use of software related to the installation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

digital certificate for connecting the telephone devices to the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

network, for statistical data applications, for the use of software that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure the safe sending of electronic messages, for use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of DLP, antivirus and antimalware software installed on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computers, to use data collection software
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recording as well as for the use of service to prevent the risk
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

illegal use of the internet.
  

 

 

 

Following this, the Authority with no. prot. C/EX/552/24.01.2019 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/553/24.01.2019 calls respectively invited ELEPA and PwC BS, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attend the meeting of the Department of the Authority on 13.02.2019, for this purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to hold a hearing of the company on the possible violation of the text
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legislation for the protection of personal data, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provisions of articles 57 and 58 GDPR in combination with the provisions of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

articles 19 and 21 of law 2472/1997, as well as those of article 14 par. 10 of the Civil Code (law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2690/1999).

   

During the hearing on 13.02.2019 by the Union of Accountants and Auditors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A, ... and B, ... , and on behalf of the company, attended the Attica Region
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PwC BS Anastasia Platypodis, attorney-at-law, who, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

developed their opinions orally, then respectively submitted the sub
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot. G/EI /1580/28.02.2019 and G/EI /1565/28.02.2019 memos to
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Principle. it is noted that at the request of PWC BS, G. was also present
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection Officer (DPO) of the company, without however being subject to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he was not asked any questions by the Authority and without taking a position on the issues
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that were put to the hearing.
  

 

 

 

 

8
 

The representatives of ELEPA during the above hearing of 13.02.2019, but
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and with the no. prot. G/EI /1580/28.02.2019 in their memorandum, stated that a) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of the employees is not free and depends on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

how necessary all forms of processing are for the performance of the contract
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data to which they are asked to consent to the dispute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

declaration of consent by the employees, b) the relevant declaration of consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was an annex to new individual employment contracts that the employer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company was calling the workers to sign and ELEPA objected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calling on the Labor Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labor to look into them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, and the result of the audit stated that the terms of the individual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of open-ended employment contracts exceed the provisions of the labor law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legislation and need rewording, so that they become legal, c) PwC
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BS through the consent of the transmission of their personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employed by third parties outside the country and through their registration in databases
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data held in another country, seeks pre-emption
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legalization through the consent of its data subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

escape from the scope of the GDPR, without actually having informed the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects fully on the extent and forms of processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by these third parties, d) the possibility of them is not defined in any way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees for their access to their personal data, as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the right to be forgotten is not defined, nor protected in any way, e)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the third parties to whom the data is transmitted may still be
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and customers and/or prospective customers not bound by any contractual agreement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relationship with PwC BS, and e) ELEPA, as a trade union organization of workers,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has an obvious justification for reporting to the competent authorities and services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issues concerning every aspect of the labor relations of their members.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PwC BS by its attorney, at its above hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.02.2019, but also with the no. prot. G/EI /1565/28.02.2019 with hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

memo argued that:
 

 

 

i. "legal basis for processing the personal data of our staff
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is our working relationship and in particular the fulfillment of our obligations which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stem from it (Article 6 par. 1 para. b and c para. b of the GDPR)"
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
 

ii. "alternatively, we also considered consent as a complementary legal basis"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and that the provision of consent on the part of its employees was free
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and conscious, without exerting pressure and coercion.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. respects the reservations formulated by OE 29 in the Guidelines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 28-11-2017 for consent as a legal basis for processing "[...] and for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for this reason we are absolutely willing to abandon the specific legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of processing'.
 

 

iv. submits and brings to the attention of the Authority a "Employee Information" plan
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the processing of their personal data..." "which will be carried out on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the employment contract, as a legal basis for the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of its personnel".
 

 

 

 

v. "[...] all the 'phrasal failures' about monitoring have been removed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communications of our staff, as we have presented in detail before you
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and we analyzed in particular in our memo of 18.1.2019, we never carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such".
  

 

Finally, with the same Memorandum, the company presented a series of interiors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Policies within the organization of internal compliance, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were requested by the Authority during the hearing.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, the hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure and after hearing the rapporteur and assistant rapporteur, who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the case was discussed and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision, after thorough discussion and taking into account in particular:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The provisions of the decree, and in particular those of articles 2 par. 1, 5 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1, 5A, 9, 9A, 19 par. 3, 17, 22, 25 and 28.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 04.11.1950 which was sanctioned with n.d. 53 of 19.9.1974, as applicable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

today and especially those of article 8.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. The provisions of Operation of the European Union treaty and in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

those of article 16.
  

 

 

 

 

4. The provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 

(2012/C 326/02) and in particular those of articles 7, 8 and 52.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. The provisions of the Council of Europe convention on protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of persons against the automated processing of data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature of 28.1.1981 ("convention 108"), which was ratified with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law 2068/1992, as it applies today and in particular those of articles 5 and 6.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. The provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. 679/2016.
 

 

 

7. The provisions of Law 2472/1997 to the extent that they do not conflict with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the GDPR (see GDPR 46/18 and 52/18)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8. The provisions of Directive no. 115/2001 of the Protection Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data with regard to employee files.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. The under no. 2/2017 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group, on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data at work (WP 249)
 
 

10. The Working Document of the Article 29 Working Group dated 5-29-2002
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the surveillance of electronic communications in the workplace
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(WP55)
 

11. Under no. 8/2001 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data in the context of work
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relations (WP 48)
 
 

 

12. Under no. 06/2014 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the concept of legitimate interests of the controller (WP
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

217), to the extent that it is interpretatively useful in the present context.
 
 

13. The Guidelines of the Working Group of article 29
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679", WP260 rev.01, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measure that are interpretatively useful in the context of this.
 
 

14. The under no. 2/2006 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy when providing electronic control services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

post office (WP 118), to the extent that it is interpretatively useful in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

context of the present.
 
 

 

15. The working document of the Working Group approved on 21-11-2000
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 29 for its Protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy on the Internet
 

 

 

 

(5063/00/OE37), to the extent that it is interpretatively useful in the context of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present.
 

 

11
 

16. The August 1996 report and recommendations of the International Team
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Work for the protection of personal data in the field of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(IWCDPT) on Telecommunications and Privacy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17. The Code of Ethics of the International Labor Organization for
 

in labor relations
 
  
protection of the personal data of its employees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1997.
 
   

 

18. , The under no. 2015/5 request of the Council of Ministers of 04-01-2015
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the processing of personal data in the context of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

labor relations.
  
 

 

19. The under no. R (89)2 request of the Council of Ministers of 01-18-1989
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the protection of personal data received
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing in labor relations.
  

 

 

 

 

SEVEN E ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. With article 94 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

679/2016 repealed Directive 95/46/EC from 25.5.2018, when it was put into
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the GDPR no. 99 par. 2 thereof. Law 2472/1997 is still valid
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that its provisions do not conflict with the GDPR (see GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46/18 and 52/18).
  

 

 

 

2. The processing of personal data should be intended
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to serve man. The right to personal data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character is not an "absolute right", it must be evaluated in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his functioning in society and to be weighed against other fundamental rights,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the principle of proportionality (Ref. 4 GDPR).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. according to recital 39 of the GDPR "any data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature should be reasonable and fair. It should be
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clear for natural persons that personal data concerning them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

collected, used, taken into account or otherwise submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed, as well as to what extent the data is or will be submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12
 

in processing. This principle requires all information and communication about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of said personal data to be easy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accessible and understandable and use clear and simple language. this is the beginning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concerns in particular the information of the data subjects about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identity of the controller and the purposes of the processing and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

further information to ensure fair and transparent processing in relation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with said natural persons and their right to receive confirmation and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

achieve communication of personnel data related to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character being processed. It should be communicated to the physical
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons the existence of risks, rules, guarantees and rights in relation to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data and how to exercise rights
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them in relation to this processing. In particular, its specific purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data should be clear,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal and identified at the time of collection of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character. The personal data should be sufficient and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes of their processing.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 this requires in particular to ensure that the storage period of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data to be limited to the minimum possible. The data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature should only be processed if o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose of the processing cannot be achieved by other means. To ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that personal data is not kept longer than it is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary, the controller should set deadlines for erasure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them or for their periodic review. Every reasonable allowance should be made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measure to ensure that personal data that is not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accurately corrected or deleted. Personal data should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be processed in a way that ensures appropriate protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and confidentiality of personal data, among others to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any unauthorized access to this personnel data is prevented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character and the equipment used for their processing or use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these personal data and the equipment in question."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

4. in accordance with the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature are subjected to legal and legitimate processing with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13
 

transparent manner in relation to the data subject ("lawfulness,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

objectivity, transparency").
  

 

 

5. In order for the personal data to be legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, i.e. processing according to the requirements of the GDPR, should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to cumulatively meet the conditions of application and observance of its principles
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 5 par. 1 GDPR, as it appears from its recent decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Court of the European Union (CJEU) of 16-01-2019 in the case C-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

496/2017 Deutsche Post AG v Hauptzollamt Köln1. The existence of a law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

foundation (Art. 6 GDPR) does not exempt the data controller from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation to comply with the principles (art. 5 par. 1 GDPR) regarding the legitimate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, necessity and proportionality, and its principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

minimization2. in the event that any of them are violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

principles provided for in article 5 par. 1 GDPR, the processing in question is present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as illegal (subject to the provisions of the GDPR) and the examination of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of application of the legal bases of article 6 GDPR3. Thus, the v
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation of the principles of Article 5 of the GDPR, illegal collection and processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data is not cured by the existence of a legal purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and legal basis (cf. APDPH 38/2004).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the CJEU with its decision of 01-10-2015 in the context of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

case C-201/14 (Smaranda Bara) considered as a condition of legitimate and legal
 
                                                            
1 "57. However, any processing of personal data must be consensual, on the one hand
 
 
to the principles that must be respected in terms of data quality, which the article sets
 
6 of Directive 95/46 or Article 5 of Regulation 2016/679 and, on the one hand, to the basic principles of
 
 
lawful data processing listed in Article 7 of this Directive or Article 6 of
 
 
of this regulation (cf. decisions ...C-465/00, C-138/01, C-139/01, C-131/12"..
  
2 directly see L. Mitrou, the general regulation of personal data protection [new law-new
 
 
obligations-new rights], published by Akkoula, 2017 pp. 58 and 69-70).
  
3 Compare tE 517/2018 para. 12: "[...] in order for the personal data to be
 
 
legal processing, it is required in any case that its conditions are cumulatively met
 
article 4 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, which, among other things, stipulates that the data must be collected and
 
be processed in a fair and lawful manner, for clear and lawful purposes... Provided
 
the conditions of article 4 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997 (legal collection and processing
 
data for clear and legitimate purposes), it is further examined whether the conditions are met
 
of the provision of article 5 par. 2 of Law 2472/1997 [legal bases]". Also, cf
 
Plenary 2285/2001 par. 10: "[...] Only if the above basic conditions are met,
 
the provisions of articles 5 and 7 of Law 2472/1997 apply, which impose as a further
 
additional, in principle, condition of legal processing of personal data
 
specific person, his consent".
  

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14
 

processing of personal data, its updating
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject of the data before processing them4.
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6.

Furthermore, the data controller, in the framework of his part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance with the principle of legitimate or fair processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, must inform the data subject that it is going to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process his data in a legal and transparent manner (for details, see DEE C-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

496/17 op.p. par. 59 and OJ C-201/14 of 01-10-2015 par. 31-35 and especially 34) and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be in a position at all times to demonstrate compliance with the principles
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these (principle of accountability according to no. 5 par. 2 in combination with 24 par. 1 and 32
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR).
  

The processing of personal data in a transparent manner recommends
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

manifestation of the principle of fair processing and is linked to its principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability, giving the subjects the right to exercise control over
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their data, making controllers accountable (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines OE 29, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016/679, WP260 rev.01, pp. 4 and 5).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The collection and processing of personal data will not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must take place secretly or by concealing it from their subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, as well as by hiding all the necessary information (unless
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided for by the legislation subject to the conditions of article 8
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E ΔA). The recognition and selection of the appropriate legal basis from among
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided for in article 6 par. 1 GDPR is closely linked to the principle of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legitimate or fair processing as well as with the principle of purpose limitation,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the data controller must not only choose the appropriate legal
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis before the start of the processing, but also to inform by no. 13 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ed. 3 and 14 par. 1 sec. c GDPR for the use of the data subject,
  
                                                            
4 "31. the person in charge of the data processing or his representative have an obligation
 
 
update, the content of which is defined in articles 10 and 11 of Directive 95/46 and differs
 
depending on whether the data is collected by the person to whom the data concern or not,
 
and this subject to the exceptions provided for in article 13 of the said directive [...] 34.
 
Therefore, the requirement for legitimate data processing provided for in Article 6 of the Directive
 
95/46 obliges the administrative authority to inform the persons concerned by the data
 
regarding the transmission of said data to another administrative authority for the purpose of processing
 
them from the latter as the recipient of said data".
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
 

as the choice of each legal basis exerts a legal influence on their application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights of subjects5.
  

 

 

Thus, the data subject should be informed about the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his rights, for the lawful and reasonably expected of him, true manner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and purpose of processing6, which must not contradict the equally reasonable and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legitimate expectations of protection of his privacy7, nor to drive without his knowledge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in causing risks to his fundamental rights and freedoms,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in particular for the right to the protection of personal data8.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the framework of the principle of fair or fair processing in a transparent manner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is particularly important that the controller chooses the appropriate one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis, so that it is not created in the subject of the data n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

false impression that he provides his consent in accordance with article 6 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ed. a' GDPR, when in reality the processing is based on execution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contract9.
  

 

                                                            
5 See draft Guidelines 2/2019 of the European under public consultation
 
 
 Data Protection Board "on the processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR
 
in the context of the provision of online services to data subjects" pp. 3-6, par. 1, 12, 17-20 and
 
footnote 2 and 8.
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

6 See draft Guidelines 2/2019 of the European under public consultation
 
 
 of the Data Protection Council p. 5: “The principle of fairness includes, inter alia, recognizing
 
 
the reasonable expectations of the data subjects, considering possible adverse effects of imbalance
between them and the controller” as well as footnote 8.
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

7 In other words, the data controller should, in accordance with what is accepted in the context
 
 
application of the legal basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. in the GDPR (necessary and superior law
 
interest) to take into account the reasonable and legitimate expectations of the data subject
 
(cf. p. s. 47 GDPR) entering his position. As characteristically reported by L. Mitrou,
 
Personal Data Protection in . Katsikas/D. Gritzalis/ . Gritzalis "Safety
 
of Information Systems", 2014 p. 464: "The "image" that forms the subject of
 
of data is also a criterion for assessing the legitimate character of the processing. According to
 
the principle of "fairness", the one who processes personal information should not
 
 
uses in ways that are not compatible with the impression of the data subjects
 
 
regarding their use".
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

8 literally see European Union Agency For Fundamental Rights [FRA], Handbook on
 
 
European legislation on the protection of personal data, 2014, p. 90 ff., English
 
2018 edition, p. 117 ff., ICO UK decision of 09-4-2019 on the imposition of a financial penalty on
 
company Bounty (UK) Limited, especially paras 36-41.
   
9 See draft Guidelines 2/2019 of the European under public consultation
 
 
 Data Protection Board "on the processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR
 
in the context of the provision of online services to data subjects" p. 6 par. 20.
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16
 

reality through adherence to the principle of what is legitimate or fair
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing personal data in a transparent manner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a relationship of trust is established between the controller and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data subject, which exceeds the limits of the principle of transparency and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extends to the processing of personal data in an ethical manner (see FRA,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2018, op. op., p. 119), so that it can be validly argued that the responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processor must act in accordance with his reasonable and legitimate expectations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject, in accordance with what was stated above (see also footnote 7).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Such a relationship of trust is broken when the controller, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before starting the processing, has chosen a specific legal basis and has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inform the data subject about it, finally, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the processing, it switches to another legal basis.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.
 

The choice of the legal basis for the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character must take place before the start of the processing, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller is obliged based on the principle of accountability (see art. 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 in cond. with 24 and 32 GDPR) to choose the appropriate legal basis from among them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided by article 6 par. 1 GDPR, as well as being able to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

demonstrate in the context of internal compliance the observance of its principles
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 5 para. 1 GDPR, including of course the documentation on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the basis of which it arrived at the relevant legal basis.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.
 

Furthermore, a new compliance model was adopted with the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a central dimension of which is the principle of accountability in the context of which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controller is obliged to design, implement and in general
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

takes the necessary measures and policies, in order to process them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given that it is in accordance with the relevant legislative provisions. In addition, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller is burdened with the further duty to prove from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

himself and at all times his compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR. It is no coincidence that the GDPR includes accountability (Article 5 para. 2 GDPR)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the regulation of the principles (article 5 par. 1 GDPR) governing the processing,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

giving it the function of a compliance mechanism,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

essentially reversing the "burden of proof" as to its legitimacy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17
 

processing (and in general compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transferring it to the controller,10 so that it can be reasonably argued that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he bears the burden of invoking and proving its legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing11.
  

Thus, it constitutes an obligation of the data controller, on the one hand, to receive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by itself the necessary measures in order to comply with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requirements of the GDPR, on the one hand, to prove the above at all times
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its compliance, without actually requiring the Authority, in the context of exercising the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its investigative - auditing powers, to submit individual - specialized ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

queries and requests to determine compliance.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is pointed out that the Authority, due to the fact that the first period is passing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application period of the GDPR, submits questions and requests in the context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising its relevant investigative and auditing powers, in order to facilitate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controllers' documentation of accountability. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller must, in the context of the Authority's audits and investigations, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

presents by himself and without relevant questions and requests from the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures and policies it adopted in the context of its internal organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his compliance, as he is aware of them, having designed and implemented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the relevant organization.
  

 

 

 

 
9.

The Authority, regarding the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of labor relations, interpreting the provisions of Law 2472/1997
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has issued the under no. 115/2011 Directive on data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature in the labor relations, in the context of which he has accepted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among others that, as follows from the principle of purpose, the collection and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data of employees is allowed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exclusively for purposes directly related to the employment relationship and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insofar as it is necessary for the fulfillment of the obligations of both parties which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are founded on this relationship, whether they originate from the law or from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

                                                            
10 literally see L. Mitrou, The principle of Accountability in Obligations of the controller [G.
 
 
Giannopoulos, L. Mitrou, G. Tsolias], logical Volume L. Kotsali – K. Menoudakou “The GDPR,
 
Legal dimension and practical application", published by Law Library, 2018, p. 172 ff.
   
11 P. de Hert, V. Papakonstantinou, D. Wright and S. Gutwirth, The proposed Regulation and the
 
 
construction of a principles-driven system for individual data protection, p. 141.
  

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18
 

contract (p.10). Further, the Authority accepted in the same Directive that consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of employees cannot lift the prohibition of exceeding the purpose and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that in the case of employment relations, the inherent inequality of the parties and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as a rule, the dependency relationship of workers calls into question freedom
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employees' consent, a necessary element for its validity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing (p. 10).
 

 

 

 

 
10.

 the application framework of the GDPR, consent is provided as one of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis for processing personal data (article 6 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ed. a'), under the conditions of Article 7 GDPR, in accordance with the meaning that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assigned under no. 4 para. 11 GDPR and in compliance with the principles provided for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from article 5 par. 1 GDPR.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 under no circumstances should greater emphasis be placed on the legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of consent as more important or weightier than
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the other legal bases. The possible ease with which the person in charge can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to receive a positive response from the requested data subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data does not mean that correctly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the specific legal basis was chosen, nor that this positive answer meets the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

criteria of legal and valid consent.

 

 

 

 

 

    

To ensure that it is freely given, consent should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in a specific case, when it is coercive12 or when it exists
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clear disparity between the data subject and the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing (see Petition no. 43 GDPR). Furthermore, according to the same rationale
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consideration referred to in the provision of article 7 par. 4 GDPR, the consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is deemed not to have been freely given, when the performance of a contract,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

including the provision of a service, requires consent,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

even if such consent is not necessary for said execution.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 according to Opinion 2/2017 of the Working Group of article 29 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.
 

Directive 95/46/EC "for data processing at work (data processing at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
12 literally see CJEU, C-291/12, decision of 17.10.2013 para. 32 in Law No. 2013, p. 2316 with comments I.
 
 
Koufaki.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19
 

work-WP249 of 08-6-2017)" rarely the employee can provide a valid
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent to the employer for the processing of his personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character (see p. 4) and in such processing as a legal basis should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent applies due to the nature of the employment relationship (see p. 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 7), as was similarly supported by OE29 in no. 8/2011 (p. 23)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

earlier Opinion of "(on the processing of personal data in the employment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

context- WP48 of 13-9-2001)', but it is also accepted by the board of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Europe13.
  

In addition, according to the OE29 Guidelines of 10-4-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"to provide consent under the GDPR (WP259rev.01)", the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

power imbalance between employer and employee leads to the conclusion that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the majority of cases of personal data processing in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work the legal basis cannot and should not be that of consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see p. 7). In fact, OE29 cites as an example of its incorrect application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis of consent in the case of system operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

surveillance of workers in the workplace through cameras (see p. 7).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 according to OE29 Opinion 15/2011 "regarding the definition of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12.
 

of consent (WP187 of 13-7-2011)' as a principle, consent should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taken as an exception to the other data protection principles, but as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

warranty. It is primarily a basis of legitimacy and does not exempt from it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the other principles (see p. 9). As pointed out by OE29 in reference no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

06/2014 Opinion of "regarding the concept of the legal interests of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing (WP 217, p. 21)' when consent is used incorrectly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

way, the control of the person to whom the data refers is made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

delusion and consent is an inappropriate basis for processing.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the choice of the appropriate legal basis in the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of employees in the context of employment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relationship should, in addition to the aforementioned that lead to its exclusion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implementation of the consent, to undergo the "test of its revocation
 
                                                            
13 European Union Agency For Fundamental Rights [FRA], Handbook on European data protection
 
 
law, 2018, pp. 144 and 332.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20
 

consent". As described by OE29 in Opinion 15/2011 on consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see above), if the consent is withdrawn, the processing of the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

continues with another legal basis, doubts may arise as to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

initial use of consent as valid legal basis: if processing can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had been carried out from the beginning using this other basis, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the natural person's consent to the processing had been requested
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

could be considered misleading or basically unfair, as it hides the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actual legal basis applicable to the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data (p.16), the moment in fact when the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obliged by no. 13 par. 1 sec. 3 and 14 par. 1 sec. c' GDPR to inform it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject for the applicable legal basis of processing.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As correctly pointed out in the OE29 Guidelines of 10-4-2018
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"to provide consent under the GDPR (WP259rev.01)", when the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller chooses to rely on the legal basis of consent,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

then he should be prepared to respect that choice and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stop the processing part, if the data subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdraw his consent. Any subsequent to its revocation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent processing pursuant to another legal basis makes it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

illegal and unfair processing. The controller cannot
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

change the legal basis during processing, e.g. from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent on another legal basis and should be timely at the time of collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data to have chosen the correct (and possibly unique) legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see p. 23).
  

 

 

Of course, it cannot be excluded in specific cases
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibility of parallel – simultaneous application of different legal bases
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data, including this one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent, provided they are used in the correct context and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in particular they serve different processing purposes.
 

 

 

 

 

Thus, while for the processing of his personal data
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee that are directly related to his employment will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

apply the legal basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. b' GDPR or for the fulfillment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employer's obligations in relation to his social security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee or related tax obligations, the law will apply
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21
 

basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. c GDPR or for the protection of property and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the legal basis of article 6 will be applied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 sec. in the GDPR, however, the legal basis of consent according to article 6 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 pc. a' GDPR will be applied in cases where no other law remains
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of application, such as e.g. in the event that the employer requests it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of the workers in order to take part in the magnetic resonance imaging
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

moments from their working life (for example see p. 7 OE 29
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines WP259rev.01 of 10-4-2018 for the provision of consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to GDPR as well as European Union Agency For Fundamental Rights
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[FRA] Handbook on European legislation for the protection of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data, 2014 edition pp. 69-70) or e.g. for photographing them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees in order to post their photo on the corporate intranet
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(intranet) together with the rest of their contact details (for example see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

p. 16 OE29 Opinion 15/2011, ibid. and FRA ibid., 2018 edition, p. 145).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.
 

 the case in which the controller wishes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process personal data which is really necessary for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performance of the contract, consent is not the appropriate legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis, but that of article 6 par. 1 sec. II GDPR (see OE29, Guidelines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Consent lines, p. 10). Accordingly, the European Council
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection considers that in any case the processing is not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary for the performance of the contract, such processing takes place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legally only if it is based on another appropriate legal basis14.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.
 

In particular, the principles of marriage, legitimate (or fair) and in a transparent manner
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data require its selection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consent as legal basis no. 6 par. 1 GDPR, only if the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other legal bases do not apply, so that during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to later make it impossible to change and switch to another
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis. in case the data subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdraws his consent, the continuation of the processing is not allowed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
14 See draft Guidelines 2/2019 of the European under public consultation
 
 Data Protection Board "on the processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR
 
 
in the context of the provision of online services to data subjects" p. 6.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22
 

of personal data under another legal basis, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extrapolated. When the legal basis of consent is correctly applied, under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concept that no other legal basis is applicable, the non-grant or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its withdrawal is equivalent to an absolute prohibition of data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature.
  

 

15.
 

The employer exercising his managerial right, under the obvious
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

condition of compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR and on the basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided before the processing of specific procedures and guarantees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of the internal compliance organization according to its principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability, is entitled to exercise control over electronic means of communication
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided to employees for their work, if relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, respecting the principle of proportionality, is absolutely necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the satisfaction of the legitimate interest it seeks and under the condition that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this obviously overrides the rights and interests of the employee,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without affecting the fundamental freedoms of this person under no. 6 par. 1 sec. in the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and after he has been informed even about the possibility of a related control (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in detail APDIPH 34/2018 and no. 17 par. 19 of the GDPR implementing law draft
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under public consultation15).
 

 

 

 in this case, the just and necessary should be achieved
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

balance between the goals of achieving the legitimate interests pursued by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller on the one hand (see OE29, Opinion 2/2017 “on data processing at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work”, p. 4) and respecting the reasonable and legal expectations of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees for the protection of personal data in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workplace, on the other hand. The legitimate and reasonable expectations of employees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case, they find support in the principles of common law and legitimate or fair with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transparent way of processing such personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

correspondingly creating the relevant obligations for the data controller.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

make it clear that the protection of "privacy" based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 8 E DA does not exclude the professional life of employees and does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is limited to life within the place of residence (see APDPX 34/2018 and OE29
 
 
                                                            
15 http://www.opengov.gr/ministryofjustice/?p=9314
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23
 

Working paper on the surveillance of electronic communications in place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of work of 29-5-2002, WP55, p. 8).
  

 

 

 

 

 

The fact that the employer may be the owner of the electronics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means of communication (e.g. pc, tablets, telephone devices, corporate network
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communications, servers, etc.) or that an electronic letter has been sent from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corporate mailing address does not lead to alienation of the right to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private life (see ECHR, Section I, George Garamukanwa v. UK of 14-5-2019, para.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25), of the right of employees to the protection of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature, of the right to the protection of the privacy of communications and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the relevant position data (see OE29 Opinion 2/17, p. 22 and OE29, WP55,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ibid., p. 22), nor can it certainly be accepted that the personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of the employees, produced by the use of corporate means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communications are the "property" or "property" of the employer because they are the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

owner of the above means of communication, approach adopted by department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the jurisprudence of the US courts, but not of the European Union.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Any previous information about monitoring or interception of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employee's communications by the employer does not automatically mean that no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 8 E DA is violated (OE29 WP55, op. p. 9), when the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of the exceptionally legal restriction of the relevant individual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right.
  

On the other hand, the employer is entitled to receive the necessary, legal
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and proportionate measures in order to operate properly and efficiently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

business and be protected from the loss or damage that may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

caused by the actions of the employees (see APDPX 34/2018, OE29, WP55,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ibid., p. 4).
 

 

 

  
Consent is not an appropriate legal basis for processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.
 

of the personal data of the employees in the context of their control
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these electronic communications, but the no. 6 par. 1 sec. in GDPR legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis, as set forth above (see APDPH 34/2018, OE29, WP 55, ibid. p. 23).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accordingly, in this case, the choice of law would be problematic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of the execution of the employment contract no. 6 par. 1 sec. II GDPR as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the one hand, the relevant processing may (depending on the nature of the employment)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24
 

exceeds the measure necessary for the execution of the (employment contract) (see OE 29
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 6/2014 on the concept of the legitimate interests of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of 09-4-2014, WP 217, p. 22), on the other hand, it is validly supported
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see OE29 Opinion 6/2014, ibid., p. 32) that the control of employees for purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security or management, the installation and operation of complaint systems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

irregularities and the protection of physical security as well as IT and networks
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are basically considered (see p. 83 footnote 125) a legitimate interest of the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, as long as this is "acceptable under the law" (with reference to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion OE29 under no. 3/2013 of 02-4-2013, WP 203 regarding the limitation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose).
  

17.
 

In this case, from the data in the case file,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the hearing of the company as well as the reminders that it submitted, emerged
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that PWC BS processes their personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its employees, having the no. 4 par. 7 GDPR status of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, since it determines the purposes and method of processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of those included in systems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

filing, and therefore becomes liable to comply with the authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

introduced by Article 5 GDPR.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority accepts the claim of the company included in from 10-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7-2018 memorandum (ADDPH G/EI /11.07.2018), according to which it had already
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

amend the "Declaration of acceptance" attached to the ELEPA complaint
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Terms of Personal Data Processing", which was no longer in force
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the subject of control is the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character as described in the document “Appendix 1 – Update and provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consent to the processing of personal data", with entry into force on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25.5.2018, date of application of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On the contrary, the Authority rejects the company's objection according to which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELEPA is not a subject of the data legalized by no. 19
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 of Law 2472/1997 to file a complaint, nor is it included in the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. 80 GDPR non-profit bodies, organizations or associations that similarly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are legitimized in this regard, as the Authority legally conducts ex officio
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative controls and exercises the no. 58 GDPR its powers in the context of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25
 

of her duties, in accordance with Article 57 GDPR in conjunction with the provision of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 19 par. 1 item n. 2472/1997, taking cognizance of any information that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

falls within her grasp.

 

 

 

     

18.
 

From
 
 

the
 

attached
 

 

to
 

the
 

under no.
 

 

first
 

C/EI /365/18.01.2019 company memo, document "Appendix 1 - Update
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and providing consent to the processing of personal data by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS ACCOUNTING A.E."
 

 

 

 

(henceforth
 

"Appendix 1") for which it is pointed out that according to the statement of PWC BS you did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the companies of the PWC network use the same standard, it follows that:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
i.

With Appendix 1, as it is titled, the provision is requested
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent from the company's employees for data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their personal nature, and in some cases consent is requested under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the concept of "specific acceptance" of data transmission mentioned there
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outside of Greece or the more specific provision of "consent to control and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring by the Company of the means of communication and electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

equipment" that has been made available to the employees. Therefore, the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing has in this case chosen as the legal basis of processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of its employees as provided by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 6 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR ("providing consent").
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii.
 

With the same Appendix 1, it is requested by its signature from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers, the recognition on their part that the services provided by them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data to the company "[...] are directly linked to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

needs of the employment relationship and work organization, as well as that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Personal Data brought to the attention of the Company are relevant and appropriate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of the employment relationship and the organization of work...", i.e. the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance obligations of the controller to the governing authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the processing of personal data under no. 5 par. 2, 24 par. 1 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32 GDPR (principle of accountability) are incorrectly transferred and burdened
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects. On the contrary, it constitutes an obligation of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to choose for processing only those personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character are appropriate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26
 

purposes for which they are processed under no. 5 par. 1 sec. c'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR (data minimization principle).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii.
  

 the same Annex I is either explicitly referred to in a chapter entitled "cutting",
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or scattered within the text in chapters with titles that are inconsistent with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their content, that the processing of their personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of employees is aimed first, at the execution of the work contract,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secondly, in the fulfillment of the company's obligations arising from it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

labor, insurance, tax, customs, European and other legislation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and easier execution of the employment contract and thirdly, in achieving the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes of legitimate interests pursued by the company, among which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

including ascertaining and ensuring compliance of employees with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the obligations it undertakes with the contract, the taking of every measure in the context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising the right of management for the optimal organization of the business
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the regulation of the employee's behavior during the performance of the work
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of and order within exploitation (control and monitoring of means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication and electronic equipment).
 

 

 

 

 

 
19.

The Authority finds from the content of the above Appendix 1 that,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as a legal basis for processing under no. 6 par. 1 GDPR for the mentioned three
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) different purposes for processing personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of employees, the company applies that of consent no. 6 par. 1 sec.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 GDPR.
  

 

 

Also, from the submitted memoranda of the company before its hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the Authority it follows that quite contradictorily, parallel and acting in relation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mutual exclusion is invoked, on the one hand, the legal basis of consent,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the other hand, the execution of the contract, in order to justify the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

treatments. In fact, the company in its memorandum dated 18-01-2019 (ADDPH
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /365/18.01.2019) directly states that "2. [...] although it can be supported
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that consent is not necessary or necessary for the processing....we also asked
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the consent of our staff...Although possibly we could
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's proceed with the elasson (= their information, on the supporting basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employment contract between us), just in case, we suggest, if they agree,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to also give us their consent... if our employee does not grant it to us
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27
 

his consent or withdraws it after a holiday, will not suffer any consequences. but it will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proceed as normal, with only the undisputed and proven update
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of, as we have a legal basis for processing. 3. The legal basis for processing is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performance of our obligations from our employment contract, in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees are contracting parties (article 6 par. 1 para. b and c and 3 para. b of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR). Therefore, not giving consent or withdrawing it does not prevent us
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to proceed with the processing of the data of our personnel who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

related to the performance of our contractual work obligations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work".

       

 

Finally, the company, after the hearing from 28-02-2019, its memorandum to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority (ADDPH G/EI /1965/28.02.2019) declares that, ultimately, a unique legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and for the three (3) different purposes of processing personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given its personnel is the employment relationship and in particular the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fulfillment of the obligations arising from it (article 6 par. 1 para. b and c
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 3 para. b of the GDPR), that it additionally considered as a supplementary legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the consent, that she is absolutely willing to leave the specific one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis (i.e. of consent) and that it brings to the attention of the Authority, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replacement of Annex 1, new draft document with a single basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing the execution of the employment contract.
   

 

 

 

 

 

20.
 

From the content of Appendix I and from her above assumptions
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company it appears that PWC BS is processing personnel data illegally
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of its employees for the purposes mentioned by it, i.e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in violation of the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' case a' (beginning of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality) and par. 2 (principle of accountability) in combination with article 6 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR, as it applies an inappropriate legal basis (regarding cf. Decree 1847/2017,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 7) and especially that of article 6 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR (consent), instead of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate per case legal bases provided by the provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 6 par. 1 para. b', c' and f GDPR, subject to the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions.
  

 

The application of consent as a legal basis for the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data no. 6 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes stated by the company must be excluded, in accordance with what
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were extrapolated to the considerations under no. 9-16 hereof, because:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28
 

firstly, it does not mean giving valid and free consent for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data related to the provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work due to the power imbalance between employer and employee,
  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secondly, in the specific case, a condition for its application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent as a legal basis for processing is the previous exclusion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the legal bases of article 6 par. 1 sec. b', c' and in GDPR, a fact which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

does not occur, as the company recognizes (even if partially incorrectly as it will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be shown below) that "the legal basis for processing is the execution of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of our obligations from our employment contract, in which the employees are
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contracting parties (article 6 par. 1 para. b and c and 3 para. b of the GDPR)",
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thirdly, the choice of the appropriate legal basis under no. 6 par. 1 GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must correspond to the legal purpose of processing, so that in this case the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

three (3) processing purposes described by the company (employment contract,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal obligations, overriding legal interest) do not have a legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the legal basis of employee consent.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.
 

Furthermore, the company created the wrong impression on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees that it processes their personal data according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the legal basis of consent no. 6 par. 1 sec. 1 GDPR, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in reality it processes them with another legal basis, for which it never has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the employees were informed, in violation of the principle of transparency and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consequent upon violation of the obligation to inform according to article 13 par. 1 sec.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 and 14 par. 1 sec. 3 GDPR.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 it is noted that the wrong choice of the company to apply to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case the legal basis of the consent also arises from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that, on the one hand, it did not include in Appendix 1 the article 13 par. 2 sec. c'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 14 par. 2 sec. d'GDPR information to data subjects about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring fair and transparent processing and that they are entitled to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

revoke their consent at any time, as expressly provided in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 7 par. 3 GDPR. On the other hand, to a question from the Authority, the company replied that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case "[...] not giving consent or withdrawing it does not prevent us from
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proceed with the processing of our personnel data related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the performance of our work obligations from the employment contract". From
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29
 

elements of the case file and the hearing procedure it emerged that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

statement included in Appendix 1 to the employees about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the legal basis of consent was misleading and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responding to reality, depriving them of the possibility to exercise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their legal rights, resulting in the misleading creation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impression on the employees that the legal basis of data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature was that of consent, as well as that they have one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

series of rights from the use of the legal basis in question, such as e.g. that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are entitled to withdraw their consent at any time (see article 13
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 sec. c GDPR), which henceforth implies the cessation of processing or that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are entitled to the deletion of their personal data from now on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stop processing for the future. Such a misleading statement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of employees' personal data as well as h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the processing itself becomes, therefore, no longer lawful according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extrapolated, also unfair and opaque, in violation of the principles of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 par. 1 sec. a' para. b' and c' GDPR (objectivity and transparency) in combination
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the violation of the individual information obligations that fall on him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller to ensure fair and transparent processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by no. 13 and 14 GDPR.

 

 

 

 

 

    

Finally, the company put forward the claim that the application of the legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the consent was supplementary - auxiliary and that "[...] faced with
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the (yet) new and specialized law of personal data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, we adopted a conservative approach and, looking to the maximum
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possible security for us, but also in order not to risk or even to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered that we might be infringing on the right of our tenant, we also requested the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of our staff" (prot. no. APDPX 365/18-01-2019).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition to what was mentioned above, it should be additionally highlighted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that, in case the data controller has doubts about the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of the processing, must in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR and in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR and the obligation of accountability against
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 2 of the same article, to remove them before processing or to refrain
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from processing to clearing doubts.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30
 

Therefore, the company's invocation of the allegation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the "supplementary-subsidiary" legal basis of consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to the "(still) new and specialized data protection law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature", on the one hand, does not find support in the provisions and the spirit
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the GDPR, on the other hand, demonstrates that the company doubted its choice
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate legal basis under no. 6 para. 1 GDPR and tried to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protect itself (and) from any violation of its provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR ("we adopted a conservative approach and, aiming at the maximum possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our assurance") choosing a second legal basis. However, the doubt about
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of the processing, the company should have removed it with its choice
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate legal basis per category of processing or by refraining from it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing and not with
 

 

 

 

her
 

(cited by
 

 

her
 

same)
 

application
 

"supplementary-auxiliary" basis, for which, in any case, never
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the employees were informed.
  

 

 

For the reasons stated above, the claim should be rejected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the company regarding the application of the consent as allegedly "ancillary

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

additional" legal basis of processing.
 

 

 

 

 
22.

 
As stated above (see above par. 18, iii), the processing of the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal nature of the employees by the company aims to execute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the employment contract, in the fulfillment of its legal obligations and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in achieving its legitimate interests. The company following its new statement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intends to apply as an appropriate legal basis for achieving the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

three (3) processing purposes that of article 6 par. 1 sec. II GDPR, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must additionally apply the corresponding ones (for processing purposes)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided legal bases of article 6 par. 1 sec. c' and GDPR, if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the individual application conditions of each one are met.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thus, the processing of personal data of employees for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fulfillment of the company's obligations arising from labor,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance, tax, customs, European and other legislation is carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the legal basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. c GDPR, while the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of exercising the managerial right for its optimal organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

business, including the control of the means of communication and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31
 

equipment, may be carried out in accordance with the legal basis of article 6 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 pc. in the GDPR, as long as the conditions of the regulation in question are met and with
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on specific procedures and guarantees (see APDPX 34/2018).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, PWC BS does not legally process personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of its employees for the purposes mentioned by it, i.e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in violation of the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2 (beginning of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability) in combination with article 6 par. 1 GDPR, as it partially applies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inappropriate legal basis, namely that of article 6 par. 1 sec. 2nd GDPR (execution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contract), instead of the appropriate legal bases provided for each case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the provisions of article 6 par. 1 c) and GDPR.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23. The company processes, in violation of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extrapolated, the personal data of its employees, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are created by the use of communication media and electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

equipment owned by it, in the cases where they have been granted. From
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix 1 shows that the company requested the consent of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees, in order to control and monitor them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aforementioned means of communication and electronic equipment. Also, from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the impact assessment report (DPIA) submitted by the company for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Splunck Logging” service results that exclusive legal basis of processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the personal data of its employees for the control of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means of communication and electronic equipment requires consent (p. 7).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently and based on its reminders, the company is renovating
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stating that it does not "monitor" the communications of its staff;
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone or electronic and that it was a "verbal failure" which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corrected in the draft statement to replace Annex 1.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In support of the allegation of non-monitoring of his communications
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its staff, the company provided information about the software and systems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which it uses to protect the organization's information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corporate network, media, etc. and presented relevant policies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security.
  

The Authority has detailed the conditions, procedures and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guarantees of control of the means of communication and electronic equipment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32
 

employed by the employer under no. 34/2018 decision, in the context
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of which he considered that among the conditions for lawful processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data includes the preparation and application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

internal regulation for the correct use and operation of the equipment and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IT and communications network, indeed quoting a minimum
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

content thereof (policies, etc.).
  

 

 

 

The company presented a relevant Policy, which although does not respond
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fully in the content of no. 34/2018 of the Authority's decision, covers basic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its requirements, although not in detail. The Authority already considered that the processing in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was unlawful, unlawful and non-transparent in violation of article 5 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ed. 1 GDPR, so as to avoid further monitoring of compliance with the principles of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 par. 1 GDPR.
 

 

 

 

Furthermore, from the evidence presented to the Authority, it did not appear that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company has placed electronic and other means under general technical surveillance
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication and consequently the communications of the employees and accepts
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company's claim that its use of the phrase "monitoring
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of communication media and electronic equipment" did not correspond to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

state of affairs and it was a wrong choice.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.
 

The Authority with from 3.12.2018 and with no. prot. C/EX/9678 document to
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company PwC BS, requested that the relevant internal document be brought to its attention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documentation no. 5 par. 2, 24 and 32 GDPR (principle of accountability), on the basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of which the company concluded to apply consent, as a legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the processing of personal data of employees, under no. 6 par. 1 sec. a'
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR, in view of the provisions to the contrary included in from 10-7-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Her memo, where she spoke of legal data processing for purposes that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are related to the execution of the employment contract, i.e. with another legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

base.
  

 

The company never provided relevant written internal documentation,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nor did she explain in her memos (without this replacing the obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability or to remedy the relevant misconduct) the reasons why,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to achieve the processing purposes mentioned by the same, applied according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in principle the legal basis of consent (article 6 par. 1 sec. a GDPR) and in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33
 

then he declared that he intends to abandon it and apply only it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis for the execution of the contract (article 6 par. 1 sec. b GDPR), while, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

already ruled by the Authority above, their legal bases are also applicable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of articles 6 par. 1 sec. c and GDPR, subject to individual conditions. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company owed in the context of internal compliance, before its start
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, to examine compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

combination with the legal bases of article 6 par. 1 GDPR and if it considered that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the conditions for their application were met, to choose the appropriate legal ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bases for the respective processing purposes. Given that the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chose the legal basis of consent, it was due in accordance with the above (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par.14) to have previously examined and excluded the application of the others
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal bases, documenting the relevant reasons for this choice,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so that the Authority can check the correctness of this choice.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, the company, in this respect, violated the principle of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, as mentioned in no. 18 ii paragraph hereof the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carried and burdened the workers with the obligation of accountability, with which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

she herself was charged in that case, in violation of Article 5
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 GDPR. In particular, the company asked the employees to sign
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in Annex I that they "recognize":
 

   

 

 

first, that the collection of their personal data is done "for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes directly related to the needs of the employment relationship and organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of work", while she herself should have determined by herself and independently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whether or not employees "recognize" the legitimacy of the purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing and not to shift the relative burden to the data subjects.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secondly, that the personal data that they "considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Company are relevant and appropriate in the context of the employment relationship and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization of work...", while she herself had to choose to be processed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alone and regardless of "recognition" by employees or not,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only those personal data that are appropriate, relevant and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, in the context of the application of the principle of proportionality, under no. 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 sec. c GDPR (data minimization principle). Besides, the
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects do not usually have special interpretation knowledge and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34
 

application of the provisions of the GDPR, in order to judge whether the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of relevant data is in accordance with the principle of their minimization.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In this way, the company shifted the burden of accountability towards it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the principle of data minimization to the subjects, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

she herself had to in the context of internal organization and compliance to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assess on its own which personal data is relevant and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suitable for the intended legal purpose of processing, given that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company requests from the employees the information (data) it needs
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to achieve its goals. otherwise, the employees will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided any information (data) they wanted or even none
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

element (given).
  

 

In view of the above and combined with the company's statement in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hearing of her memorandum to the Authority according to which: "[...] faced with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the (yet) new and specialized law of personal data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, we adopted a conservative approach and, looking to the maximum
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possible security for us, but also in order not to risk or even to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered that we might be infringing on the right of our tenant, we also requested the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of our staff" (prot. no. ADPPH 365/18-01-2019), it follows that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company wrongly considered that with the signature of the subjects
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given the provisions included in Annex I "is exempted
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any responsibility", at the moment when, in fact, the workers do not have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

usually, as mentioned above, the special knowledge in order to proceed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality control of compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR, with which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is borne by no. 5 para. 2 GDPR the data controller. Therefore, the company
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and in this case, he violated the principle of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Finally, the company with the choice of inappropriate legal bases of processing
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by no. 6 par. 1 GDPR (initially consent and then execution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the contract for all processing purposes) violated the provision of Article 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 its obligation to observe and prove its compliance with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 1 of the same article (principle of accountability).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

25. In view of the above, the Authority considers that the company PWC BS as responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Processing:
  

 

35
 

i.
 

submitted to unlawful processing in violation of its provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 5 par. 1 sec. a' para. a' GDPR their personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its employees, as it initially applied the inappropriate legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of consent and subsequently its inappropriate (partly) legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

execution of the contract and for the three (3) processing purposes.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii.
 

submitted in an unfair and non-transparent manner in violation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' c. b' and c' GDPR the personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of its employees, as it created the wrong impression on them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that it processes them in accordance with the legal basis of consent no. 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 sec. 1 GDPR, while in reality it was processed by another law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis, about which the employees were never informed, in violation of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation
  

iii.
 

as controller although he bore the responsibility, he was not able to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

comply with and demonstrate compliance with paragraph 1 of article 5 GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the extrapolations under i and ii and violated the provision of
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provision of article 5 par. 2 GDPR principle of accountability, transferring the burden
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of proof of compliance to data subjects in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extrapolated to under no. 18 ii consideration of the present.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26. Given that the Authority found the illegal processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of the data subjects due to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation of the principles of personal data processing which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are provided for by the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2 GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is no need to examine the remaining principles of the same article (paragraphs b' to f') as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the control of any other subsequent processing operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

collection (e.g. transmission of personal data outside Greece).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27.
 

 in accordance with the GDPR (Ref. c. 148) in order to strengthen the enforcement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the rules of this Regulation, sanctions, including
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative fines, should be imposed for any violation of this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulation, in addition to or instead of the appropriate measures imposed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervisory authority in accordance with this Regulation. and cases of violation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36
 

of minor importance or whether the fine which may be imposed would constitute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disproportionate burden on a natural person, a reprimand could be imposed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

instead of a fine.
  

 

The Authority after establishing the violation of the provisions of GDPR v
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the extrapolated, taking into account in addition, in addition to the above, in particular:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i. The Guidelines for the implementation and determination of administrative
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 issued on 03-10-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 by Article 29 Working Party (WP 253)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. The request C(2003) 1422 of the European Commission of 6-5-2003 "regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the definition of very small, small and medium enterprises" and in particular the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 2 par. 1 thereof, according to which the numerical limit for the inclusion of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of large enterprises is that of 250 employees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

and having duly taken into account the provisions of Article 83 GDPR to the extent that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are applied in the specific case and in particular those of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

criteria provided by paragraph 2 of the same article concern the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific case examined by the Authority:
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement, taking into account
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the nature, extent or purpose of the relevant processing, as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of data subjects affected by the breach and the degree
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of damage suffered and specifically:
 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the company violated the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. 1 GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

principles of legality, objectivity and transparency as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation (principle) of accountability by no. 5 para. 2 GDPR, i.e. violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fundamental principles of the GDPR for the protection of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character.

   

the fact that the observance of the principles provided by its provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2 GDPR are of fundamental importance,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

primarily, the principle of legality, so that if it is missing it can be restored
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the beginning the processing is illegal, even if the others have been observed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing principles. Similarly, its principle becomes of capital importance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability under the new compliance model introduced with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

37
 

 
i.

 
ii.

 

GDPR, where the burden of compliance and the relevant responsibility rests with him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data controller, who has been provided by the GDPR with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary compliance tools. The violation of the principle of accountability
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case it basically consists in the fact that the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing failed to comply with the mandates of the authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of article 5 par. 1 sec. 1 GDPR and in particular did not document,
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of internal compliance, the reasons for choosing the law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

base by no. 6 par. 1 GDPR as appropriate for achieving the purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, while being unable to respond to a relevant request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the beginning. Moreover, the principle of accountability in the measure was violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in which the controller charged the subjects of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data with the relevant task, in order to consent that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was observed under no. 5 par. 1 sec. c' GDPR principle of minimization of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data. It should be noted that the Authority attaches particular importance to art
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in that the controller did not present any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proof of internal compliance, from which the previous one can be derived
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, documentation of the choice of the appropriate, according to him,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal basis under no. 6 par. 1 sec. 1 GDPR. Proof of internal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documentation of compliance does not constitute the latter in this case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

providing explanations through a memorandum to the Authority in its context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant administrative control, where it was certainly not included
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accountability, but argumentation justifying the relevant choice, neither
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

however, it cures the violation of the principle of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the violation of the above principles took place on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data of subjects in the field of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

labor relations, where it is characterized by an imbalance of power between
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employer and employees. The importance attributed by the GDPR to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data in employment relationships
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is demonstrated by the fact that it is provided under article 88 of this to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

national legislator the possibility of establishing special rules, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure the protection of their rights and freedoms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers, including appropriate and special measures for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safeguarding human dignity, legitimate interests and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38
 

 
iii.

 

fundamental rights of the person to whom the data refer,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with
 

special emphasis on transparency of processing, transmission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data within the group and the monitoring systems in the field
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work. Therefore, the observance of the principles provided by article 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 sec. a' and para. 2 GDPR acquires in this case a special and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

weighty importance for the respect of the right to the protection of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of employees.
  

 

 

 

 

the fact that the violation of the above principles is subject according to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of article 83 par. 5 sec. a' GDPR in cases of enforcement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative fines up to EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of businesses,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

up to 4% of its total global annual turnover
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previous financial year, whichever is higher,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.e. in the highest foreseen category of the grading system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative fines, the imposition of which is reserved respectively,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by application of the principle of proportionality, in the case of the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

serious violations of the GDPR. Therefore, already from its settings
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR it follows that the violation of the principles provided by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2 GDPR is treated as the older one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

severity in relation to the violations provided for by article 83
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 4 GDPR.
  

 

 

the fact of causing damage to the right to data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
iv.

 
v.

personal nature of the subjects from the violation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aforementioned principles and in particular first, the violation thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR processing of personal data and secondly, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

misleading impression created by the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to employees that the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character concerning them takes place with its legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent. The incorrect application of the legal basis of consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and misleading information about workers' rights
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the legal basis of consent it resulted in their deprivation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights and exercising control over personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their character, provided for by the provisions of articles 7 par. 3,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

39
 

13, 14, 17 and 18 GDPR (see Petition No. 75 GDPR and OE 29 for the administrative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fines, ibid., p. 11).
  

 

 

 

The fact that, from the data brought to the Authority's attention, did not emerge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the occurrence of material damage to the data subjects – employees,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such as e.g. the dismissal of an employee due to non-performance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consent to the processing of his personal data.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

the fact that the three (3) purposes of processing personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of the employees were described by the company as compatible with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the relevant and intended goals from the processing, without n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority to enter into the relevant legality check, in accordance with what
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were set forth in paragraph 26 hereof.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The fact that the selection of the respective, towards the three (3) purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, legal bases of article 6 par. 1 GDPR did not present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

some difficulty, as it did not involve a complex or controversial issue,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the moment when, indeed, both the Authority with the under no. 115/2001
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its directive, but also by posting relevant information on the website
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 16, as well as the Article 29 Working Group in a series of Opinions and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its Guidelines mentioned above, have been dealt with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the issue of consent in the field of labor relations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the data controller was aware of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of OE29 Guidelines on consent, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in his memos to the Authority, referring selectively
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in different and unrelated sections, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

argue in favor of the correctness of the choice of its legal basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consent, but formulating conclusions different from them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arising from the same Guidelines.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the violation of the above principles started on 25-5-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
vi.

 
vii.

 
viii.

 
ix.

and continues to this day, as, yes, the company with the after-hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In her memorandum (under prot. no. APDPX 1565/28.02.2019) she expressed the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
16 About
"working
 
 
http://www.dpa.gr/portal/page?_pageid=33,125875&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL
 

thematic
 

unity
 

 
her

 
see

relationships"

   

 

 

40
 

its intention to abandon the legal basis of consent and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

henceforth applies the legal basis of the execution of the employment contract and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the three (3) processing purposes, except, on the one hand, he did not inform
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Authority in the end if it made the above change, on the other hand, even
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the application of the legal basis of the execution of the employment contract does not
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is suitable for all intended treatments, as already judged
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from beginning.
  

 

 

the fact that the violation of the principles of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR did not concern, based on the information brought to the attention of the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of articles 9 and 10 GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the violation of the principles of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR concerned personal data generated by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of electronic means of communication and therefore it concerns the right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to privacy of personal data in the field of electronics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communications and therefore concerns the core of the relevant individual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right.
 

the fact that the violation of the principles of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in conjunction with Article 6 para. 1 GDPR concerned the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of 485 employees and therefore especially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

large number, as follows from article 2 par. 1 of the petition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C(2003) 1422 of the European Commission of 6-5-2003 "regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to which the numerical limit for the inclusion of enterprises
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in large ones it is that of 250 employees. The same limit has been taken
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taken into account in the context of the implementation of the obligations of article 30 par. 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR (see also Petition No. 13).
  

 

 

 

 

 

The fact that the violation of the principles of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in combination with article 6 par. 1 GDPR it concerned almost all of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personnel for the entire duration of the provision of their work, so that they do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is about an isolated or opportunistic breach of responsibility
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of some of the employees, but for a violation that is systemic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(structural) nature, as it concerns the controller's policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in relation to the legal basis of the processing.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

41
 

 
x.

 
xi.

 
xii.

 
xiii.

 



b) the fraud or negligence that caused the breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

From the memos of the controller it appears that the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

knew that he had to apply the legal basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. II GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(execution of an employment contract), but it qualified the application of the law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of article 6 par. 1 sec. a' GDPR (consent) for the one purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing. As for the other two (2) processing purposes, the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applies anyway to date inappropriate legal basis, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extrapolated.
 

In addition, the company put forward the already rejected claim that the
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the legal basis of consent was complementary -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subsidiary and that "[...] faced with the (still) new and specialized law of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of personal data, we adopted a conservative approach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and, with a view to our maximum security, but also in order not to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

don't even risk being thought to be infringing on a right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our employee, we also asked for the consent of our staff" (prot. no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

365/18-01-2019).
 

Although the company's processing of the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal nature of its employees violated the principle of fairness or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fair processing in a non-transparent manner, in accordance with what was stated above, the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finds that the violations did not take place out of malice, but, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above statement of the company, were the result of insufficient knowledge and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the provisions of the GDPR in the context of the internal organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance, despite the fact that the controller could and should, in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to the obligation of accountability, to comply with the provisions of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thereby breaching the duty of care required by law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c) any actions taken by the controller to
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mitigate the damage suffered by the data subjects
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The data controller, following his dispatch by hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

His memo to the Authority, with which he essentially admits the violation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42
 

of the GDPR by choosing the wrong legal basis, did not do anything
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

action in order to restore the relationship of trust with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees, in accordance with the principle of their fair or fair processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their personal data in a transparent manner, such as e.g. informing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them for the most correct legal basis of processing that applies, for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actual rights they have under the GDPR, for not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"monitors the means of communication and their electronic equipment" and that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was a bad choice of words.

 

 

 

 

 

      

d) regarding any relevant previous violations of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, it appears from a relevant check that it has not been enforced to date
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative sanction from the Authority
  

 

 

 

 

e) regarding the degree of cooperation with the Authority for its remediation
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation and the limitation of its possible adverse effects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, in the context of examining the case, asked the company to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sends her the relevant written internal documentation, within the framework of the principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of accountability, from which the pre-processing documentation would result
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of choosing the appropriate, according to the same, legal basis under no. 6 par. 1 sec. a'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR. The company never responded to the Authority's request, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notably, it took place in the context of the exercise of its auditing powers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, as a document of internal documentation of compliance is not understood in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case, the subsequent provision of explanations through a memorandum to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of the relevant administrative control, it was certainly not included either
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relative accountability, but argumentation justifying the relative choice.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, the company not responding to the above request of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

demonstrated an intent to cooperate at that point in time by infringing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the same time as stated, the duty of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

 

On the contrary, in the post-hearing memorandum of the company to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its intention to abandon the legal basis of consent was expressed and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to henceforth apply the legal basis of the execution of the employment contract and for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the three (3) processing purposes, except, on the one hand, he did not inform the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if he finally made the above change, on the other hand, even its implementation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43
 

legal basis of the performance of the employment contract is not suitable for all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the intended processing, as already decided by the Authority. in any case,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Authority assesses as a mitigating circumstance the intention of the company to
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cooperate in the post-hearing phase and remedy the violations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to which he fell.
 

 

 

 

f)

   

the categories of personal data it affects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation and especially that it is not their personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of articles 9 and 10 GDPR, according to the information brought to the attention of the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g) the way in which the supervisory authority was informed of the violation,
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in particular if and to what extent the data controller or the person performing it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing reported the violation
  

 

 

 

 

 in this case, the Authority was informed of the final ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

established violations following a complaint by a third party, with the result that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carry out an ex officio audit.
  

 

 

the)
 

any other aggravating or mitigating factor resulting from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

circumstances of the specific case, such as the financial benefits that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accrued or damages avoided, directly or indirectly, by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation
 

 

The Authority, in addition to the above, recognizes as an additional mitigating factor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that from the elements that were brought to her attention and based on which she found her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

breach of the GDPR, the controller did not obtain a financial benefit,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nor did it cause material damage to the workers.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BEGINNING
 

 

After taking into account the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Because he decided the case no. 58 par. 2 GDPR exercise of its corrections
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

powers in the specific case by imposing corrective measures
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44
 

Because pursuant to the provision of article 58 par. 2 sec. d' GDPR the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decided to instruct the company "PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BUSINESS SOLUTIONS LEGAL COMPANY OF BUSINESS PROCESS
 

 

 

 

 

 

K I
 

ACCOUNTING
 

SERVICES
 

A.E"
 

with
 

distinctive
 

title
 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS .E." (…) as responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to make the processing operations of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character of its employees, as described in the submitted by itself
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annex I, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Because in particular the company should restore the correct application of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a' and par. 2 in combination with article 6 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR in accordance with what is contained in the reasoning herein.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Because in particular the company will then have to restore the correct one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of the other provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. b-f GDPR, to the extent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the identified violation affects the internal organization and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance with the provisions of the GDPR, taking all necessary measures to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

framework of the principle of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

Because the above order should be executed within three (3) months from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receipt of this, informing the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

Because the above corrective measure is not sufficient by itself for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

restoration of compliance with the violated provisions of the GDPR, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

moment in which indeed the company in spite of its part in essence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

admission of the violation of the GDPR by him from 28-02-2019 with a hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its memorandum to the Authority (prot. no. APDPX/G/EI /1565/28.02.2019), while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stated that it intended to abandon the legal basis of consent, it did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acted to date by informing the Authority.
 

 

 

 

 

 

Because the Authority considers that in this particular case, based on the circumstances that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were found, should apply the provision of article 58 par. 2 sec. i'll
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR to be imposed additionally and effective, proportional and deterrent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

45
 

administrative fine under no. 83 GDPR, both for its restoration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance, as well as for the punishment of this illegal behavior17.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Because the violation of the provisions of articles 5 and 6 found by the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR falls under the provisions of article 83 par. 5 sec. 1 GDPR on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases of imposition of administrative fines up to EUR 20,000,000 or, in case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

companies, up to 4% of its total global annual turnover
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previous financial year, whichever is higher.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Because the Authority also took into account the published financial statements
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

statements of the company for the period from 01-7-2017 to 20-6-2018,
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to which its net turnover amounted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

41,936,426.00 euros.
 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

A.
 

He gives an order to the company "PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS
 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BEGINNING
  

 

SOLUTIONS REGISTERED COMPANY OF BUSINESS PROCESS K I
 

 

 

 

 

 

ACCOUNTING
 

SERVICES
 

A.E"
 

with
 

distinctive
 

title
 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS .E." (…) as in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

three (3) months from the receipt of this notice, informing the Authority:
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i. to make the data processing operations personal
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its employees, as described in the Annex submitted by the same
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. to restore the correct application of the provisions of article 5 par. 1 sec. a'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and par. 2 in combination with article 6 par. 1 GDPR in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

included in the reasoning of the present,
 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
17 See OE 29, Guidelines and the application and determination of administrative fines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 WP253, p. 6
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46
 

iii. to also restore the correct application of the other provisions of article 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 sec. b-f GDPR to the extent that the identified violation affects it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

internal organization and compliance with the provisions of the GDPR by taking
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any necessary measure within the framework of the principle of accountability.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.
 

It imposes on the company "PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS
 

 

 

 

 

SOLUTIONS REGISTERED COMPANY OF BUSINESS PROCESS K I
 

 

 

 

 

 

ACCOUNTING
 

SERVICES
 

A.E"
 

with
 

distinctive
 

title
 

"PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS .E."
 

 

 

 

(…)
 

the
 

effective, proportionate and dissuasive administrative fine that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suits the specific case according to its special circumstances,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand (150,000.00) euros.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

           

 

The Deputy President

 

 

    

              

    

The Secretary
  

 

George Batzalexis
   

 

 

                  

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

47
 

