 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, October 12, 2018

 

press release

 

Implement GDPR and ePrivacy-VO on websites:

250 practical answers plus compact checklists

published in paperback

 

Employees of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) have

300-page paperback describes the new requirements for

data protection summarized on websites. In it, website operators will find the

most important aspects of the already applicable General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

as well as the upcoming ePrivacy Regulation (ePrivacy-VO) in a compact form.

 

 

Although a few months have now passed, the GDPR always worries most companies

still cause a lot of fuss: Some of those responsible still do not know which specifications are relevant and how they are

to be implemented in their own company. False reports and the fear of fines in the millions

contributed to the general insecurity. Especially in the online area, there are still some companies

Uncertainty about which measures are to be implemented in concrete terms.

 

However, designing websites in compliance with data protection regulations should not be rocket science, but should be implemented with the right tips.

can be implemented easily and without too great a cost. With this objective in mind, three employees of the

BayLDA a book in which you can read without lengthy explanations, complicated legal derivations or technical

sches technical jargon take up and answer the 250 most common questions from everyday life. practical tips for

fold implementation and checklists are intended to help the readers to implement them on their own

give site.

 

The book is therefore primarily aimed at webmasters, developers and designers, bloggers, data protection

trage, managing directors, club directors, students, employees from IT and marketing as well as everyone else who

deal with websites and target users within the EU. It primarily contains the new data

protection requirements of the DS-GVO and prepares for the upcoming changes through the ePrivacy-VO.

 

In addition to a basic chapter on essential data protection elements on the web, topics in particular

such as privacy policy, contact form, tracking, security, newsletter, social media, online shop and

Content management systems covered. At the end of the book the reader will find a sample data protection

explanation as well as a template for a so-called "consent banner" that shows how the consent for services

obtain consent from website users.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

 

- 2 -

 

Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA: “In the past few months we have noticed that there is still a

There is great uncertainty among website operators when it comes to the subject of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Many operators were only shaken awake by May 25th, 2018 and then realized that the specifications of the

new data protection law must also be taken into account for one's own website. How to overcome the legal hurdles

can be mastered without too much effort, the book shows in a way that is also easy for data protection beginners to

physical form."

 

The publication is available as a paperback under the title "Implement GDPR and ePrivacy-VO on websites:

250 practical answers plus compact checklists from data protection experts” available:
https://www.amazon.de/DSGVO-ePrivacy-VO-Websites-umsetz-Datenschutzexperten/dp/1720199477
(external link to Amazon)
 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

 

A notice:

 

The book is a private publication of the authors and not a publication of the Bavarian

schen state office for data protection supervision.

