 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  4/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of  the  United Kingdom regarding  the 
approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 29 January 2020 

 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX (Section 0 of the draft additional accreditation requirements).......................... 6 

2.2.2 
GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4  of  the  draft  additional 
accreditation requirements) .......................................................................................................... 6 

RESOURCE  REQUIREMENTS 

2.2.3 
(Section  6  of  the  draft  additional  accreditation 
requirements)................................................................................................................................. 7 

2.2.4 
PROCESS  REQUIREMENTS,  ARTICLE  43(2)(C),(D)  (Section  7  of  the  draft  additional 
accreditation requirements) .......................................................................................................... 7 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks ................................................................................................................................. 9 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to Article 51 (1b) of Directive 2016/680 EU on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, 
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and 
on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Council  Framework  Decision  2008/977/JHA 
(hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”).  

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the  consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

 (3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism, this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

                                                           

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the  supervisory authority  should establish accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 
limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of  the  Chair,  this period may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

The  UK  SA  has submitted  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  under  Article  43 (1)(b)  to the EDPB. 
Following  a  decision  deeming  the  file  complete,  it  was  broadcasted  on  25  October  2019.  The  UK 
national accreditation body (NAB), UKAS, will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the SA, once they are approved by the SA, following an opinion from the Board 
on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

3. 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 

                                                           

2 Para. 39 Guidelines:  
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201804_v3.0_accreditationcertificationb
odies_annex1_en.pdf 

4 

Adopted 

body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the UK SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation.  

This assessment of UK SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions or deletions) from the Guidelines and notably the Annex. Furthermore, the EDPB’s Opinion 
is also focused on all aspects that may impact on a consistent approach regarding the accreditation of 
certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the  SAs  while  defining  their  accreditation  requirements.  The  guidelines  Annex does  not  constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application  and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore  it  will not make  reference  to the text  of the  related  document  in this Opinion.  As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines. Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the UK SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and is not asking the UK SA to 
take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the UK SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a. 

 addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 
any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

Adopted 

5 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board shall issue  an  opinion where  a  supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX (Section 0 of the draft additional accreditation requirements) 

11. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation, regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

12. 

The Board takes note of the fact that the UK SA is putting in place such terms of cooperation with its 
NAB and that said terms will be made available on the website of the UK SA once finalised. 

2.2.2  GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4  of  the  draft  additional 

accreditation requirements) 

13.  Concerning the requirement of legal responsibility (subsection 4.1.1), the Board takes note of the fact 
that the UK SA requires that the Certification Body (CB) being accredited “should be able to provide 
evidence of compliance as required during the accreditation process” with the GDPR and the UK Data 
Protection  Act  2018.  In  order  to  ensure  an  adequate  assessment  and  implementation  of  this 

6 

Adopted 

requirement, the Board encourages the UK SA to replace “should be able to provide evidence“ by “shall 
provide evidence”. Therefore, the Board recommends that the UK SA amends the draft accordingly.   

14.  Concerning the certification agreement (subsection 4.1.2) and, in particular, requirement number 8, 
(number 9 in the Annex) the Board takes note of the fact that the UK SA created a reworded version 
of part of the  requirement foreseen in Annex 1 of the  Guidelines. The UK SA, however, omitted a 
reference to [where applicable] “the consequences for the customer should also be addressed”. The 
Board therefore recommends the UK SA to add the missing part of the requirement mentioned above.  

15.  Concerning the use of data protection seals and marks (subsection 4.1.3), the Board notes  that the 
UK SA requests that a copy “of the seal/mark/logo should be provided to the ICO for their records.” 
Given  that  seals,  marks  and  logos  are  handled  not  only  by  the  certification  body,  but  also  by  the 
scheme owner, the Board encourages the UK SA to  refer also to any seals, marks and logos foreseen 
in any UK SA-approved certification schemes.   

2.2.3  RESOURCE  REQUIREMENTS 

(Section  6  of  the  draft  additional  accreditation 

requirements) 

16.  Concerning certification body personnel (subsection 6.1) and, in particular, point 6, the Board takes 
note of the fact that the UK  SA has foreseen that “Personnel responsible for certification decisions 
must  have  significant  professional  experience  in  identifying  and  implementing  data  protection 
measures”. However, the Board considers that, while personnel making certification decisions may 
not  have  experience  in  “significant  professional  experience  in  identifying  and  implementing  data 
protection measures” themselves, they should at least have access to someone with that expertise in 
order  to  make  an  informed  decision.  Significant  professional  experience  in  implementing  such 
measures, at least in the early stages, would probably not be so widespread in this sector. Therefore, 
the  Board  encourages  the  UK  SA  to  require  that  the  certification  body  defines  and  explains  the 
professional experience requirement which are appropriate to the certification scheme.. 

 

2.2.4  PROCESS  REQUIREMENTS,  ARTICLE  43(2)(C),(D)  (Section  7  of  the  draft  additional 

accreditation requirements) 

17.  Concerning  the  general  subsection  on  process  requirements  (subsection  7.1)  and,  in  particular, 
paragraph 4, the Board takes note of the additional requirement for an accreditation body to ensure 
that the certification body carries out an investigation  or audit  in cases where the  data protection 
compliance  is  brought  into  question.  The  Board  understands  that  the  data  protection  compliance 
refers  to  the  certification  holder.  However,  this  should  be  clearly  specified  in  the  requirements. 
Moreover, the Board considers that the UK SA should detail that such investigation should be linked 
with the scope of certification and the target of evaluation. Therefore, the Board recommends that 
the UK SA amends its requirement accordingly, by stating clearly that the data protection compliance 
refers to the certification holder and by specifying that the investigation should be linked with the 
scope of certification and the target of evaluation. 

18.  Concerning the application of process requirements (subsection 7.2), the Board takes note of the need 
for  a  certification  body  to  specify  “whether  processors  are  used,  and  when  processors  are  the 
applicant,  their  responsibilities  and  tasks  shall  be  described,  and  the  application  shall  contain  the 
relevant controller / processor contract(s).” While acknowledging that the UK SA has used the wording 

7 

Adopted 

of Annex 1, the Board encourages the UK SA to consider whether a reference to joint controllers and 
their specific arrangements should also be mentioned in this case. 

19.  Concerning evaluation methods (subsection 7.4), the Board takes note of the additional requirement 
foreseen by the UK SA requiring that, “In addition to item 7.4.5 of ISO17065, it shall be provided that 
existing certification, which relates to the same object of certification, may be taken into account as 
part of a new evaluation […]”. In this respect, the Board considers that it is necessary to further clarify 
that, in cases where existing certification is taken into account as part of a new evaluation, the scope 
of said certification should also be assessed  in detail in respect of its compliance with the  relevant 
certification criteria. Therefore, the Board encourages the UK SA to clarify the wording accordingly.  

20.  Concerning the sentence “The complete evaluation report or information enabling an evaluation of 
the previous certification activity and its results can be considered.” the Board recommends to the UK 
SA that “can” is replaced by “shall” where the certification body decides to take into account existing 
certification. In addition, the Board considers that it would be clearer to refer simply to “certification” 
rather  than  “certification  activity”  and  recommends  the  UK  SA  to  amend  the  draft  accordingly. 
Moreover, the reference to the “previous certification” could be misleading, since it does not clearly 
refer to the existing certification the certification body wants to take into account as part of its own 
evaluation.  The  Board  encourages  the  UK  SA  to  change  the  wording,  in  order  to  clarify  that  the 
reference is to the existing certification. Finally, the Board notes that the certification body should be 
able to access the evaluation report and any other relevant information enabling an evaluation of the 
certification activity, in order to be able to take an informed decision. Therefore, the Board encourages 
the UK SA to clarify the wording accordingly.  

21. 

Furthermore,  in  the  paragraph  starting  with  “in  addition  to  item  7.4.6  of  ISO  17065”,  the  Board 
considers  that,  where  the  UK  SA  refers  to  “its  certification  mechanism”,  it  actually  meant  “the 
certification scheme”. Therefore, it recommends to the UK SA to replace the wording accordingly.  

22.  Regarding  the  changes  affecting  certification  (subsection  7.10)  and,  in  particular,  the  fourth  bullet 
point (“decisions of the European Data Protection Board”) the Board acknowledges that the UK SA has 
used the wording foreseen in Annex 1. However, in order to ensure a clear understanding of what is 
meant  by  “decisions of  the  European Data  Protection  Board”, the  Board  encourages  the  UK  SA  to 
clarify the reference. An example could be  to refer to “documents adopted by the European Data 
Protection Board”.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

23. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the  United Kingdom  Supervisory Authority may lead to an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

24.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’ the Board recommends that the UK SA:  

1.  replaces, in subsection 4.1.1, the sentence “should be able to provide evidence” by “shall be 

able to provide evidence”.  

2. 

includes in subsection 4.1.2 the missing part of the requirement, to align it with the text of 
the Annex 1 of the Guidelines. 

Adopted 

8 

25.  Regarding ‘process requirements’ the Board recommends that the UK SA:  

1.  amends subsection 7.1. in order to make clear that the data protection compliance refers to 
the  certification  holder  and  that  the  investigation  should  be  linked  with  the  scope  of 
certification and the target of evaluation 

2.  amends subsection 7.4 replacing “can” by “shall” and “certification activity” by “certification”. 

3.  replaces the reference to “certification mechanism” by “certification scheme”. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

26. 

This opinion is addressed to the UK SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

27.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft list. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend 
to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend 
to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

9 

