1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00038/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated November 22,
2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF INSTITUTIONS
PRISONS with NIF S2813060G (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are as follows:

“On August 6, 2019, the General Secretary of Institutions
Penitentiaries convenes "THE DECENTRALIZED COURSE IN SKILLS
SOCIAL, PERSONAL INTERACTION AND PRACTICAL PROBLEM SOLVING
CONFLICTS” course within the Call for training actions included in the plan
of training for employment of the year 2019 in order to be taught in some centers
prison officers to prison officers.

The facts in question occur on the occasion of the development of the aforementioned Course
last October 30 at the Penitentiary Center of ***LOCALIDAD.1 when
the Deputy Director of Security in the course of it projects before the attendees
a series of VIDEOS where both OFFICIALS AND
OFFICIALS as well as INTERNALS, these officials being totally
recognizable and faces without pixelation or with some kind of blurred face in
situations of actions within their work environment, reductions and aggressions of
interns to civil servants and civil servants.

The Deputy Director of Security has compiled recordings from the cameras of the
penitentiary center corresponding to the years 2016,2017,2018 and 2019 of
actions of officials in the exercise of their regular work and has used this
material without permission or authorization of the officials that appear in the aforementioned
videos or inmates, in addition to using audiovisual material found
within the scope of the security of the penitentiary center as material for
presentation of a training course.

In fact, some of those attending the conference were able to recognize the
officials who appeared in them as well as their intervention in the
performances”.

“In conclusion, understanding that, on the part of the Deputy Director of Security of the
Penitentiary Center of Jaén as well as by the Director of the Center that has allowed the
dissemination of the video during the training sessions, a
illegitimate interference with the right to one's own Image, having spread without the
consent of prison officials personal data, images,
professional license numbers, going against the provisions of article 6 of the
L.O.P.D serves this writing to carry out the corresponding initiation of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

sanctioning procedure initiating proceedings in order to determine whether
Circumstances exist that justify such initiation.
SECOND: On 01/15/20, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the entity
reported-- GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS- to
the effects of expressing in law what it deems appropriate about the facts object
of complaint.
THIRD. On 02/10/20, this agency received a written statement of allegations from the
denounced party, stating the following

“The Center does not collect video recorders. They are deleted
automatically by the system 15 days after its recording, unless one of the
they were related to matters that are judicialized, in which case
kept at the disposal of the corresponding judicial authority. It is not understood
whistleblower's claim that camera recordings have been collected
corresponding to the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.

The specific recording or recordings alluded to in the complaint are unknown.
as well as the identity of the people to whom an "interference
illegitimate the right to one's own image".

That such Complaint could be related to the opening of Prior Information
nº ***INFORMATION.1 carried out by the Penitentiary Inspection to the official
of this Center D.B.B.B. (brother of the person who filed the aforementioned
complaint). Another fact that supports what was stated in the previous point is the fact that
incriminate the Director of the Center who has NOT participated in any of the Training Courses
training referred to by the Complainant”
FOURTH: On March 23, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, with
glo to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Pro-
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the GDPR.
FIFTH: On 06/12/20, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the
entity denounced succinctly alleging the following:

-The video used in the training course on the CP of
*** LOCATION.1 and specifically referred to in the claim that gives rise to the
sanctioning procedure in question. He has used the technique of
pixelated and it is difficult to recognize the recorded officials and inmates.

-Notwithstanding the foregoing, and despite the effort made because
recognized the interveners, there is the understandable possibility that the same
can be identified. Especially if images recorded on the device itself are used.
center where the action took place.

Therefore, in relation to the specific regulations and considering the different
interests at stake in the sense indicated in article 6.4 RGPD, it is considered that the
use of the video surveillance images of the centers for training purposes, must
generally have the express consent of those involved in the images
to watch.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

-At this time, the General Secretariat of Penitentiary Institutions is
is in the process of preparing an instruction that regulates video surveillance
inside the establishments. As a specific section of said instruction,
It is planned to regulate the use of recordings for training media under the regime
of the consent of the interested party. The health crisis experienced has slowed down this process
which has already been resumed and is expected to be completed during this year.

SIXTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the

process.

SEVENTH. On 09/11/20, the “Resolution Proposal” was issued by
the accredited infringement of the content of art. 6 RGPD, having processed data
(images) of employees of the Penitentiary Center, if they have adopted the
necessary measures to obtain your informed consent in this regard, not being
the same pixelated

EIGHTH. On 09/25/20, a WRITTEN is received from the denounced entity, if
although no allegation is attached, after checking the registration system of this
Agency.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the document

information in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. Complaint is received in this AEPD on 11/22/19 by means of which
transfers as the main fact "recordings of officials in the exercise of their
professional activities” without their informed consent.
Second. It consists of the main person responsible for the recordings made-
General Secretariat of Penitentiary Institutions—which is responsible for carrying out
recordings for the purpose of training courses for public employees.
Third. The obtaining of images of the employees of the center is accredited, without
that information in this regard has been provided to them about the purpose of the
themselves.
Fourth. The processing of personal data (images) is accredited as
accredits the video provided to the instruction of this administrative procedure.
Fifth. The entity denounced is proceeding to prepare an Instruction
that regulates the issue of "video-surveillance" inside establishments
penitentiary

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

In the present case, the claim dated 11/22/19 is examined by me-
of which the claimant considers that there has been a data processing of
personal character outside the permitted cases, when the images of va-
civil servants (as) by the Penitentiary Center of Jaén, within the framework of a training course
mative for public employees.

The images (personal data) of the officials have been obtained from
recordings of the video-surveillance cameras, being used without the
their informed consent within a training course given
by the Penitentiary Institution.

Article 4 section 11 of the new RGPD- REGULATION (EU) 2016/679
OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of April 27, 2016-- provides
Next:

«consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will, specifically
informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through a declaration
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that con-
hover (…)”.

Article 6 GDPR provides the following:

“The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is fulfilled:

ditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data

final for one or several specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the

resado is part or for the application at its request of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation.

cable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or

of another natural person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests per-
guided by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
teresa be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment

conduct carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions (...)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The use of the image of a person without their authorization may violate the right
close to your privacy. The right to one's own image includes, in short, the right to
control the diffusion of the most external aspect, that of the human figure.

The delivery of training courses to public employees may contain
in principle, images of situations of professional life, in order to improve
aspects related to their integrity or security, although it is recommended
immensable the pixelation of these or have the informed consent of the
use of these for certain purposes.

As a result of the new GDPR regulations, public entities must evaluate
the different ways by which they obtain consent, in order to gain
guarantee that it is free, informed, specific, and above all unequivocal.

It is understood that the interested party gives this consent when he knows, without
without a doubt, that he is granting his approval. That is why it does not admit forms of
implied or default consent (based on inaction).

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the claimed “treatment of personal data” of a number
indeterminate number of public officials, without the informed consent
mado in the treatment of images (personal data associated with them).

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.
mado, for violation of the content of article 6 RGPD, previously mentioned.

Article 83.5 a) RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
The following actions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines.
transactions of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”.

IV

It should be noted that the reported entity is a Penitentiary Center
(*** LOCATION.1), which is why its nature as an Administration is taken into account.
Public tion, being the conduct carried out in the exercise of its administrative functions
and included in a Training Plan aimed at public employees.

The images were "treated", an aspect on which they initially agree
both parties, without having provided a document informing the group in this regard
of the Penitentiary Center staff.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

The RGPD adds a formal requirement, unlike the primitive LOPD (today
repealed), to obtain consent and thus ensure that it is unequivocal:
consent must be obtained through a statement or through a clear
affirmative action.

Article 58 section 2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each authority of
control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning.
when the processing operations have violated the provisions of the
sente Regulation; (…)”.

Article 77 section 2 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the

Next:

“When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish
as the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct the effects
cough of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
condition of interested party, if any”.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
orders issued under this article (...)”.

So that, in the present case, the condition of Admin-
Public disclosure of the accused, as well as that it has immediately adopted
corrective measures of their conduct, reasons that justify the imposition of a sanction
administrative warning.

Finally, it is important to remember that consent must be verifiable through
posteriori and those who collect personal data must be able to determine
show that the consent of the affected party has been obtained.

 
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF INSTITUTIONS
PENITENTIARY, with NIF S2816001H, for a violation of Article 6 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the reported entity ---SECRET-
GENERAL RÍA OF PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS---.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

