

Bonn/Berlin, January 23, 2019


Press release 01/2019


  First meeting of the European Data Protection Supervisors in 2019
At the first meeting of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) in the new year, important groundwork was again set for European data protection. Topics included the EU-US Privacy Shield, certification guidelines and improving communication with social media providers in the event of data protection incidents.

A key item on the agenda was the resolution of the report on the Second Annual Joint Review of the Privacy Shield. This contains suggestions as to how the agreement can be further improved. Because even if the US authorities have taken important steps to more effectively review the requirements of the Privacy Shield, there are still important points of criticism. There is still a lack of a permanent appointment to the ombudsperson and disclosure of their powers to the security authorities. The BfDI explains: It remains doubtful whether the ombudsperson mechanism grants the required degree of legal protection in practice. I expect our American friends to provide the necessary clarity here.
Another important point was the adoption of the Guidelines on Certification. The guidelines are intended to provide pointers for designing certification processes in accordance with the GDPR. Together with the Guidelines on Accreditation, which were adopted last December, both papers serve as important guidelines. There is now another piece of the puzzle in order to finally be able to finalize the procedure for creating the prerequisites for the certification of GDPR-compliant data protection in Germany.
Finally, at the suggestion of Germany, in the wake of the local doxxing scandal, the EDPB also dealt with the question of how supervisory communication with social media providers and other IT companies can be improved and, above all, accelerated. The aim should be to be able to react more quickly to data protection incidents in order to minimize the negative effects on those affected as much as possible. To this end, it was agreed to jointly discuss technical and organizational measures in order to enable direct contact with the responsible departments in urgent cases. The German data protection authorities will present a proposal on this.
After his first participation in the EDSA, the Federal Data Protection Commissioner Ulrich Kelber once again emphasized the importance of this body: data has long since known no borders. Their protection must therefore also be transnational. With the GDPR, we have been given a powerful tool to shape data protection in such a way that half a billion people across Europe benefit from it. However, this only works if all European data protection supervisory authorities work together. The EDPB creates the necessary basis for this. And even if the coordination processes are naturally sometimes tedious with so many participants, it is always worthwhile in view of the major goal of guaranteeing the best level of data protection worldwide.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











