 

 

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

     

Athens, 06-28-2018
 

 

     

Prot. No.: G/EX/5799/28-06-2018
 

 

 

      

 

A P O F A S H 52/2018
 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Plenary meeting at its store on 12-06-2018 following the invitation of its President,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to consider issues of applicable law arising after commencement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the General Data Protection Regulation. K. were present.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Menoudakos, President, who also acted as rapporteur, K. Christodoulou, Ch.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Anthopoulos, A. Symvonis, K. Lambrinoudakis,
 

 

 

 

 

regular members, and Em.
 

 

 

 

Dimogerontakis, substitute member, replacing regular member E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Martsoukou, who, although summoned only in writing, did not appear
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obstruction. The regular member of the Authority Sp. Vlachopoulos, although he was only summoned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing, did not attend due to obstruction. I was present at the meeting, without a right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vote, was K. Karveli, expert scientist, as assistant rapporteur, who
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the discussion and before the conference and decision-making, and n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Department of Administrative Affairs, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
  

 

The Authority considered the issue of the Authority's competence according to the General
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter GDPR), to be received on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

queries and requests of our processors, data subjects and/or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and others related to personal data processing issues.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

The Authority, after hearing the rapporteur and the assistant rapporteur, then left
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the discussion and before the conference and decision-making, and after thorough
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion,
  

 

SEVENTH E ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. According to recitals 122 and 132 of the GDPR:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(122) Every supervisory authority should be competent, on the territory of the state
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

member to which he is subordinate, to exercise the powers and perform the duties assigned to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are assigned in accordance with this regulation. This should cover n to n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed in the context of the activities of an establishment of the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processor or processor in the territory of his own state
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

member, the processing of personal data carried out by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public authorities or private bodies acting in the public interest, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing that affects data subjects on his or her territory
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing carried out by a processor or processor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

not established in the Union, when it targets data subjects who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reside on its territory. This should include coping
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of complaints submitted by the data subject, implementation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

research on the implementation of this regulation and its promotion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

raising public awareness of risks, rules, guarantees and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights related to the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character".

   

"(132) The awareness raising activities by the supervisory authorities are as follows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

addressed to the public should include specific measures for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controllers and processors, including
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as natural persons i.e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of education".
 

 

 

 

According to article 55 par. 1 of the GDPR, each supervisory authority is competent to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

perform the duties and exercise the powers assigned to it in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

regulation in the territory of its member state.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 57 paragraph 1 of the GDPR states the following: "Without prejudice to the other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

duties set out in this regulation, any supervisory authority in the territory
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a) monitor and enforce the implementation of this regulation, b) promote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public awareness and understanding of risks, rules,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guarantees and rights related to processing a. ...c) advises,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to the law of the member state, the national parliament, the government and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other bodies and organizations for legislative and administrative measures related to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons against it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, d) promote the awareness of those responsible for processing and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performing the processing in relation to its obligations hereunder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulation, e) upon request, provides information to the data subjects
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the exercise of their rights under this regulation and,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibly, cooperates for this purpose with the supervisory authorities in other states
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

members, f) handles complaints submitted by their subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data or by an institution or organization or association in accordance with article 80...h) carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

investigations related to the application of this regulation...l) provides advice
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the acts of processing of article 36 paragraph 2 (expansion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact)…….”. In accordance with the provisions of article 58 of the GDPR, the supervisory
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authority of each member state, among others, gives orders to our data controller or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the processor to comply with the subject's requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data for the exercise of his rights according to the regulation (par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 para. c'), gives an order to the person in charge of the processing or to the person performing the processing a
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to make our processing operations in accordance with the provisions of the regulation, if
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary, in a specific way and within a certain period (par. 2 para. d),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides advice to our controller in accordance with the procedure a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prior consultation on the impact assessment (par. 3 para. a') and issued with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on its own initiative or at the request of opinions to the national parliament, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

government of the Member State or in accordance with the law of the Member State to others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

institutions and organizations, as well as to the public, for every issue related to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3

protection of personal data (par. 3 para. b), while according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 6 of the same article each member state can provide by law that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its supervisory authority has additional powers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

According to the above provisions, the Authority has an obligation a) to handle them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints submitted by the data subject or by an entity or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization or association in accordance with article 80 of the GDPR, b) to provide, subsequently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

request, information only to the data subjects and only regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the exercise of their rights, as they derive from the GDPR and c) to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advise our data controller about our data processing operations;
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 36 paragraph 2 (impact assessment). At the same time, a duty is provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority to raise awareness of those responsible for our processing and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performing the processing in relation to their obligations hereunder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulation, as well as the public with the most suitable ones in its opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ways, such as updating through it
 

 

 

 

 

educational days or lectures.
  

 

 

 

website of the Authority or organization
 

 

 

 

 

In addition, Article 5 para. 2 of the GDPR establishes the principle of accountability of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our controller, according to which our controller carries the
 

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsibility for compliance with the regulation and the burden of summons and proof thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of our processing. Consequently, yes, the competent person should also park
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to judge on a case-by-case basis the issues of personal data processing regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the implementation of the regulation, in consultation with the Protection Officer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data, where it exists, as well as to answer their questions and requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data subjects and methods for the aforementioned issues (such as satisfaction
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requests for providing information to third parties or for providing information about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the application of the Regulation).
  

 

 

 

In accordance with the aforementioned, from the provisions of the GDPR and in particular from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its provisions on the duties and powers of the supervisory authorities, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their powers are enumerated, it follows that the Authority has no obligation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responds to the questions and requests of our data controllers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects or methods, regarding personal processing issues
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

of data that do not fall under the provisions of the GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its powers. The same applies to applications pending on 25.5.2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and questions, given that under the previous legislative regime of the Guide
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

95/46 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and the corresponding law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 (Government Gazette A' 50) on the one hand, the Authority has no obligation to undertake
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

questions and requests of the data subjects and third parties h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competence provided for in the provision of article 19 par. 1 point m of Law 2472/1997
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to examine requests from our processors, with which control is requested
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the questioning of the legality of our processing, is inconsistent with its principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

liability established with the GDPR, in accordance with the above.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority unanimously decides that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. He is no longer obliged to answer their questions and requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

those in charge of our processing, the data subjects and others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with personal data processing issues that do not fall under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its competences provided for by the provisions of the GDPR. Relatively
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Questions and requests that may be sent to the Authority should be sent to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

start o.
 

 

2. Any pending applications will not be considered and will be placed on file.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 
 
 
 

 Constantinos Menoudakos
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5

