1/31 

Litigation Chamber 
Decision on the merits 11/2022 of 21 January 2022 

Case File number: DOS -2018-05968 

Subject: Cross border complaint relating to cookies 

The  Litigation  Chamber  of  the  Data  Protection  Authority,  consisting  of  Mr  Hielke  Hijmans, 

Chairman, and Mr Yves Poullet and Mr Christophe Boeraeve, Members, ruling on the case in this 

composition; 

Pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 

2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on 

the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Directive  95/46/EC  (General  Data  Protection 

Regulation), hereinafter the “GDPR”; 

Pursuant to the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority for Belgium, 

hereinafter the “LCA”; 

Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure as approved by the Belgian House of Representatives on 20 

December 2018 and published in the Moniteur belge Official Journal of 15 January 2019; 

Pursuant to the documents in the case file; 

has taken the following decision concerning: 

the complainant: 

Mr X 

the defendant: 

Y , represented by its counsel, Maître Rue, Chaussée de La Hulpe, 177/12, 

1170 Brussels.  

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 2/31 

 

 
I- Procedural antecedents 

1.  Pursuant  to the complaint received via the IMI system by the Berlin Data Protection Authority 

(Commissioner  for  Data  Protection  and  Freedom  of  Information)  on  24  August  2018  to  the 

Data Protection Authority (DPA); 

2.  Pursuant  to the decision of 23 November 2018 of the Chairman of the Litigation Chamber to 

transfer the case file to the inspection service for investigation; 

3.  Pursuant    to  the  Inspection  Service's  (hereafter,  the  IS)  investigation  report  of  19  October 

2019; 

4.  Pursuant  to the exchanges between the Berlin Data Protection Authority (Berliner Beauftragte 

für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit) and the DPA, in the context of article 60 of the GDPR; 

5.  Pursuant  the decision of 29 April 2020 of the Chairman of the Litigation Chamber that the case 

file was ready for investigation on the merits pursuant to Articles 95 § 1, 1° and 98 LCA, the 

Chairman invited the parties to submit by letter on the same date; 

6.  Pursuant  to the submissions of the defendant, received on 9 June 2020; 

7.  Pursuant  to the absence of submissions in response from the complainant; 

8.  Pursuant  to the defendant's summary submissions, received on 21 July 2020; 

9.  Pursuant    to  the  translation  of  exhibits  of  the  procedure  (inspection  report  and  defendant's 

submissions) into the language of the plaintiff (German); 

10.  Pursuant  to the hearing of 30 April 2021 in the presence of the defendant, represented by its 

legal counsel Maître Rue, in the absence of the plaintiff, although he was summoned;  

11.  Pursuant  to the dispatch, to the parties, of the minutes of the hearing and the comments of 

the parties; 

 

II- The facts of the complaint 

12.  The complainant raises in his complaint that the tool for selecting advertising preferences 

does  not  work,  in  that  the  cookie  opt-out  option  for  many  third  parties  does  not  work 

(although he clicks on the opt-out option, the opt-in option is automatically reset). He thus 

argues that his consent to receiving these cookies is forced and therefore not free in the 

sense of article 4.11 and 7 of the GDPR. 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 3/31 

13.  He also claims that the website requires the user to accept cookies in order to be able to 

select their advertising preferences. 

14.  The cookie in question informs the defendant whether or not the user's browser accepts 

cookies  from  third  parties.  The  Litigation  Chamber  therefore  understands  that  the 

complainant objects to the placement of the cookie and the subsequent processing of his 

personal data by the defendant. 

 

15.  The Litigation Chamber will examine the facts reported by the complainant in the context 

of the task of monitoring compliance with the GDPR entrusted to the DPA (of which it is 

the administrative litigation body) by the European legislator (article 58 of the GDPR) and 

by  the  Belgian  legislator  (article  4  LCA),  both  in  the  light  of  the  articles  of  the  GDPR 

referred to in the complaint form that he introduced on 24 August 2018, and in the light of 

the articles of the GDPR as examined in the IS report.  

16.  The  breaches  identified  in  the  IS  report  will  be  examined  in  the  first  instance.  The 

grievances raised by the complainant in his complaint will then be examined. 

 

III- Findings of the Inspection Service 

17.  As a result of its investigation the IS produced an investigation report in which it identified 

combined breaches of articles 5 and 6, 12 and 13,  24 and 30, 24 and 32, and 37 of the 

GDPR.  

Report on the principles relating to the processing of personal data (article 5 of the GDPR) 

and on the lawfulness of processing (article 6 of the GDPR): 

 

"The technical analysis report of 03/07/2019 (exhibit no. 12), the relevant elements of which 

on  pages  9/14  and  10/14  are  quoted  below,  demonstrates  the  existence  of  the  following 

practices which are incompatible with the principle of lawfulness, fairness, transparency of 

article 5 of the GDPR and with the obligation of lawfulness of processing of article 6 of the 

GDPR: "Upon connection to the site […] on the home page (screenshot 8) a cookie is already 

loaded in the browser although no information has been delivered to the user. The cookie with 

the name "third_party_c_t" with the value "hey+there %21" from the domain Y  is a cookie that 

informs  Y  whether  or  not  your  browser  accepts  third  party  cookies",  and;  "Selecting  the 

country you are in brings up the screen in screenshot 9 which indicates that non-identifiable 

information is being collected. The fact that the information is non-identifiable does not make 

it any less personal. This box is not "transparent" and does not allow the user to have an idea 

of what is being collected and why.” 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 4/31 

 

Report  on  the  transparency  of  information  and  communications  and  arrangements  for 

exercising the data subject's rights (article 12 of the GDPR) and the information to be provided 

when personal data are collected from the data subject (article 13 of the GDPR): 

 

As for the transparency of information, the IS finds: 

 

"The "Privacy Policy of […]", the text of which can be found on pages 19 to 24 and explanations 

on pages 9 and 10 of the document [...] which was communicated to the inspection service by 

Y via its email of 17/07/2019 (exhibit No. 14) does not comply with article 12(1) nor with article 

13 of the GDPR, which are relevant here, for the following reasons:  

 

The information provided is not always transparent and comprehensible to data subjects as 

required by Article 12(1) of the GDPR. Firstly, the language used is not consistent and logical, 

as  the  notions  "personal  information"  and  "private  data"  are  used,  whereas  the  GDPR 

systematically refers to "personal data." 

 

Furthermore, the fact that cookies are used is indicated, along with two warnings to the effect 

that "disabling cookies for this purpose will prevent the control tool from working effectively 

and may have undesirable consequences for your overall browsing experience" and also that 

"deleting or rejecting cookies may have undesirable consequences for your experience of our 

website.”  These  warnings  are  not  comprehensible  to  data  subjects  and  prevent  their  free 

consent  to  the  use  of  cookies  as  they  do  not  explain  what  "undesirable  consequences" 

actually means. 

 

Finally, the reference to "additional information" on the Google, Firefox, Windows and Safari 

sites is not understandable for the data subjects as there is no explanation of this mentioned 

for the data subjects.” 

 

Concerning the fact that the information is allegedly incomplete, the IS finds: 

 

"The  information  provided  is  incomplete  because  not  all  the  information  that  must  be 

provided according to Article 13 of the GDPR is actually provided to the data subjects. Firstly, 

the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness 

of  the  processing  based  on  consent  carried  out  prior  to  the  withdrawal  of  consent,  is  not 

mentioned with regard to the processing of personal data by Y; this right is only mentioned 

with  regard  to  the  management  of  cookies  on  the  website  accompanied  by  the 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 5/31 

aforementioned  warning  that  "deleting  or  rejecting  cookies  may  have  undesirable 

consequences for your experience of our website." 

 

Report on the log of processing activities (article 30 of the GDPR) 

 

"The log of processing activities found in the document "[FR] Annex 1_(..) Register of GDPR 

controls" which was communicated to the inspection service by Y via its email of 17/7/2019 

(exhibit no. 14) does not mention the identification of the third countries to which personal 

data  are  transferred  for  several  processing  activities.  For  these  processing  activities,  the 

texts "Refer to (…)", "Refer to (…)", "Refer to (…)" and "Refer to (…)" are mentioned in the column 

"Names  of  third  countries  or  international  organisations  to  which  personal  data  are 

transferred (if possible)." 

 

Report on the responsibility of the Data Controller (article 24 of the GDPR) and on the security 

of processing (article 32 of the GDPR) 

 

"The technical analysis report of 3/7/2019 (exhibit No. 12), the relevant elements of which on 

pages 8/14 and 9/14 are quoted below, demonstrates the existence of the following practices 

which are incompatible with the responsibility of the Data Controller in article 24 of the GDPR 

and with the obligation of security of processing in article 32(1) of the GDPR: 

 

In screenshot 1 you can see that the link to the server is […]. This link is an http link and not an 

https link. This means that the communication protocol between the client station and the 

server in question is a protocol that conveys data in clear text, i.e. not encapsulated in a tunnel 

as the TLS protocol would for an https link. This means that the personal data provided by the 

user on this site does not have the guarantee stated in the information "Protection of your 

privacy" distributed at the following link […] of which screenshot 7 shows the extract. 

 

In  its  guidelines  on  the  protection  of  personal  data  through  web  services  provided  by  the 

European institutions, the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) recommends the use 

of secure protocols in the transmission of personal data through web services.  

 

The use of an http link instead of an https link and the consequences for the security of the 

processing as mentioned above is also incompatible with the guarantee set out in the "Privacy 

Policy of […]", the text of which can be found on pages 19 to 24 and explanations on pages 9 

and  10  of  the  document  "[FR]  Letter  of  response  –  (…)"  which  was  communicated  to  the 

Inspection Service by  Y  via its email of 17/07/2019 (exhibit No 14). The Inspection Service 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 6/31 

refers in this respect to the following sentences mentioned in the above-mentioned text of 

the Y: 

 

"We are committed to respecting and protecting the privacy of everyone we deal with, have 

dealt with or will deal with. As part of our commitment, we seek to give you clear information 

and control over the personal information we hold about you, as well as other non-personal 

data we may collect and use during your visit to this website." "No other personal information 

will be shared with any other third party." 

 

Findings  on  the  responsibility  of  the  Data  Controller  (article  24  of  the  GDPR)  and  on  the 

designation of the Data Protection Officer (article 37 of the GDPR) 

 

"In the document "[FR] Letter of response – (…)" which was communicated to the inspection 

service by Y via its email of 17/7/2019 (exhibit No. 14) appears on pages 10-11 and pages 25-

31  a  motivation  for  the  decision  not  to  appoint  a  data  protection  officer  within  the 

organisation; according to "The summary of the submission is that the (…) is not obliged to 

appoint a dedicated Data Protection Officer.” 

The aforementioned "decision" and its motivation is not in line with  article 24(1) GDPR, nor 

with article 37(1) GDPR for the following reasons: There is currently no official decision taken 

by  SADC  on  whether  or  not  to  appoint  a  Data  Protection  Officer  despite  the  obligation 

imposed by article 24(1) to “implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 

ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance with this 

Regulation.” The document "Re DOS-2018 -05968 -0J0-VI M -questions in the framework of 

an inspection investigation_FR" which was communicated to the inspection service by the Y 

via its email of 9/9/2019 (exhibit no. 17) mentions on pages 10 to 11 that the above-mentioned 

decision "will be put on the agenda of our next Board of Directors meeting in November 2019 

in order to make sure that the decision taken has been formally documented. 

 

The elements of the technical analysis report of 03/ 07/ 2019 (exhibit no. 12) quoted above in 

the present report demonstrate that a cookie "informs Y as to whether or not your browser 

accepts  cookies  from  third  parties"  which  requires  the  designation  of  a  Data  Protection 

Officer on the basis of article 37, paragraph 1, b) of the GDPR. This cookie is clearly linked to 

the  functioning  of  the  website  www.youronlinechocies.com  given  the  explanations  of  Y 

regarding this website on pages 3 to 9 of the document "[FR] Letter of response – […]" which 

was communicated to the inspection service by Y via its email of 17/07/2019 (exhibit no. 14) 

and permits regular and systematic large-scale monitoring of data subjects." 

 

18.  As a reminder, the IS is independent  from the Litigation Chamber (henceforth the "LC"). 

The investigation report produced by the IS is only one of the elements on which the LC 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 7/31 

bases its decision. 

 

IV- Motivation  

 

IV.1- On the competence of the DPA 

IV.1.1- On the competence of the DPA under the IMI system 

19.  Article  56  of  the  GDPR  states  that  “Without  prejudice  to  Article  55,  the  supervisory 

authority of the main establishment or  of the single establishment of the controller or 

processor shall be competent to act as lead supervisory authority for the cross-border 

processing carried out by that controller or processor in accordance with the procedure 

provided in Article 60.” 

20.  Article 4.23 of the GDPR explains the concept of cross-border processing in the following 

terms: 

“(a)  processing  of  personal  data  which  takes  place  in  the  context  of  the  activities  of 

establishments  in  more  than  one  Member  State  of  a  controller  or  processor  in  the  Union 

where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State; or 

 

(b) processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of a single 

establishment of a controller or processor in the Union but which substantially affects or  is 

likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State.” 

 

21.  The  defendant  has  its  sole  place  of  business  in  Belgium,  but  its  activities  (more 

particularly,  its  website  youronlinechoices,  which  can  be  visited  from  any  EU  Member 

State)  substantially  affect  or  are  likely  to  substantially  affect  data  subjects  in  several 

Member States, including the complainant in Germany. The Litigation Chamber bases its 

competence on a combined reading of Articles 56 and 4.23.b) of the GDPR. A case has 

been referred to the DPA by the Data Protection Authority in Berlin, following a complaint 

by the complainant to an authority in the Member State in which he is habitually resident, 

in accordance with Article 77.1 of the GDPR, and the DPA has declared itself to be the lead 

supervisory authority (Article 60 of the GDPR).    

 

 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 8/31 

IV.1.2- On the competence of the DPA  

 

22.  In  the  section  below,  the  Litigation  Chamber  recalls  that  the  DPA's  competence  with 

respect  to  the  ePrivacy  Directive  has  been  developed  in  previous  decisions  of  the 

Chamber,  including  Decisions  12/2019  of  17  December  2019,  24/2021  of  19  February 

2021, as well as 19/2021 of 12 February 2021.  This section contains a summary of the 

Chamber's position.    

23.  Pursuant to Article 4 § 1 of the LCA [the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the DPA, 

the DPA is responsible for monitoring the respect of the fundamental principles of data 

protection  as  affirmed  by  the  GDPR  and  other  laws  containing  provisions  on  the 

protection of personal data processing.  

24.  Pursuant  to  Article  33  §  1  of  the  LCA,  the  Litigation  Chamber  is  the  administrative 

litigation organ of the DPA. Among other things, it deals with complaints that are sent to 

it via the IMI system, on the basis of Article 56 of the GDPR.  

25.  Pursuant to Articles 51 et seq. of the GDPR and Article 4.1 of the LCA, it is the duty of the 

Litigation Chamber as the administrative litigation organ of the DPA to exercise effective 

control over the application of the GDPR, to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms 

of  natural  persons  with  regard  to  data  processing,  and  to  facilitate  the  free  flow  of 

personal data within the Union. 

26.  As the defendant acknowledges, the website collects personal data through three types 

of  cookies  (audience  cookies,  “chat  box”  cookies,  and  session  cookies),  and  therefore 

processes this personal data. 

27.  The  Litigation  Chamber  is  competent  to  rule  on  cases  concerning  the  processing  of 

personal data, pursuant to Article 4, § 1 of the LCA and Article 55 of the GDPR, and in 

compliance with Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 

28.  Furthermore,  under  Belgian 

law,  the  Belgian  Institute  for  Postal  Services  and 

Telecommunications (BIPT) is the controller for the Electronic Communications Law (ECL 

hereinafter), including Article 129 of the ECL which implements Article 5.3 of Directive 

2002/581 (hereinafter, the “ePrivacy Directive”), in accordance with Article 14, § 1 of the 

Law  of  17/01/2003  on  the  status  of  the  regulator  of  the  Belgian  postal  and 

telecommunications sectors. 

 

1 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of 

personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and 

electronic communications, as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 

25 November 2009, hereinafter the “ePrivacy Directive”). 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 9/31 

29.  In its Opinion 5/2019 on the interaction between the ePrivacy Directive2 and the GDPR, 

the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter: “EDPB”) confirmed that data protection 

authorities are competent to apply the GDPR to data processing operations, including in 

contexts  where  other  authorities  would  be  competent,  pursuant  to  the  national 

transposition  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  to  supervise  certain  aspects  of  personal  data 

processing.  

30.  This Opinion also indicates that the ePrivacy Directive aims to “clarify and complement” 

the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the 

electronic communications sector, thereby ensuring compliance with Articles 7 and 8 of 

the EU’s Charter of Fundamental Rights. 

31.  The Litigation Chamber notes in this respect that Article 8.3 of the Charter provides that 

the  processing  of  personal  data  is  subject  to  monitoring  by  an  independent  authority 

tasked with data protection.  

32.  In addition, the legal predecessor of the EDPB (the Article 29 Data Protection Working 

Party, hereinafter: Data Protection Working Party) also clarified that the requirements of 

the GDPR for obtaining valid consent apply to the situations that fall within the scope of 

the ePrivacy Directive3.  

33.  In the Planet49 judgement, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed that the 

collection of data through cookies can be said to constitute personal data processing4. 

Therefore, the Court interpreted Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy Directive in  the light of the 

GDPR5,  in  particular  on  the  basis  of  Article  4.11,  Article  6.1.a  of  the  GDPR  (consent 

requirement), and Article 13 of the GDPR (information to be provided). 

34.  As  mentioned  above,  the  competence  of  the  BIPT  to  monitor  certain  aspects  of 

processing – such as the placement of cookies on the Internet user's terminal equipment 

–  does  not  negatively  impact  the  general  competence  of  the  DPA.  As  specified  by  the 

EDPB,  data  protection  authorities  remain  competent  for  processing  operations  (or 

aspects  of  processing  operations)  for  which  the  ePrivacy  Directive  does  not  lay  down 

specific rules6. There is indeed a complementarity of competences between BIPT and the 

DPA in this case, insofar as on the basis of article 4 of the LCA, the DPA is responsible for 

 

2 EDPB, Opinion 5/2019 on the interactions between the “privacy and electronic communications” directive and the GDPR, in 
particular as regards the competence, tasks, and powers of data protection authorities, § 69  

3 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679, WP259, p. 4. 

4 Judgement of the Court of 1 October 2019, Planet49, C-673/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:801, point 45. 

5 As well as in the light of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection 

of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of such data. 

6 EDPB, Opinion 5/2019 on the interactions between the “privacy and electronic communications” directive and the GDPR, in 
particular as regards the competence, tasks, and powers of data protection authorities, § 69.  

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 10/31 

monitoring compliance with the fundamental principles of data protection (as affirmed by 

the GDPR and in the other laws containing provisions relating to the protection of personal 

data), and that consent is indeed a fundamental principle in this field. 

35.  Furthermore, the complaint also relates to the processing that takes place following the 

placement of the contentious cookie. 

36.  Furthermore,  the  aforementioned  Opinion  5/2019  of  the  EDPB  on  the  interaction 

between the ePrivacy Directive7 and the GDPR also states that national procedural law 

determines what should happen when a data subject lodges a complaint with the Data 

Protection  Authority  regarding  an  instance  of  personal  data  processing  (such  as  data 

collection by means of cookies), without also complaining about (potential) violations of 

the GDPR. This corresponds well to the present case. 

37.  In this respect, the Brussels Court  of First Instance has clearly indicated  that the legal 

predecessor  of  the  DPA  was  competent  to  submit  a  request  to  a  court  “insofar  as  it 

concerned alleged violations of the Privacy Law of 8 December 1992, to which Article 129 

of  the  ECL, which clarifies and  complements it, expressly  refers”8. As indicated  below, 

Article 129 of the ECL is the implementation in Belgian law of Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy 

Directive. 

38.  The DPA is thus competent to verify whether or not the requirement of the fundamental 

principle  of  consent  around  the  challenged  cookie  complies  with  the  consent 

requirements of the GDPR. 

 

39.  The DPA is also competent to verify compliance with all other conditions made mandatory 

by the GDPR - such as transparency of processing (Article 12 of the GDPR) or information 

to be provided (Article 13 of the GDPR). 

40.   As confirmed by the Court of Justice in the Facebook et al. judgement, only the recording 

and  reading  of  personal  data  by  means  of  cookies  falls  within  the  scope  of  Directive 

2002/58/EC,  while  “all  prior  operations  and  subsequent  activities 

involving  the 

processing of such personal data by means of other technologies fall within the scope of 

the [GDPR]”.9   

 

 

7 EDPB, Opinion 5/2019 on the interactions between the “privacy and electronic communications” directive and the GDPR, in 
particular as regards the competence, tasks, and powers of data protection authorities, 12/03/2019, § 70.  

8  Brussels  Court,  24th  Chamber  for  Civil  Cases,  16  February  2018,  Docket  No.  2016/153/A,  point  26,  p.  51,  available  at: 
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/news/lautorite-de-protection-des-donnees-defend-son-argumentation-devant-
lacour- dappel-de-bruxelles. 

9 Judgement of the Court of 15 June 2021, C-645/19, ECLI:EU:C:2021:483, point 74.  

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 11/31 

 

IV.2- As regards breaches of the principles of transparency (article 5.1.a and 12 and 13 

of the GDPR) and lawfulness (article 6 of the GDPR) 

IV.2.1.1-Reminder  of  the  basic  legal  principles  concerning  the  use  of  tracking  tools  and 

cookies 

41.  Before examining the corresponding breaches identified by the IS  report, the Litigation 

Chamber considers it useful, for educational purposes, to provide a short introduction to 

the subject of cookies and to recall the basic legal principles concerning tools for tracking 

internet users, of which cookies are a part. 

42.  The term "trackers" includes cookies and HTTP variables, which may include web beacons, 

flash  cookies,  access  to  terminal  information  from  APIs  (LocalStorage,  IndexedDB, 

advertising identifiers such as IDFA or Android ID, GPS access, etc.), or any other software 

or  operating  system  generated  identifier  (serial  number,  MAC  address,  unique  terminal 

identifier (UTI), or any data that is used to calculate a unique fingerprint of the terminal), or 

any other identifier generated by a software or an operating system (serial number, MAC 

address, unique terminal identifier (UTI), or any set of data that is used to calculate a unique 

fingerprint of the terminal (e.g. via fingerprinting). 

43.  These cookies and other trackers can be distinguished according to different criteria, such 

as the purpose they serve, the domain that sets them or their lifetime. Cookies can thus be 

used  for  many  different  purposes  (among  others,  to  support  communication  on  the 

network  -  "connection  cookie"  -,  to  measure  the  audience  of  a  website  -  "audience 

measurement,  analytical  or  statistical  cookies"  -,  for  marketing  and/or  behavioural 

advertising purposes, for authentication purposes, etc.). 

44.  Cookies can  also be distinguished  according  to  the domain that sets them, so they  are 

"first-party" or "third party.” A first-party cookie is set directly by the owner of the website 

visited, whereas  a  third-party  cookie is set by  a domain other than  the one  visited  (e.g. 

when the site incorporates elements from other sites such as images, social media plugins 

- the Facebook "Like" button for example - or advertisements). When these elements are 

retrieved by the browser or other software from other sites, these sites may also place 

cookies  that  can  then  be  read  by  the  sites  that  have  placed  them.  These  "third  party 

cookies" allow these third parties to track the behaviour of internet users over time and 

across multiple sites and to create internet user profiles from this data. 

45.  Cookies can also be distinguished according to their validity period, between "session" and 

"persistent"  cookies.    “Session  cookies"  are  automatically  deleted  when  the  browser  is 

closed, whereas persistent cookies remain stored on the device used until their expiry date 

(which can be expressed in minutes, days or years). 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 12/31 

46.  From a legal point of view, a distinction should be made between trackers which require 

consent from the user and those that do not. 

47.  Trackers that do not require consent are those that are strictly necessary for the provision 

of an online communication service expressly requested by the user, or trackers that are 

intended  to  enable  the  transmission  of  the  communication  by  electronic  means.  These 

trackers do not require the consent of users. The processing of personal data in the latter 

trackers is generally based on the legitimate interest of the data controller (article 6.1.f of 

the GDPR). 

48.  This  does  not  prevent,  however,  in  respect  of  the  principle  of  transparency,  informing 

Iinternet users of their use and reminding them that they can use their browser settings to 

block them and in this case mentioning the potentially negative effects, on the functioning 

of  the  site,  on  doing  so.  The  associated  processing  of  personal  data  obviously  remains 

subject to the principles of the GDPR. 

49.  Cookies which do not require consent include those that retain the user's choice to store 

trackers, those that are used for authentication to a service, those that retain the contents 

of a shopping cart, or those that personalise the user interface (e.g. for language selection 

or service layout), where such personalisation is an intrinsic and expected feature of the 

service.   

50.  Prior consent must be obtained for other cookies and trackers. Moreover, processing on 

the  basis  of  legitimate  interest  is  also  prohibited  for  these  cookies.  Thus,  prior  user 

consent is required for all cookies that do not have the exclusive purpose of enabling or 

facilitating communication by electronic means or that are not strictly necessary for the 

provision of an online communication service at the express request of the user. These 

may for example be related to the display of personalised or non-personalised advertising 

(since trackers are used to measure the audience of the advertising displayed in the latter 

case) or to sharing features on social networks. In the absence of consent (i.e. in the event 

of  a  refusal  by  the  user),  these  cookies  cannot  be  stored  and/or  read  on  the  user's 

terminal.10 

IV.2.1- As regards the breach concerning the use of a cookie without prior information of the 

user  

51.  In essence, the IS identifies two shortcomings in this regard: 

 

10 See the Knowledge Centre's Recommendation No. 01/2020 of 17 January 2020 on the processing of personal data for direct 
marketing  purposes  concerning  many  practical  aspects  and  examples  on  the  use  of  cookies  in  compliance  with  the  GDPR, 
particularly concerning consent and transparency (p78 +s). See also the CNIL practical sheet "Cookies and trackers: how to 
make my website compliant", 01 October 2020, https://www.cnil.fr/fr/cookies-et-traceurs-comment-mettre-mon-site-web-en-
conformite 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 13/31 

- Article 12(1) of the GDPR provides that the controller must take appropriate measures to 

provide the data subject with any information referred to in particular in article 13 of the GDPR 

in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible manner, in clear and simple 

terms. Article 12.2 of the GDPR provides that the data Controller must facilitate the rights of 

the data subject. 

- Article 13(1) and (2) state, with regard to the information to be provided when personal data 

are collected from the data subject 

“1.    Where  personal  data  relating  to  a  data  subject  are  collected  from  the  data  subject,  the 
controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with all of 
the following information: 

a)   the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller’s 
representative;  identity  and  contact  details  of  the  controller  and,  where  appropriate,  of  the 
controller's representative 
 

b)  the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable; 

 

c)  the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal 

basis for the processing; 
 

d)    where the processing is based on point (f) of article 6(1), the legitimate interests pursued by the 

controller or by a third party; 
 

e)  the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, if any; and 

 

f)   where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country 
or  international  organisation  and  the  existence  or  absence  of  an  adequacy  decision  by  the 
Commission,  or  in  the  case  of  transfers  referred  to  in  article  46  or  47,  or  the  second 
subparagraph of article 49(1), reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means 
by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available. 
 

2.   In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall, at the time when 
personal  data  are  obtained,  provide  the  data  subject  with  the  following  further  information 
necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing: 

a)  the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used 

to determine that period; 
 

b)  the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure 
of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  concerning  the  data  subject  or  to  object  to 
processing as well as the right to data portability;  
 

c)  where the processing is based on point (a) of article 6(1) or point (a) of article 9(2), the existence 
of the right to  withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of processing 
based on consent before its withdrawal; 
 

d)  the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 14/31 

e) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in article 22(1) and 
  
(4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the 
significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject. 
 
 
 

 

52.  The  Litigation  Chamber  recalls  that  the  purpose  of  the  principle  of  transparency 

highlighted in articles 12, 13 and 14 of the GDPR is that the data subject should be able, in 

accordance with the principle of fairness in article 5.1. a), to determine in advance what the 

scope and consequences of the processing encompass so as not to be caught off guard at 

a later stage as to how his or her personal data have been used. The information should be 

concrete  and  reliable,  not  couched  in  abstract  or  ambiguous  terms  and  not  open  to 

different interpretations. In particular, the purposes and legal basis for the processing of 

personal data should be clear. 

53.  In the Planet49 judgment11, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that for the 

placement of cookies the data controller must provide information on the duration of the 

operation of the cookies as well as on whether or not third parties have access to these 

cookies, in order to ensure fair and transparent information (article 5.3 of the  e-Privacy 

Directive regarding  the placement of cookies is thus to be read in conjunction with the 

fairness principle (article 5.1. a) and the information obligations of article 13.2 (a) and (e) of 

the GDPR.  

54.  Pursuant to Articles 5.2 and 24 of the GDPR, the data controller must take appropriate 

technical and organisational measures to ensure and be able to prove that the processing 

of personal data using cookies is carried out in accordance with articles 12 and 13 of the 

GDPR.  

55.  In the case in point, the IS found, firstly, that when the user logged on to the defendant's 

website (homepage), a cookie was already loaded in the browser, although no information 

had been delivered to the user. Personal data were thus processed before the sharing of 

the information required by article 13 GDPR. The cookie was called "third_party_c_t", and 

informed the defendant whether or not the user's browser accepted third-party cookies 

(the preference cookies of the participating companies). 

56.  The defendant acknowledges in its submissions that the user was not informed in advance 

about the placement of the cookie, at least in the version of the website at the time of the 

investigation  by  the  inspection  service.  The  defendant  points  out  that  the  cookie  in 

question was deleted in April 2020 following a modification of the website, and then adds 

that it was a first-party cookie which could be described as essential (i.e. strictly necessary, 

11Judgment of the Court of 1 October 2019, C-673/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:801. 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 15/31 

which the IS report does not dispute). Moreover, this cookie did not constitute a risk for 

the rights and freedoms of the data subjects because it was not similar to an identifier.  

57.  As regards the period between the entry into force of the GDPR on 25 May 2018 and the 

deletion of the cookie in April 2020, the defendant states that for technical reasons the 

cookie was deposited before the banner with information on the use of cookies by the site 

appeared. It also explains that it was impossible to display the information about the cookie 

in  the  user's  language  since  it  is  on  this  page  that  the  user  had  to  select  their 

language/country.  

58.  It also states that as this was an essential cookie, user consent was not required. This is 

not disputed in the IS report. 

59.  The Litigation Chamber takes note of the modification of the defendant's website, which, 

as the defendant states in its submissions, strengthens its compliance with the GDPR. It 

also  notes  the  deletion  in  April  2020  of  the  cookie  in  question.  The  fact  remains  that 

between the entry into force of the GDPR (25 May 2018) and the deletion of the cookie in 

question  in  April  2020,  the  defendant  collected  and  processed  personal  data  without 

previously informing the user.  

60.   The arguments put forward by the defendant cannot be retained, the first according to 

which  the  cookie  was  loaded  before  the  information  banner  appeared  for  "technical 

reasons", and the second according to which the information could not be communicated 

to the user before the cookie was loaded since it was precisely on the page visited that the 

user had to choose his language/country. As regards the argument that the user had not 

yet selected a language, it was therefore appropriate to display the warning of the use of 

the cookie in English, a widespread language commonly used by other websites, before 

the user's language was selected.12 

61.   The argument put forward by the applicant that the impact in terms of risks to users' rights 

and  freedoms  was  low  is likewise  irrelevant:  the  obligation  to  provide  prior  information 

applies to all types of cookies, regardless of whether their impact on the data subject's 

right to data protection is low or not. 

62.  The Litigation Chamber finds a breach of articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR between the entry 

into force of the GDPR (i.e. 18 May 2028) and the removal of the "third_party_c_t" cookie 

in April 2020. 

 

12  The  Litigation  Chamber  also  refers  to  the  extensive  practical  information  on  cookies  available  on  the  DPA  website  at 
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/citoyen/themes/internet/cookies.  See  also  Recommendation  no.  01/2020  of  17 
January 2020 on the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes concerning many practical aspects and examples 
on the use of cookies in compliance with the GDPR, in particular concerning transparency (p78 +s) 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 16/31 

IV.2.2- As regards the transparency of the box indicating that "non-identifiable information" 

is collected 

63.   The second breach identified by the IS report concerns the screen that appeared (at the 

time of the investigation,  i.e. before the website was modified), when the user chooses 

their  language  and  country.  This  screen  stated:  "This  website  collects  and  uses  non-

identifiable information to analyse site activity to improve navigation. You can control how 

this information is collected and used" and was accompanied by a hyperlink to the "Privacy 

policy" page. 

64.  The IS report points out that although this information is not identifiable, it is still personal 

data. According to the IS, this box is not "transparent" and does not allow the user to have 

an idea of what is being collected and for what purpose.  

65.  The defendant replies in this respect that a dialogue box has replaced the screen (or box) 

in question since the modification of the website. It also contests that for the period prior 

to the modification the box was not transparent, in that it was sufficient for the user to click 

on  the  hyperlink  to  obtain  the  information  relating  to  the  'non-identifiable  information' 

collected. Moreover, this screen remained displayed throughout the user's visit, unless the 

user closed it. The defendant added that this information was available on other pages of 

the site and in the site's privacy policy document, and also pointed out that since these 

cookies were not subject to prior consent (since they were strictly necessary), the GDPR 

does not require the  Data Controller to provide all relevant information in a single prior 

information box, which, the defendant argues, would not be feasible in practice. 

66.  The  Litigation  Chamber  recalls  the  requirement  of  Recital  58  of  the  GDPR  that  “The 

principle of transparency requires that any information addressed to the public or to the 

data subject be concise, easily accessible and easy to understand, and that clear and plain 

language and, additionally, where appropriate, visualisation be used.  

67.  The Litigation Chamber also reminds the requirement of article 12.1 of the GDPR, which 

states  that  "The  controller  shall  take  appropriate  measures  to  provide  any  information 

referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and any communication under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 

relating to processing to the data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily 

accessible form, using clear and plain language, in particular for any information addressed 

specifically to a child." (emphasis added) 

68.  In other words, this means that before the user's consent is requested, the principle of 

transparency  requires  that  precise  information  be  provided  to  the  user  on  the  data 

controller, the purposes of the cookies and other trackers that will be deposited and/or 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 17/31 

read, the data they collect and their lifespan. The information must also cover the rights 

that the GDPR gives to the user (or data subject), including the right to withdraw consent. 

69.  As  mentioned  above,  the  information  should  be  visible,  complete  and  prominently 

displayed. It should be written in simple terms that are understandable to any user. This 

implies,  in  particular,  that  the  information  should  be  written  in  a  language  that  is  easily 

understood by the 'target audience' for which it is intended. For example, if the website is 

aimed  at  a  French  and/or  Dutch-speaking  audience,  the  information  must  be  written  in 

French and/or Dutch13.  

70.  The  Litigation  Chamber  considers  that  the  defendant  failed  to  comply  with  the 

transparency  obligation  before  the  modification  of  the  website  in  that  the  box  did  not 

provide, at the very  least, a direct link to the required information about the cookies used 

under Article 13 of the GDPR, instead of a general reference to the defendant's privacy 

policy.  

71.  In this respect, the Chamber agrees with the recent guidelines of the CNIL14, which also 

emphasise that “Simply inserting a link to the general conditions of use is not sufficient.  

At the very least, the following information must be given to users in advance to make 

sure that their consent is informed:  

-the identity of the person(s) responsible for processing read or write operations;  

-the purpose of the data reading or writing operations;  

-how to accept or reject the trackers;  

-the consequences of refusing or accepting the trackers;  

-the existence of the right to withdraw consent.”  

 

72.  The Litigation Chamber must here reiterate the key role of the principle of transparency in 

the respect of the data protection rights of the data subjects. This principle contributes to 

guaranteeing freedom of choice to users by giving them more control over their personal 

data, in particular in the context of the large-scale tracking practices of Internet users in 

our digital economy. 

73.  The Litigation Chamber notes from the outset and in the alternative that, in addition to the 

necessary  respect  for  the  principle  of  transparency,  as  developed  below,  the  user's 

consent (for non-functional cookies) must also meet a number of requirements. 

 

13 As mentioned below, in the case in point, if the target language cannot be identified on the first page of the site, the Data 
Controller may use English to allow the user to choose his or her language. 

14 Deliberation No. 2020-091 of 17 September 2020 adopting guidelines on the application of Article 82 of the amended Act of 
6 January 1978 to read and write operations on a user's terminal (in particular "cookies and other trackers") and repealing 
Deliberation No. 2019-093 of 4 July 2019, points 23-25 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 18/31 

74.  For information purposes, the Litigation Chamber refers to the DPA website15, where there 

is a wide range of practical advice on how to use cookies in accordance with the GDPR. 

75.   In the present case,  the  Litigation Chamber  notes that the defendant  has rectified  the 

above-mentioned breaches of the principle of transparency by modifying its website. The 

breach of the principle of transparency identified in the IS report is therefore no longer 

relevant. 

IV.3- As regards the breaches of articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR 

76.  The IS report also states that the defendant's Privacy Policy document does not comply 

with articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR, firstly because the information contained therein is 

not  always  concise,  transparent  and  understandable,  and  secondly  because  it  is 

incomplete. 

 

 

IV.3.1- As regards the fact that the information is not always transparent and understandable  

77.  The IS considers that the information in the defendant's Privacy Policy document is not 

always transparent and understandable for several reasons. 

78.  A- Firstly, the IS notes that the language used is not consistent and logical, since the terms  

"personal  information"  and  "private  data"  are  used,  whereas  the  GDPR  systematically 

refers to "personal data.”  

79.  As mentioned above, article 12 of the GDPR requires that the information to be provided 

under  articles  13  and  14  of  the  GDPR  be  communicated  "in  a  concise,  transparent, 

intelligible  and  easily  accessible  form,  using  clear  and  plain  language."  The  Article  29 

Working  Party  states  in  its  Transparency  Guidelines16  that  "the  requirement  that  such 

information be 'understandable' means that it should be comprehensible to the majority of 

the intended audience. Understandability is closely linked to the requirement to use clear 

and simple language.” 

80.  The Litigation Chamber considers that the defendant should be followed when it explains 

that the GDPR does not require the use of the term "personal data", and that the terms 

"personal  information"  and  "private  data"  can  be  understood  by  the  majority  of  the 

 

15  https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/citoyen/themes/internet/cookies.  See  also  the  CNIL  website  "Questions  and 
Answers  on 
the  Amending  Guidelines  and  Recommendation  on  Cookies  and  other  Tracers"  available  at 
https://www.cnil.fr/fr/questions-reponses-lignes-directrices-modificatives-et-recommandation-cookies-traceurs. 

16 Article 29 Working Party, "Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679", Revised version adopted on 11 April 
2018, WP260 rev.01, 17/EN, p.8. 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 19/31 

intended audience (especially in the context of reading the paragraphs using them), and 

that they can be considered as synonyms.  

81.  The Chamber further notes that the defendant now only uses the term "personal data" in 

its updated Privacy Policy document. 

82.  This claim of breach made by the IS is therefore null and void. 

83.  B-  Secondly,  the  IS  argues  that  the  warning  of  "undesirable  consequences"  in  case  of 

refusal  of  cookies  is  not  comprehensible  and  therefore  prevents  free  consent,  since  it 

does not explain what these undesirable consequences are. 

84.  The Article 29 Working Party put it in this way: 

"A key aspect of the transparency principle highlighted in these provisions is that  the data 

subject  should  be  able  to  determine  in  advance  what  the  scope  and  consequences  of  the 

processing encompass so that he or she is not taken by surprise at a later stage as to how his 

or her personal data have been used. This is also an important aspect of the fairness principle 

under Article 5(1) of the GDPR, which is also linked to Recital 39, which states that “Natural 

persons  should  be  made  aware  of  risks,  rules,  safeguards  and  rights  in  relation  to  the 

processing  of  personal  data.”  More  specifically,  with  regard  to  complex,  technical  or 

unscheduled data processing, the position of the G29 is that controllers should, in addition to 

providing the information set out in articles 13 and 14 (dealt with later in these Guidelines), 

separately and clearly define the main consequences of the processing: in other words, what 

the effect of the specific processing described in a privacy statement or notice will actually 

be  for  the  data  subject.  In  line  with  the  principle  of  accountability  and  in  accordance  with 

Recital 39, controllers should assess whether there are specific risks for the natural person 

data subjects affected such processing that should be brought to the attention of the data 

subjects. Such an assessment could provide an overview of the types of processing that are 

likely to have the greatest impact on the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects 

with regard to the protection of their personal data.”17 (our underlining) 

 

85.  According to the defendant, it is clear that the words 'undesirable consequences', read in 

context, refer to the use of the site, which does not function optimally in the event of the 

rejection  of  an  essential  cookie.  It  points  out  that  this  warning  is  repeated  in  several 

different places on the site, and that in the new version of the site, a table explaining the 

effects of rejecting cookies has been added. 

86.  The  Litigation  Chamber  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  use  of  these  terms  allows  users  to 

understand the practical consequence of rejecting the cookie. Nevertheless, beyond the 

17 Ibid 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 20/31 

question  of  clearly  informing  the  user  of  the  "undesirable  consequences"  (namely,    the 

impossibility to use the site or   only in a limited way) resulting from  the rejection of the 

cookie,  the  Litigation  Chamber  stresses  that  this  practice  of  "cookie  wall"  cannot  be 

considered as a violation of the law. In the alternative, the Litigation Chamber points out 

that  this  "cookie  wall"  practice  can  only  be  permitted  d  when  the  rejected  cookie  is  a 

strictly necessary cookie (as opposed to a non-functional cookie) (see below, part IV.7.2 on 

this subject). 

87.  Therefore, it can be reasonably argued by the defendant that these terms refer sufficiently 

clearly to the use of the website. 

88.  C- Finally, the IS report argues that the reference to "additional information" about cookies 

on  the  Google,  Firefox,  Windows  sites  on  the  defendant's  website 

is  also  not 

understandable without further explanation. 

89.  The defendant argues that this referral to "additional information" on cookies in the main 

browsers  (Google,  Firefox,  Windows)  is  common  practice.  It  states  that  most  websites 

using cookies do the same, including the DPA website. The defendant argues that the site 

even  has  an  additional 

information  section  called  "Familiarise  yourself  with  your 

computer's  privacy  settings",  which  provides  concrete  explanations  with  supporting 

images. 

90.  In  this  context,  the  Litigation  Chamber  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  reference  to  the 

"additional  information"  on  cookies  in  the  browsers  (Google,  Firefox,  Windows)  is 

sufficiently comprehensible for the user.  

IV.3.2- As regards the fact that the information is not complete  

 

91.  The IS then argues that the information in the defendant's Privacy Policy document is not 

complete for two reasons. 

92.  A - Firstly, the IS points out that the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time 

is  not  mentioned  for  the  processing  of  personal  data,  but  only  for  the  management  of 

cookies. 

93.  Article 7.3 of the GDPR sets strict conditions for the withdrawal of valid consent: (a) The 

data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time, (b) the data 

subject shall be informed thereof and (c) it shall be as easy to withdraw as to give consent. 

Pursuant to article 129, last paragraph of the ECL, the controller is obliged to give "free of 

charge" the possibility to the end-users of the terminal equipment concerned "to withdraw 

the consent in a simple way." 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 21/31 

94.  This right to withdraw consent must therefore be the subject of prior information (article 

7(3)(b)) and must also be read in conjunction with the requirement of fair and transparent 

processing  within  the  meaning  of  article  5  and  article  13(2)(c)  of  the  GDPR.  No  or 

incomplete information on the right to withdraw consent would imply that consent would 

de facto be given for an infinite period of time and that the data subject would be deprived 

of the right to withdraw consent. These rules apply to both "first party" cookies and "third 

party" cookies. 

95.  The  defendant  replies  that,  except  for  analytical  cookies  (and  in  the  rare  cases  where 

personal data is contained in a contact form), the site does not process personal data for 

which consent is required. However, the privacy policy statement indicates that users of 

the site can delete cookies, which, according to the defendant, unequivocally amounts to 

withdrawing their consent. It submits that the additional mention of the existence of the 

right to withdraw consent was not necessary. 

96.  The defendant adds that the DPA does the same on its own website, i.e. also uses analytical 

cookies  on  the  basis  of  consent  (and  contact  forms),  without  explicitly  mentioning  the 

'right to withdraw consent' in its 'Data Protection Statement.' 

97.  The Litigation Chamber notes that in the current version of the "Protection of your privacy" 

page,  a  specific  reference  to  the  existence  of  the  right  to  withdraw  consent  for  the 

processing  of  personal  data  has  been  inserted,  and  considers  that  the  information  is 

sufficiently complete. 

 

IV. 4- As regards breaches of article 30 of the GDPR 

98.  The IS also points out that the processing register does not mention the third countries to 

which several categories of personal data are transmitted, but merely refers to documents 

of subcontractors with whom it has concluded agreements. 

99.  The defendant replies that the register is based on a European regulator's model, which 

includes  cross-references.  It  explains  that  it  works  with  various  US  subcontractors 

providing cloud computing services, and that the information on these third countries may 

vary depending on their servers and types of services. It adds that the purpose of cross-

referencing  these  subcontractors'  documents  is  to  have  complete  and  up-to-date 

information at all times. It also clarified that this concerns only a few boxes in the register, 

that the rest of the register is completed in accordance with the GDPR, and that the GDPR 

does not prohibit this. 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 22/31 

100. The Litigation Chamber strongly recommends that the third countries be indicated and 

easily identifiable in the processing register, particularly in view of the recent case law of 

the CJUE in terms of transfers to third countries18. Thus, the Litigation Chamber, on the 

basis of article 100.9 of the LCA,  orders the defendant to adapt its processing register by 

clearly  indicating  the  third  countries  to  which  personal  data  are  sent  in  order  to  better 

comply with the case law of the CJEU. 

IV. 5- A regards breaches of articles 24 and 32 of the GDPR 

101. The IS complains that the protocol (url link) used is http and not https, as this constitutes 

a breach of the security obligation. 

102. The  defendant  replies  that,  since  15  January  2020,  the  site  has  switched  to  the  https 

protocol. It also explains that this migration had been an ongoing project since 2014, but 

that its implementation had been long and difficult due to the fact that it had to collaborate 

with  all  its  members  (more  than  one  hundred).  The  defendant  adds  that    since  its  site 

handles little personal data, the risks to data subjects were low, and that given the risk-

based approach of the GDPR, this migration to https was not strictly necessary. 

103. Without ruling further on this matter, the Litigation Chamber notes the migration of the 

site  to  the  https  protocol,  and  notes  that  the  claim  of  breach  made  in  the  IS  report  is 

therefore no longer relevant. 

 

 

IV. 6- With regard to breaches of articles 24 and 37 of the GDPR 

 

104. Furthermore, the IS complains that there is no official decision documenting the choice of 

whether or not to appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO), and that the defendant should 

have appointed a DPO because it uses a cookie that allows for "regular  and systematic 

large-scale tracking of data subjects.” 

105. The  defendant  points  out  that  the  GDPR  does  not  require  a  formal  procedure  for  the 

decision to appoint a DPO or not, and that documenting the reasons for the decision not to 

appoint one is a recommendation and not an obligation. 

106. Secondly,  concerning  the  cookie  which,  according  to  the  IS,  allows  "regular  and 

systematic large-scale tracking of data subjects", the defendant replies that the cookie 

has not been used since April 2020. It adds that even when it was used, this cookie did not 

justify the appointment of a DPO because this cookie was not an identifier since it was the 

18  Judgment of the Court of 16 July 2020, C-311/18, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559. ("Schrems II case") 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 23/31 

same for everyone and therefore did not allow a user to be tracked. Nevertheless, insofar 

as this cookie contained personal data, it made it possible to identify data subjects.      

107. The defendant argues that there was no "large-scale tracking", and that even if its cookies 

allowed for "systematic and large-scale tracking" -quod non-, this would still have to be a 

"core activity" of the defendant, which was not the case (the proof of which being that it 

continues its same activities today but without the cookie in question).  

108. The Litigation Chamber is of the opinion that the defendant can reasonably argue that the 

GDPR does not require a formal procedure to be followed as to the decision to appoint a 

DPO or  not,  and  that documenting  the reasons for the decision  not to appoint one is  a 

recommendation and not an obligation.      

109. As  regards  the  obligation  to  appoint  a  DPO,  the  Litigation  Chamber  recalls  the 

requirement of article 37(1)(b) of the GDPR, according to which the Data Controller must 

appoint a DPO if "the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing 

operations  which,  by  virtue  of  their  nature,  their  scope  and/or  their  purposes,  require 

regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale.” This article should be 

read  in  conjunction  with  the  Guidelines  on  Data  Protection  Officers  of  the  Article  29 

Working Party19. In the absence of "systematic and large-scale monitoring", there can be 

no finding of a breach of article 37 of the GDPR.  

 

 

IV.7- As to the content of the complaint  

110. Having considered the breaches raised by the IS, the Litigation Chamber examines below 

the grievances as expressed by the complainant in his complaint. 

111. As  mentioned  above  in  paragraphs  12-14,  the  complainant  raises  two  claims  in  his 

complaint. Firstly, he states that the tool for selecting advertising preferences does not 

work, in that the cookie opt-out option for many third parties does not work (even if he 

clicks on the opt-out option, the opt-in option automatically resets). He thus argues that 

his consent to these cookies is forced and therefore not free in the sense of article 4.11 

and 7 of the GDPR.  

112. He also complains that the website forces the user to accept cookies in order to be able 

to  select  his  advertising  preferences.  The  cookie  in  question  informs  the  defendant 

whether  or  not  the  user's  browser  accepts  cookies  from  third  parties.  The  Litigation 

19 WP243rev. 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 24/31 

Chamber  understands that the plaintiff objects to  the placement of the cookie and the 

subsequent processing of his personal data by the defendant. 

IV.7.1- Concerning the complainant's first grievance, relating to the malfunctioning of the 

tool for choosing advertising preferences 

 

113. In response to the complainant's first complaint, the defendant asserts that it was clearly 

indicated on its site (in the preferences selection tool itself  and in the General Terms of 

Use) that if ad blocking software was used, the selection tool might not work. It is also clear 

from the printscreen of the complainant's browser in the IS report that the complainant 

does use such software. The IS report (based in particular on the technical analysis report 

which  includes  a  test  of  the  proper  functioning  of  the  control  tool)  does  not  raise  any 

malfunctioning of the control tool. Consequently, the Litigation Chamber cannot  accede 

to the complainant's claim that his consent was forced, in violation of articles 4.11 and 7 of 

the GDPR.     

IV.7.2- As regards the complainant's claim that the defendant's website requires the user 

to accept cookies in order to use the site, the so-called "cookie wall" practice 

114. Before examining the specific issue of the cookie wall, the Litigation Chamber considers 

it useful to recall the rules on consent for educational purposes. 

 

IV.7.2.1- Concerning the criteria for valid consent 

 

115. Article  4.11  of  the  GDPR  defines  "consent"  of  the  data  subject  as  "any  freely  given, 

specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject’s wishes by which he or 

she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action." 

116. Article 7 of the GDPR also sets out the conditions for consent: 

"1. Where processing is based on consent, the controller shall be able to demonstrate that 
the data subject has consented to processing of his or her personal data. 
 
2.   If the data subject’s consent is given in the context of a written declaration which also 
concerns other matters, the request for consent shall be presented in a manner which is 
clearly distinguishable from the other matters, in an intelligible and easily accessible form, 
using  clear  and  plain  language.  Any  part  of  such  a  declaration  which  constitutes  an 
infringement of this Regulation shall not be binding. 
 
3.   The data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time. The 
withdrawal  of  consent  shall  not  affect  the  lawfulness  of  processing  based  on  consent 
before its withdrawal. Prior to giving consent, the data subject shall be informed thereof. 
4It shall be as easy to withdraw as to give consent. 
 
4.   When assessing whether consent is freely given, utmost account shall be taken of 
whether, inter alia, the performance of a contract, including the provision of a service, is 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 25/31 

conditional on consent to the processing of personal data that is not necessary for the 
performance of that contract.”  

117. Therefore, according  to  recital  43 of the  GDPR  "Consent is presumed  not to  be freely 

given  if  it  does  not  allow  separate  consent  to  be  given  to  different  personal  data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case." 

118. Furthermore,  article 5.3 of the e-Privacy Directive, as transposed by Article 129 of the 

ECA,  sets  the  condition  that  the  user  "has  given  their  consent"  for  the  placement  and 

consultation  of  cookies  on  his  terminal  equipment,  with  the  exception  of  the  technical 

recording  of  information  or  the  provision  of  a  service  expressly  requested  by  the 

subscriber  or  end-user  where  the  placement  of  a  cookie  is  strictly  necessary  for  this 

purpose.  

119. As mentioned above, a cookie is considered to be "functional" if it is necessary to send a 

communication  via  an  electronic  communications  network  or  to  provide  a  specifically 

requested service. 

120. Recital  17  of  the  e-Privacy  Directive  specifies  that  for  its  application,  the  notion  of 

"consent" must have the same meaning as "consent of the data subject", as defined and 

specified in the Data Protection Directive 95/4620, now replaced by the GDPR. 

121. In the Planet49 judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union clarified the consent 

requirement for the placement of cookies following the entry into force of the GDPR and 

explained that explicit active consent is now required: 

"Active  consent  is  now,  therefore,  expressly  provided  for  by  Regulation  2016/6.  It  is 

important to note in this respect that, according to recital 32 of this regulation, consent 

could be ticking a box when visiting an internet website. However, this recital specifically 

states….”Silence, pre-ticked boxes or inactivity should not therefore constitute consent.” 

It follows that the consent referred to in articles 2(f) and 5(3) of Directive 2002/58, read 

in conjunction with articles 4(11) and 6(1)(a) of Regulation 2016/679, is not validly given 

where the storage of information or access to information already stored in the terminal 

equipment of the user of a website is authorised by a default tick box which the user must 

untick in order to refuse to give consent."21 

 

 

 

20 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals 

with regard to the processing of personal data and the free flow of such data. 

21 Planet49 judgment, paragraphs 61 and 62 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 26/31 

122. The consent must also be "specific.” The Litigation Chamber refers to the Guidelines on 

consent under Regulation 2016/67922 which have been ratified by the EDPB: 

"Article 6(1)(a) confirms that the data subject's consent must be given in relation to "one 

or more specific purposes" and that the data subject has a choice "with regard to each of 

these  purposes"23.  This  means  "that  a  controller  seeking  consent  for  various  specific 

purposes  should  provide  separate  consent  for  each  purpose  so  that  users  can  give 

consent specific to specific purposes." 24 

 

123. In  particular,  the  user  of  the  website  should  be  provided  with  information  on  how  to 

express his or her wishes regarding cookies, and how he or she can "accept all, some or 

none"25. 

124. For  example,  confirming  a  purchase  or  accepting  general  terms  and  conditions  is 

therefore not sufficient to consider that consent has been validly given to the placement 

or reading of cookies. Nor can consent be given for the mere "use" of cookies, without any 

further specification as to the data collected via these cookies or as to the purposes for 

which these data are collected. The GDPR does indeed require a more detailed choice than 

a simple "all or nothing", but it does not require consent for each individual cookie. If the 

manager of a website or mobile application seeks consent for several types of cookies, the 

user must have the choice to give consent (or refuse) for each type of cookie, or even, in a 

second layer of information, for each cookie individually. 

125. This  position 

is  also  defended  by  the  CNIL,  which  considers  that  the  fact  of 

"simultaneously collecting a single consent for several processing operations for distinct 

purposes (purpose matching), without the possibility of accepting or refusing purpose by 

purpose, is also likely to affect, in certain cases, the user's freedom of choice and therefore 

the validity of his or her consent.”26 

126. In  this  respect,  the  Litigation  Chamber  refers  to  the  Data  Protection  Working  Party's 

Guidelines  on  how  to  obtain  consent.  According  to  the  Data  Protection  Working  Party, 

consent must be obtained per cookie or per category of cookies27. 

22  Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679, 

 

WP259, p. 4 

23 Ibid, p. 14. 

24 Ibid, p. 14. 

25 Data Protection Working Party, Working Document 02/2013, setting out guidelines on the collection of 

consent for the deposit of cookies, p. 3, https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/publications/groupe-art29/wp208_fr.pdf 

26 Deliberation No. 2020-091 of 17 September 2020 adopting guidelines on the application of Article 82 of the amended Act of 
6 January 1978 to read and write operations on a user's terminal (in particular "cookies and other trackers") and repealing 
Deliberation No. 2019-093 of 4 July 2019, points 17-19 

27 Ibid. 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 27/31 

IV.7.2.2- Concerning the complainant's second grievance and the "cookie wall" practice 

127. As regards the complainant's second complaint (i.e. that he is obliged to accept cookies 

in  order  to  be  able  to  select  his  advertising  preferences  and  that  he  opposes  the 

subsequent processing of his personal data), the Litigation Chamber recalls that consent 

must be free. Indeed, as mentioned above, the GDPR requires that " utmost account shall 

be taken of whether, inter alia, the performance of a contract, including the provision of a 

service, is conditional on consent to the processing of personal data that is not necessary 

for the performance of that contract.” According to recital 42 of the GDPR, which clarifies 

the requirement of freedom of consent laid down in article 4 of the GDPR, "consent should 

not be regarded as freely given if the data subject has no genuine or free choice or is unable 

to refuse or withdraw consent without detriment.”  

128. In its recent guidelines28, the EDPB condemns the practice of making the provision of a 

service or access to a website conditional on the acceptance of write or read operations 

on the user's terminal, or "cookie wall.” It states that "In order for consent to be freely given, 

access to services and functionalities should not be conditional on a user's consent to the 

storage  of  information,  or  access  to  information  already  stored,  on  a  user's  terminal 

equipment.” The EDPB adds, regarding consent, that: 

"The Data Controller must demonstrate that it is possible to refuse or withdraw consent 

without suffering any prejudice (recital 42). For example, the controller must prove that 

withdrawing consent does not incur costs for the data subject and that there is therefore 

no obvious disadvantage for those withdrawing consent. 

 

47.  Other  examples  of  harm  are  deception,  intimidation,  coercion  or  any  significant 

negative consequences if the data subject refuses to give consent. The Data Controller 

should be able to demonstrate that the data subject has a genuine choice as to whether 

or not to consent and that consent can be withdrawn without suffering harm. 

 

48. If a controller can demonstrate that a service includes the possibility of withdrawing 

consent without suffering negative consequences, i.e. without the quality of the service 

being diminished to the detriment of the user, this may constitute evidence that consent 

has been freely given. The GDPR does not exclude all incentives, but it will be up to the 

Data  Controller  to  demonstrate  that  consent  was 

indeed  freely  given 

in  all 

circumstances." 

 

 

28 EDPB, Guidelines 5/2020 on consent under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, 4 May 2020, point 39, p.13 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 28/31 

129. The guidelines include concrete examples: 

“49. Example 8: When a user downloads a mobile application from the "lifestyle" category, 

the application asks for her consent to access the phone's accelerometer. This access is 

not necessary for the functioning of the application, but is useful for the controller to know 

more about the movements and activity levels of its users. When the user later withdraws 

her consent, she discovers that the application only works in a restricted way. This is an 

example of harm in the sense of Recital 42, which means that consent was never validly 

obtained  (and  the  controller  must  therefore  delete  all  personal  data  on  the  users' 

movements collected in this way). 

 

Example 9: A data subject subscribes to a newsletter of a fashion retailer with general 

discounts. The retailer asks for the data subject's consent to collect more data about his 

or her shopping preferences in order to tailor offers to his or her preferences based on his 

or her purchase history or on a voluntary questionnaire. If the data subject later withdraws 

consent, he or she will again receive non-personalised discounts. This is not a loss, as only 

the permitted incentive will have been lost. 

 

51. Example 10: A fashion magazine gives its readers the opportunity to buy new make-

up products before their official launch. 

 

52. The products will soon be available on the market, but readers of this magazine will 

benefit from an exclusive preview of these products. In order to take advantage of this 

benefit,  readers  must  provide  their  postal  address  and  consent  to  be  put  on  the 

magazine's mailing list. The postal address is required for shipping and the mailing list is 

used  to  send  out  commercial  offers  for  products  such  as  cosmetics  and  t-shirts 

throughout the year. 

 

53. The company explains that the data on the mailing list will only be used  for sending 

products and advertising flyers by the magazine itself and will not be shared with other 

organisations under any circumstances. 

 

54. If the reader does not wish to reveal his or her address for this purpose, he or she will 

not suffer any prejudice as long as the products are still accessible to him or her.” 

 

130. The defendant responds to the complaint raised by the complainant in its submissions by 

asserting, that the service provided via the advertising preferences tool relies on the use 

of cookies sent by the participating companies in several places on the site in question, 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 29/31 

and that if the user does not wish to receive cookies, then he or she should not use the 

service. More specifically, it states in its submissions (p19): 

• 

"The very first page of the YOC website (the one from which you can choose a country 

and language), contains a link entitled "How does this website work?”, which leads to a 

page which states: 

"When using the control tool function, small text files called "cookies" are used by many 

of the companies listed to check your current status and make the choice you wish to 

make. These files are essential to this feature and help identify errors in its functionality. 

If you wish to ensure that these cookies are not used, please see our top five tips for more 

details on how to manage cookies in your browser's privacy settings. However, if you do 

so, the monitoring tool will no longer work effectively" (exhibit 9 - pages 1 and 2). 

•  The terms and conditions governing the use of the YOC Website and the YOC Tool state 

that: 

"In  order  to  use  the  YourOnlineChoices  website,  it  is  necessary  for  each  of  the 

participating companies to place a cookie on your web browser (the preference cookie) 

so that we can remember your selections. Information about cookies is available in our 

privacy policy: [… ]. If you use the YourOnlineChoices website with a different computer or 

browser,  or  if  you  delete/delete  your  cookies,  we  will  not  be  able  to  remember  your 

preferences.  You  will  have  to  return  to  the  YourOnlineChoices  website  to  select  your 

preferences again. In addition, the YourOnlineChoices website will not function properly 

if your browser is set to block cookies, as your preferences cannot be saved without the 

use of the preference cookie" (exhibit 9 - page 3). 

 

•  The "Protecting your privacy" page states: 

"This website covers the European Union/European Economic Area (EU/EEA), as well as 

Switzerland and Turkey and includes an easy-to-use feature (which any user can access 

from any of the listed countries) that will disable online behavioural advertising for users 

(of participating companies) who choose to do so [...] Please note that disabling cookies 

for this purpose will prevent the control tool from working." 

131. The Litigation Chamber notes that the user is therefore well informed of the fact that the 

use of these preference cookies is necessary for the functioning of the site, and that the 

site  imposes  on  him/her  the  choice  between  accepting  this  system  or  not  using  the 

website. The Chamber underlines that this reasoning can only be followed insofar as the 

cookies are strictly necessary, as they do not require the user's consent. In this case, the 

 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 30/31 

processing is not based on consent, but on the legitimate interest  of the data controller 

(article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR).    

132. Conversely, this reasoning must be rejected in cases where the cookies are not strictly 

necessary. Indeed, the user must be able to accept or refuse, for each application and each 

website,  the  deposit  of  non-functional  cookies  without  constraint,  pressure  or  external 

influence. This requirement implies, in particular, that the user may not be denied certain 

services or benefits on the grounds that he or she has not consented to the use of non-

functional cookies. A user who refuses a cookie requiring consent must be able to continue 

to benefit from the service, such as access to a site.  

133. In this case, as the cookie in question is strictly necessary, the complainant's complaint 

cannot be upheld. There is therefore no breach of article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR in relation to 

the practice of "cookie walls."  

134.  In view of the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the 

Litigation Chamber and in accordance with Article 100, §1, 16° of the DPA Act, this decision 

is  published  on  the  website  of  the  Data  Protection  Authority.    In  view  of  the  previous 

publicity surrounding this case, as well as the general interest to the public, the Litigation 

Chamber has decided not to delete the direct identification data of the parties and persons 

mentioned, whether natural or legal persons.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Decision on the merits 11/2022 - 31/31 

PAR CES MOTIFS,  

ON THESE GROUNDS,  

THE LITIGATION CHAMBER  

Rules, after deliberation:  

-  On the basis of article 100, § 1, 9° of the LCA, an  order for  compliance of the defendant's 

processing register, as mentioned above 

-  On the basis of article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA, a reprimand. 

 

Pursuant to Article 108 (1) of the LCA, this decision may be appealed to the Contracts Court (“Cour 

des  marchés")  (Brussels  Court  of  Appeal)  within  30  days  of  its  notification,  with  the  Data 

Protection Authority as the defendant. 

 

 

 

 

   

 

Hielke Hijmans  

President of the Litigation Chamber 

