
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    12/21/2020
                                Data protection is maintained with corona vaccinations – Kugelmann sees no concerns about vaccinations. Many people in Germany have high hopes that vaccinations against the corona virus will start soon. It goes without saying that the informational self-determination of the citizens must also be preserved. When the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of Health set up the infrastructure for the vaccinations, the expertise of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate was used to ensure the protection of data related to voluntary vaccinations. This shows once again that data protection and health protection go hand in hand. In the context of vaccinations, various data protection issues need to be discussed, such as: by whom and in what form is the data about the people to be vaccinated collected? How are the vaccinations documented in the vaccination centers and how is the data stored? How are the people to be vaccinated informed about their data protection rights?
The state data protection officer, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, explains: "Organizing and conducting hundreds of thousands of vaccinations is a huge challenge for everyone involved. In addition to medical and logistical issues, data protection aspects must also be taken into account. It must be ensured, for example, that the people who are vaccinated want to be informed at all times about which of your data is processed as part of the vaccination and what happens to this information. As the state authority, we were involved in setting up the vaccination structures at an early stage. Our suggestions, particularly with regard to the transparency of data processing, were all met As things stand at present, I am therefore convinced that data protection will be fully protected with the upcoming vaccinations. However, as the data protection supervisory authority, we will closely monitor in the coming months whether this is also the case. The actors involved in the vaccinations I remain available should there be any specific need for clarification in this context."
In the past few weeks, the LfDI has been involved in preparing the data protection information in accordance with Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which is given to people who want to be vaccinated. The information letters explain, for example, what data is collected and stored when arranging a vaccination appointment and with the vaccination. For example, personal data such as name, address, possible contraindications (e.g. pregnancy or chronic illnesses) and information on previous illnesses (e.g. taking certain medications) are recorded. The information letter also explains which data is stored for vaccination documentation and who those affected can contact with data protection questions.
Kugelmann says: "In the coming months, it will be important for as many people as possible to be able to be vaccinated and want to be vaccinated. There must be a high level of awareness of vaccination in society as a whole. As the state data protection officer, I want to make my contribution to ensure that no one has to fear that their health data is not secure as part of the vaccinations. It must and will be ensured, for example, that only authorized persons can find out who has been vaccinated and who has refused it. The clear goal is: nobody should be able to say that this is due to data protection -The vaccinations and the vaccination procedure are problematic."
                                return
                            



