1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00039/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: MUNICIPAL CONSUMER INSTITUTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
MADRID (hereinafter, the claimant) on July 8, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against INSTALACIONES F. LAINA SL with NIF B83478479
(hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are non-compliance with the regulations of
data protection on the website www.lainainstalaciones.com

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/07898/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party, on October 6, 2020, so that he could proceed with his
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations,
stating the claimed on November 2, 2020 that he has proceeded to the
update of this website.

THIRD: On March 10, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations dated March 23, 2021 providing your privacy policy:

“We are INSTALACIONES F.LAINA, S.L with CIF B83478479 and address in RIVAS
VACIAMADRID
the Web
www.lainainstalaciones.com responsible for the processing of your personal data, your
uses and protection.

(MADRID),

  BILBAO,

,Spain,

  of

  Four. Five

headline

 

The use of the services of the Website, as well as the acquisition of any of the
products offered, implies your acceptance as a Client, without reservations of any kind,
of all the statements contained in this Privacy Policy and in the
General conditions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

Your registration on the website and the use of its services means that the personal data you
you have provided in the registration form as a Client will become part of les
for its treatment with the purpose, legitimacy, assignments and conservation periods that
detailed below, and that you declare to know and accept by pressing the action button of the
form.

For what purpose do we use your data?

Address queries, suggestions or requests you make to us through the web.

What personal data will we request from you? The data that we will request will be:

Identification data: ID, name, surnames, address, email, telephone.

Contact information: Name, email, telephone

In the Cookies Policy you can find what other type of information we will collect from
through the use of cookies.

Remember that all the data that we request as mandatory are the minimum
necessary to be able to provide you with the service or allow you access to certain
web functionality.

If you decide not to provide this information, you may not be able to complete your registration or you may not
We may provide you with certain services or features.

Why do we use your data?

The legitimacy for the treatment of your data comes from the fact that we need to treat them
to execute the contract that you accept with us when registering and when enjoying our
services or features.

There are other reasons such as our interest in attending to your queries or requests and the
consent you give us to be able to send you our commercial information.

How long do we keep your data?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

Your personal data will be kept for as long as your account remains
active user. Remember that you can cancel it at any time by request
to the email facilities aina@hotmail.com.

Once the account has been cancelled, your personal data will be kept blocked during the
period required by tax legislation for the prescription of responsibilities in the
if you have made any purchase of products.

In any other case, your personal data will be kept for a period of 3
months from your decision to cancel, in case some type of
responsibilities.

Once the deadlines are over, the data will be deleted from our records.

With whom do we share your data?

For the fulfillment of the expressed purposes, your personal data will be
communicated to auxiliary service providers that facilitate the management or our
legal obligations, such as transport companies, tax advice and
legal and web hosting among others.

We will also transfer your personal data to Public Organizations or Administrations to the
that we are bound by legal requirement.

You can request a list of these companies and organization through our email
facilities aina@hotmail.com

What rights do you have over your personal data?

Regardless of the legal justification with which we have carried out the treatment of
your personal data, you have a series of rights that you can exercise before
INSTALACIONES F LAINA, S.L, by sending an email to the facilities
aina@hotmail.com

Right of access to your data that we have about you.

Right to rectification of personal data, in case they are not true.

Right to delete your data to the extent that they are no longer necessary for the
purpose for which we need to treat them or that we no longer have legitimacy to
do it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

You can request it by email to Instalaciones laina@hotmail.com attaching a copy of
your ID. When you exercise this right of deletion, we will block your personal data
for any type of treatment during the conservation period that we have
indicated above. And once it has elapsed, we will proceed to its elimination.
definitive.

Right to limit the processing of your data, which means that in certain
cases you can ask us to temporarily suspend the processing of the data or
that we keep them beyond the necessary time when you may need it.

Right to request the portability of your personal data.

This means that you will have the right to receive the personal data that you have provided to us.
in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format, in order to
transmit it to another entity directly, whenever technically possible. –

You can also file a claim with the supervisory authority regarding
data protection, in particular, before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Changes in the Privacy Policy

We may adapt or modify the information contained in this Privacy Policy.
Privacy when we deem it convenient or incorporate new functionalities in
the platform that so require. If we do, we will notify you by
an informative banner on the website itself.

We advise you to periodically review this Privacy Policy.”

FIFTH: On April 27, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency direct the
INSTALACIONES F. LAINA SL, with NIF B83478479, for an infringement of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SIXTH: On May 3, 2021, allegations are submitted to the proposal for
resolution issued by this Agency, indicating that it has proceeded to the correction of
its privacy policy in relation to the legitimacy for data processing,
indicating the following:

“For the fulfillment of a contract and/or service provision relationship. with his
consent to respond to your queries or any issue arising from our
contractual or pre-contractual relationship, as well as attend to your requests or requests
made through our contact form.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The breach of the data protection regulations in the
website www.lainainstalaciones.com for violating article 13 of the RGPD

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

SECOND: On March 23, 2021, the respondent files a brief alleging that his
current privacy policy is adjusted to law.

THIRD: It is verified that the claimed party has corrected his data privacy policy
in relation to the legitimacy for data processing.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47,
64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued
in its development and, as long as they are not contradicted, on a subsidiary basis, by the rules
general administrative procedures.”

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), under the heading "Definitions",
provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment of
data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD.

In relation to this matter, it is noted that the Spanish Data Protection Agency
has at the disposal of citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of the duty to inform
(https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and, in case of
carry out low-risk data processing, the free tool Facilitates
(https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:

“1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge
of the treatment, at the moment in which these are obtained, will provide you with all the information
indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of his representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment.
treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if applicable;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of a decision on the adequacy of the
Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or the
article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to adequate guarantees or
appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact that they have been
borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained, the
following information necessary to ensure fair data processing and
transparent:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible,
the criteria used to determine this term;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

b) the existence of the right to request access to the data from the data controller
related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent
prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement
necessary to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide the data
personal and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
refers to article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
on the logic applied, as well as the importance and the foreseen consequences of said
treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
in which the interested party already has the information”.

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article 13
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to which
refers to the following section and indicating an electronic address or other means that
allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for profiling, the
basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the affected
must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of individual decisions
automated that produce legal effects on him or significantly affect him in any way
similarly, when this right concurs in accordance with the provisions of article 22
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of powers
corrective measures in the event of a violation of the provisions of the RGPD.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”

(...)

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period;

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;"

Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD establishes that:

  “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:

  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13 and
14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In this case, it has been found that the website did not have a privacy policy
adequate, since the legitimizing basis for the processing of personal data
staff was not accurate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

It has been found that the respondent has recently updated said web page,
establishing as a legitimate basis for the processing of personal data the
Next:

“For the fulfillment of a contract and/or service provision relationship. with his
consent to respond to your queries or any issue arising from our
contractual or pre-contractual relationship, as well as attend to your requests or requests
made through our contact form.
Despite this, it should be noted that the warning for the data continues to be maintained.
data that were collected without adequately informing clients, which
constitutes an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD.
However, a warning will be sent without the need to adopt measures by
of the claimed, since it has already been proceeded by this to the generation of a policy of
adequate privacy.

SAW

Faced with this infraction, a warning is issued, in accordance with article 58.2.b)
of the RGPD, when collecting through said form basic data of the users and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the treatment of
personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS INSTALACIONES F. LAINA SL, with NIF B83478479, for a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to INSTALACIONES F. LAINA SL, with
NIF B83478479
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

