




Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
of the federal and state governments from December 28, 2020
Preliminary legal certainty for data transfers to the United Kingdom - draft Brexit agreement offers a four-month transition period from January 1, 2021







No.20201230
|
12/30/2020
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) points out to companies, authorities and other institutions in Germany that the final provisions of the draft trade and cooperation agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union provide for new transitional regulations for data transfers which prevents the serious legal uncertainties previously feared (Article 10A Interim provision for transmission of personal data to the United Kingdom, p. 406 ff.).
Accordingly, transfers of personal data from the EU to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland should not be regarded as transfers to a third country (Article 44 GDPR) for a transitional period. This period begins when the Agreement comes into force and ends when the EU Commission has made adequacy decisions relating to the United Kingdom pursuant to Art. 45 (3) GDPR and Art. 36 (3) Directive (EU) 2016/680, after four months at the latest. This end date can be extended by two months if none of the parties involved objects.
Andreas Schurig: "For the time being, transfers to the United Kingdom are still possible under the previous conditions. Serious difficulties for the companies concerned are thus avoided for the time being. However, the EU Commission is now obliged to present viable adequacy decisions that also reflect current case law of the European Court of Justice and will have to be carefully examined by the Member States as well as by the European Data Protection Board."
Questions to Mr. Andreas Schneider, spokesman for the Saxon data protection officer, 0351-85471-120; andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de









                Back to overview









