 

press release

 

Opinion of the data protection conference

Contact tracing apps including Luca

 

 

Erfurt, March 29, 2021

 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information
(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse, would like to thank you today for the attached press release
of the conference of data protection officers of the federal and state governments:

 
 

"Opinion of the Conference of Independents

Data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments from March 26th, 2021

 

Contact tracing in times of the corona pandemic

Practical solutions with a high level of protection of personal data

associate

 
Various companies now offer digital solutions for processing the
contact details of customers, guests or event participants. The app "luca"
of the company culture4life GmbH has in recent weeks
special media
experienced interest. Culture4life has several
Supervisory authorities asked for a data protection vote on the solution.
In addition, some countries and counties have expressed an intention to use this app
to introduce and then a connection to the respective health authorities
to manufacture.
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
Countries (DSK) expressly points out that digital processes for processing
of contact and attendance data must be operated in accordance with data protection regulations.
In order to provide nationwide uniform data-saving digital infection tracking
enable, however, there is a lack of legal regulations so far. For this should
nationwide standard-clear specifications for digital contact tracing
be created.
The digitization of contact tracing not only allows the work of
To make health authorities more efficient and organizers
to facilitate compliance with their documentation obligations. You can also in
lead to positive effects in terms of data protection: A digital survey and
Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
Storage can with appropriate
technical design by a
suitable state-of-the-art encryption including one
suitable secure key management compared to paper forms
Better protection of contact data against unauthorized access and misuse
guarantee. Ideally, the data should be encrypted in an end-to-end manner
that the operator of the contact tracing system does not read them either
can. A good contact tracing system also automatically provides the
timely and data protection-compliant data deletion. Another benefit will
achieved when the system its users or the
Event organizers a way to securely transmit data
makes available as soon as the health department has the data for contact tracing
needed. The often practiced transmission by e-mail or fax can then
be minimized. Finally, data subjects can immediately use the app
be taught if after attending a facility or event
a risk of infection becomes known. This notification also takes place in an ideal manner
so that system operators and organizers and their service providers do not
conclusions about the behavior of individuals,
their presence
events or their state of health.
A clear distribution of data protection responsibility for processing
of personal data is a basic requirement for a data protection compliant
Procedure. In addition, the granting of data subject rights must be transparent
and be clearly regulated and the voluntary participation in a digital
Collection to be ensured. As with the paper-based survey, the
strict earmarking specified in the Infection Protection Act, according to which a use
of contact and attendance data
for purposes other than that
Contact tracing is prohibited. This must be carried out by the system operators
technical and organizational measures are secured.
According to DSK's current knowledge, culture4life GmbH has the
the advantages mentioned above have been realized and some of the risks identified so far have been dealt with.
Nevertheless, the DSK calls on the company to make further adjustments to the system
to further increase the protection of the participants.
According to the current design of the Luca system, the
Contact tracing system collects data in one place
saved. So there will be a lot of information about the presence there
by citizens in institutions of all kinds and about their
Participation in events of all kinds. The unauthorized
Depending on the scope, insight into this large database can be difficult
detriment to individuals and the community. Because of this
The members of the DSK will discuss risks with the operator of the Luca system,
to what extent with a decentralized storage, which the DSK in principle for
is considered preferable, the technical concerns of pandemic control and
the legal requirements
to the same extent and with the same efficiency
can be complied with.

 

- 3 -

one

the organizer with

 
 
The developers of the Luca system countered the need for central storage
inherent risk due to the encryption of the stored data. After this
Encryption concept must
any
health department to decrypt the data. The DSK welcomes
the implementation of an encryption in principle. However, all have
Health authorities use the same key to decrypt contact data.
Their administration is in one hand, that of culture4life GmbH. That contains that
avoidable risk of spying on or misusing these keys
unauthorized access to a large number of the data managed centrally by the system
can be accessed. It's the same for the organizers
difficult to verify that a request for decryption is legitimate,
so that they could be tricked into providing data without a legitimate request
decrypt. A successful attack on the systems of culture4life GmbH can
therefore jeopardize the safety of the entire system.
The announced disclosure of the source code of the provided apps, the
Web applications and the centrally operated services will be reviewed by
enable independent third parties. The recently reported malfunction in the
Call number verification underlines, however, that a systematic
Checking for compliance with basic safety principles
for the
Programming of Internet services must be done. The DSK emphasizes that for central
operated services such as the Luca system provide systematic proof of security
of the system is essential and required by the GDPR.
In general, the responsible data protection supervisory authorities will work with the providers
digital solutions for pandemic-related contact tracing
stick to trustworthy, low-risk, and privacy-compliant practices
ensure that they meet the technical needs of the health authorities.
The DSK will also be an independent guide for all operators
such contact tracing systems with general requirements for digital
Develop contact tracking and publish at short notice. The DSK demands the
Legislators at state and federal level, nationwide legal
To create regulations for digital contact tracing. It is also closed
check,
the
Contact tracing achieved as part of the current fight against the pandemic
can be."

more data-efficient

to what extent

procedure

the

target

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

