Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                            2 As 107/2017 - 72




                                                             CZECH REPUBLIC

                                                              JUDGMENT
                                            JM É NEMREPUBLICS

          The Supreme Administrative Court decided in a panel composed of the chairwoman JUDr. Miluš Došková and judges Mgr. Eva
          Šonková and JUDr. Karel Šimka in the plaintiff's legal case: SOLUS, interest association of legal entities, with registered office at
          Antala Staška 510/38, Prague 4, represented
          M.Sc. Marií Janšová, lawyer with registered office at Václavská 316/12, Prague 2, against the defendant: Office for the Protection of
          Personal Data, with registered office in Plk. Sochora 27, Prague 7, in the presence of the person involved in the proceedings: Mgr.
          RL, against statements I. – VII. and IX. – XI. decision of the chairman of the defendant dated 12 February 2013, no. INSP2-4684/12-38,
          on the cassation complaint of the plaintiff against statements II. and III. of the judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague dated 8 March
          2017, No. 10 A 72/2013 - 86,



                                                                         as follows:




          I.        The cassation complaint is rejected.


          II.       Neither the plaintiff nor the person involved in the proceedings has the right to compensation for the costs of the proceedings
                    about a cassation complaint.



          III. The defendant is not awarded compensation for the costs of the cassation appeal .




                                                               Justification:


                                                                   I. Definition of the matter


                    The plaintiff is an association of legal entities (non-banking financial institutions, banks, [1] providers of electronic
          communications services, energy suppliers and others), whose main activity is the organization and management of databases
          enabling the assessment of consumers' ability to pay. Based on the initiative of a person involved in the proceedings and JR, the
          defendant carried out an inspection of the complainant from 7 June to 24 August 2012 focused on compliance with the obligations
          arising from Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data, as amended ( hereinafter referred to as the "Personal Data
          Protection Act"), when processing the personal data of JR and persons involved in the proceedings in the so-called negative register
          of natural persons.
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                               2 As 107/2017




                     Statements I. - VII. in the header of the marked decision of the chairman of the defendant (hereinafter
          referred to as [2] "challenged decision"), the plaintiff's objections against the control findings stated in the control
          report of the defendant dated 30 October 2012, no. INSP2-4684/12-33 (hereinafter referred to as " control log").
          In the inspection report, four corrective measures were also imposed on the plaintiff. Statement VIII. of the
          contested decision, remedial measure No. 1, by which the plaintiff was ordered to dispose of JR's personal
          data recorded in the negative register, was annulled, given that at the time the control report was issued, the
          period during which the plaintiff was legally obliged to To eliminate JR, it was superfluous to impose the given
          duty on him. Statements IX. and XI. objections to remedial measures No. 2 and No. 4, by which the plaintiff was
          ordered to inform JR and the person involved in the proceedings about the disposal of their personal data, were
          rejected.
          By the X. statement of the contested decision, corrective measure No. 3 was changed in such a way that the
          plaintiff was ordered to delete the personal data of the person participating in the proceedings in the negative
          register, which was entered by Home Credit, as

                    The lawsuit filed against statements I. - VII. and IX. – XI. of the contested decision of the Municipal [3]
          Court in Prague in the heading of the judgment (hereinafter referred to as "municipal court" and "contested
          judgment") in the part relating to the annulment of judgments I to VII. rejected the contested decision and in the
          part concerning the annulment of statements IX. – XI. rejected the contested decision. The municipal court
          stated first of all that the decision on objections to inspection findings is not a decision in the sense of § 65 of
          Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Code of Court, as amended (hereinafter referred to as "the Code of
          Administrative Procedures"), because it does not directly interfere with the legal sphere of the controlled entity.
          The lawsuit against them is therefore according to § 68 letter e) s. r. s. inadmissible. On the contrary, the
          statements of IX. - XI. of the contested decision, the plaintiff was required to take corrective action, and it is
          therefore indisputable that the action against them is admissible.

           [4] In the case itself, the city court first dealt with the revocability of the personal data subject's consent granted
          for a fixed period. If personal data is processed on the basis of consent, this is done with regard to the
          exhaustive list in § 5 paragraph 2 letter a) to g) of the Personal Data Protection Act on situations where the
          administrator does not necessarily need to process personal data and may do so only because the data subject
          has waived his right to have his personal data not processed through consent. This is not even a situation
          where the controller needs the data in connection with the contractual relationship between the data subject
          and the controller [§ 5 para. 2 letter b) of the Act on the Protection of Personal Data], nor on the processing of
          personal data necessary to comply with the administrator's legal obligations [§ 5 para. 2 letter a) of the same
          law]. Neither the Personal Data Protection Act nor the Personal Data Protection Directive contain any special
          regulation of consent for a fixed period.
          The difference between consent granted for an indefinite period and for a fixed period consists mainly in the
          fact that the consent granted for an indefinite period can only be released by the data subject by actively
          withdrawing the consent, while after the expiry of the consent granted for a fixed period, the controller's
          authorizations expire without further the subject's activities. However, it does not follow that the consent granted
          for a fixed period is irrevocable. Consent is a unilateral act of the data subject towards the administrator, not a
          contract between the administrator and the data subject. The meaning of the consent is that the subject can
          take it back, because only he is supposed to have control over who may process his personal data beyond the
          scope of cases established by law [the working group established pursuant to Article 29 of the Directive of the
          European Parliament and the Council reached similar conclusions 95/46/EC of 24 October 1995 on the
          protection of natural persons in connection with the processing of personal data and on the free movement of
          such data (hereinafter referred to as "Directive 95/46/EC") in its opinion of 13 July 2011 on the definition of
          consent, WP187, pp. 32 - 33]. Related to this is the controller's obligation under Section 5, Paragraph 4 of the
          Personal Data Protection Act to prove the granting of consent for the entire period of processing. Regarding
          the plaintiff's reference to the historical interpretation of Section 5, Paragraph 4 of the Personal Data Protection
          Act, the municipal court stated that from the omission of the wording that the subject may
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                            2 As 107/2017 - 73
          continuation

          to revoke the processing, unless otherwise agreed with the administrator, it cannot be concluded that all consents
          are irrevocable from the effective date of the amendment, but only that the law does not now explicitly allow for
          the possibility of an agreement between the administrator and the subject that the consent cannot be revoked.
          According to the city court, the analogy between the consent of the subject of personal data to their processing
          and the consent of the owner of the neighboring property to the implementation of the announced construction in
          the construction procedure is not applicable. The consent of the owner of the neighboring property is the basis for
          the permit act issued by the building authority. Apart from the term "consent", this institute does not show any
          similarities with the actions of the subject of personal data.


          in       The municipal court then proceeded to assess the alternative argumentation of the plaintiff consisting [5]
          the claim that he was authorized to process personal data without the consent of the data subjects in order to
          protect the legitimate interests of its members in the sense of § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data
          Protection Act. The municipal court first stated that the cited provision implements Article 7 letter f) of Directive
          95/46/EC, and must therefore be interpreted in a Euro-compliant manner. Interpretation of Article 7 letter f) of the
          directive was, according to the municipal court, sufficiently interpreted by the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice,
          thus it is a so-called acte éclairé in the sense of the judgment of the Court of Justice in the CILFIT case. He
          therefore did not consider it necessary to submit a preliminary question to the Court of Justice.

          [6]      The term "legitimate interest" cannot be limited by a member state to only a specific type of rights or
          interests, it can be, for example, an interest in the proper functioning of websites (judgment of the Court of Justice
          in the Breyer case) . Application § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act is not limited to the
          protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights, but to the protection of legitimate interests in a broader sense. The
          municipal court therefore convinced the plaintiff that it has a legitimate interest in its members being able to
          effectively verify the creditworthiness of consumers who apply for consumer credit. However, this legitimate
          interest must be measured by the test of proportionality to the interference with the right to privacy of the subjects
          of the collected data, while the measure under consideration does not pass the second step of the test, i.e. the
          assessment of necessity. Although this is a measure suitable for verifying the creditworthiness of consumers (the
          first step of the test) and certainly effective, it is not the only tool. Claimant members can and do request information
          about the ability to repay the loan primarily from consumers. Information is also often publicly available, e.g. in the
          insolvency register. Of course, a situation may arise when it will not be possible to find out reliable data testifying
          to his creditworthiness for a specific consumer, but in such a case, the plaintiff's members will have no choice but
          to not grant the loan.



          [7]      For the sake of completeness, the municipal court added that even if it accepted that the maintenance of
          databases of debtors in arrears without their consent is necessary for the fulfillment of the legitimate interests of
          the plaintiff, it would have to come to the conclusion that such interference with the right of the subjects of personal
          data to protect privacy cannot pass the test of reasonableness (third step of the proportionality test). On the part
          of the subjects of personal data in the case under consideration, there is an interference with the right to protection
          against unauthorized interference in private and family life arising from Article 10, paragraph 2 of the Charter of
          Fundamental Rights and Freedoms (see the decision of the Constitutional Court, file no. Pl. ÚS 24/ 10). Article 8,
          paragraph 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which guarantees everyone's right to
          the protection of personal data, also applies in the case under discussion. Finding out information about consumers
          applying for consumer credit is the plaintiff's legitimate interest, but it is not one of the constitutionally guaranteed rights.
          The protection of Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is subject only to the right to a
          specific increase in property, the acquisition of which an individual legitimately relies on on the basis of valid legal
          regulations (cf. e.g. the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Glaser v. Czech Republic) .
          However, such a legitimate expectation is not the case in the case under consideration. Plaintiff members are not
          guaranteed by law to be ideally informed about consumer affordability and it is up to their discretion and business
          risk to ensure that they provide services to consumers who can afford them. In this way, the case under
          consideration differs from the judgment of the Court
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                            2 As 107/2017



          dvora in the Ryneš case, in which the protection of far stronger interests was on the side of the personal data
          administrator, as he was protecting the very core of his right to private and family life, namely the integrity of
          the home, and thus the lives and health of himself and his family members. The plaintiff's interference with the
          rights of the person involved in the proceedings and another consumer was thus not proportional to the
          legitimate interest that the plaintiff protected, therefore § 5 para. 2 letter cannot be applied to the plaintiff's
          actions. e) of the Personal Data Protection Act.

          [8] The plaintiff's claim that he processed consumers' personal data without their consent, but did not provide it
          to his members unless they had the consumer's consent, does not change the aforementioned conclusion. The
          very fact that the plaintiff collects personal data constitutes processing of personal data within the meaning of
          § 4 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act. In addition, the municipal court noted that the logic of the
          matter is that in order to ensure the effectiveness of the database claimed by the plaintiff, the other members
          of the plaintiff must also have access to the data stored in it without the consent of the data subject. The
          municipal court therefore evaluated this partial argument as incoherent and purposeful in the context of the rest
          of the lawsuit. The municipal court did not accept the plaintiff's argument that he is obliged to keep a register of
          debtors as a result of the obligation to act with professional care. It cannot be inferred from the obligation to act
          with professional care that entrepreneurs have an obligation to create broad databases of consumer solvency.
          The legal basis for the operation of the debtor database in the case under consideration is not even § 20z para.
          1 of Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on consumer protection, as amended, since Act No. 378/2015 Coll., which was the
          provision in question on consumer protection, entered into force on February 1, 2016. The transitional provisions
          only mean that the administrators of consumer debt data databases are authorized to process after the
          amendment also the data that was contained in them before it came into effect. According to the city court,
          even the explanatory report to the amendment proposed by Deputy Vondráÿek, on the basis of which Section
          20 of the Act on Consumer Protection was adopted, has no influence on the above conclusions. The opinion of
          a single deputy does not hold up in the context of the above-mentioned argumentation, and it cannot be inferred
          that if the Chamber of Deputies accepted the amendment, it also agreed with the explanatory report.

          Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
          natural persons in connection with the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and
          on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the protection of personal data), because not only
          was it not effective at the time of the contested decision, but it was not effective at the time of the court's
          decision either. Moreover, it does not result in any change in the legislation relevant to this proceeding.
          Regarding the presented decision of the Rotterdam court from 2010, the city court stated that the importance
          of the decision of the Dutch court of first instance for the interpretation of European Union law cannot be
          overestimated. In addition, the court dealt with the activities of a public organization (Bureau Krediet Registratie),
          which maintains a central register of information on consumer debts based on Dutch legislation. It was therefore
          a substantially different factual and legal situation from the matter currently being discussed.



          [9]       Regarding the plaintiff's argument that he is obliged to maintain a database of unreliable debtors in
          order to be able to fulfill his obligations arising from § 9 paragraph 1 of Act No. 145/2010 Coll., on consumer
          credit and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended (hereinafter referred to as " Consumer Credit Act"),
          or Article 8(1) of Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on
          consumer credit agreements and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC (hereinafter referred to as "Directive
          2008/48/EC"), municipal the court stated that it does not follow from the cited article of the directive that
          consumer credit providers are obliged to systematically verify the claims of loan applicants in debtor databases.
          This obligation can be enshrined in national legislation.
          The directive only requires that credit should not be granted to a consumer about whom the provider has no or
          completely unreliable information (Court judgment in CA Consumer Finance SA). The provisions of Section 9(1)
          of the Act on Consumer Credit cannot therefore be interpreted as stipulating the obligation of a consumer credit
          provider to maintain and use a database
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                       2 As 107/2017 - 74
          continuation

          creditworthiness of consumers. The provider should primarily require the consumer who applies for a consumer
          loan to prove that he will be able to repay the loan. As a subsidiary means of verifying the creditworthiness of
          the consumer, the provider may also use relevant databases, but only those that are operated in accordance
          with the law. If the consumer credit provider finds itself in a situation where it is unable to verify the consumer's
          ability to repay the loan from the information provided by the consumer, and at the same time does not have
          access to any alternative sources of information, it would not be able to grant the loan to the consumer.
          However, such an option does not contradict the Consumer Credit Act. Regarding the plaintiff's alleged public
          interest in maintaining a register of debtors, the municipal court stated that the general principle of administrative
          proceedings enshrined in § 2, paragraph 4 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Code, as amended, which
          leads administrative authorities to took into account the compliance of the adopted decisions with the public
          interest, it cannot influence the interpretation of the applied substantive legal regulations by the administrative
          body or even serve as a substitute for such regulations. In the conclusion of the reasoning, the city court dealt
          with whether the plaintiff did not, based on the defendant's administrative practice, have a legitimate expectation
          that his procedure consisting in the collection of personal data in the debtors' database without the consent of
          the data subject, or rather on the basis of irrevocable consent, does not contradict the law, and concluded that
          the plaintiff had no document at his disposal from which such an expectation could arise.



                                                  II. Content of the cassation complaint


          [10]    Against the challenged judgment, the plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as the "complainant") filed a
          cassation complaint based on the grounds of § 103 paragraph 1 letter a) and d) s. ÿ. s., i.e. incorrect legal
          assessment by the municipal court and unreviewability of the contested judgment.

          [11]       The applicant primarily criticizes the municipal court's legal assessment for the incorrect implementation
          of the proportionality test in relation to § 5 para. 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act and Article 7
          letter f) Directive 95/46/EC. Instead of conducting a proportionality test with respect to the legitimate interests
          claimed by the applicant (the interest in fulfilling the general duty of professional care and the special duty to
          verify solvency), the municipal court conducted a comparison between the constitutionally guaranteed
          fundamental rights, namely between the right to the protection of property rights and the right to the protection
          of personal data . Category of legitimate interests according to § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data
          Protection Act is, however, broader, as it may also include interests that are not enshrined in the constitutional
          order. Unlike the municipal court, the applicant considers the limitation of business risk to be a legitimate
          interest. It draws attention to Article 8, paragraph 1 of Directive 2008/48/EC and point 28 of the same directive,
          which show the clear intention of the EU legislator to search information databases for the purpose of verifying
          the creditworthiness of consumers. According to the judgment of the Court of Justice in the CA Consumer
          Finance SA case, the assessment of whether the information provided by the consumer is sufficient is entrusted
          to the credit provider, who can carry out a database check for this purpose. Such a legitimate interest meets
          the criterion of necessity and Member States should not place excessive obstacles in its exercise. The
          complainant refers to the European Commission's document of 23/03/2017 "Consumer Financial Services
          Action Plan: Better Products, More Choice", in which the European Commission explicitly mentions credit
          assessment as one of the means of preventing irresponsible processing of consumer loans and intends to
          develop a minimum set of data , which are supposed to exchange credit registers with each other for this
          purpose. Art. 8(2) of Directive 2008/48/EC allows Member States to require creditors to assess the
          creditworthiness of consumers based on a search of the relevant database.



          According to Article 9, paragraph 1 of Directive 2008/48/EC, the Member State is obliged to provide foreign
          providers with access to debtor databases. The EU legislator apparently did not take into account the possibility
          that the database of debtors would not exist in a member state or that its existence might even be in conflict
          with another regulation of the European Union.
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                                    2 As 107/2017




                      According to the complainant, when carrying out the proportionality test, it is also necessary to take into account [12] the
          contractual obligation of providers of electronic communications services (§ 63, paragraph 4 of Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic
          communications, as amended) and energy traders in the position of suppliers of last resort [§ 12a of Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business
          conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sector and on the amendment of certain laws (Energy Act), as
          amended], who make up a substantial part of the plaintiff's members.


          A significant part of the complainant's members must also provide their services to consumers, with whom they would carefully consider
          the provision of services in the case of a free business strategy. They therefore have an urgent need for detailed information about the
          creditworthiness of the future customer so that they can appropriately set the conditions for the provision of the service. In addition,
          information about the existence of a substantial delay in fulfilling the financial obligation towards the provider of electronic communications
          services is also of fundamental importance for preventing irresponsible access to consumer loans. If the municipal court concluded that
          the service providers' efforts to prevent the emergence of new unpaid claims do not fall under the protection of the right to protect property,
          it did not take into account that for many of the complainant's members it is an attempt to prevent the devaluation of their own property by
          causing the consumer to incur additional claims from other entrepreneurs.




          [13] According to the complainant, the municipal court interpreted the right of the person involved in the proceedings to protect personal
          data disproportionately broadly, to the detriment of the complainant and its members. The right to the protection of personal data is not
          identical to the right to the protection of private life, but only related to it.
          According to Article 10, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms (as well as according to Articles 7 and
          8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights), interference with the right to the protection of personal data must reach the intensity of abuse.
          The complainant considers the reference to the decision of the Constitutional Court no. stamp Pl. ÚS 24/10 as irrelevant, because in the
          case under consideration the processed data do not directly indicate the personal privacy of the data subject. For the application of the
          criterion of necessity, the applicant refers to the opinion of Advocate General Bobek in Valsts policijas Rïgas and the judgment of the
          European Court of Human Rights in Handyside v. the United Kingdom. The criterion "necessary" should be understood rather as
          necessary, not inevitable or useful or desirable. In order to meet the condition of necessity, there must be a serious need and the
          measures must be proportionate.




          not         When comparing the considered case with the judgment of the Court of Justice in the case of Ryneš mÿšský [14], the court did
          take into account the fact that in the given case there was a stronger interference with the rights of the data subject (for example, arrivals
          and departures from the adjacent apartment building were recorded), in the case currently being considered it was only about the
          processing of a limited range of personal data and only about persons who are in arrears with the fulfillment of their contractual obligations.
          Only the identification data of the subject (name, surname, place of residence, social security number) and data on the extent and nature
          of the breach of contractual obligation were processed (amount owed, number of installments or other overdue payments, date when the
          conditions for inclusion in the register were fulfilled, written code characterizing the circumstances of the breach of duty and, where
          appropriate, the date of payment, write-off or assignment of the claim). In addition, the person participating in the proceedings apparently
          considers it an interference with his rights that, according to the data recorded in the database, a proper assessment of his creditworthiness
          is taking place, which makes it difficult for him to further over-indebt.




                      The complainant points out that when carrying out the proportionality test, it should be taken into account [15] that the alleged
          interference with the right to protect private life consisted in the fact that information about the existing delay of the consumer vis-à-vis
          another entrepreneur was not kept secret from another service provider.
          It is therefore necessary to consider whether it was really an interference with the right of the data subject or, on the contrary, an attempt
          by the subject to abuse the right. The concealment of information about the existence of arrears towards another service provider could
          thus have a major impact on the incorrect assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness and could lead to his irresponsible over-
          indebtedness. Such conduct is contrary to the principle of honesty in legal proceedings pursuant to § 6 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil
          Code, as amended.
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                 2 As 107/2017 - 75
          continuation

          Failure to provide essential information when negotiating a loan can even be a criminal offence. The challenged
          judgment deprived creditors of an effective tool to prevent potential criminal conduct. The existence of a serious need
          for consumer creditworthiness registers is also evidenced by the statements of the Czech National Bank and the security
          forces, which the city court did not take into account.


          [16]      The complainant further objects that the municipal court did not understand the way in which the complainant
          and its members proceed in practice when verifying the financial creditworthiness of consumers. In his assessment, he
          based his assessment on the facts in the proceedings that were not ascertained, and from the contested judgment it is
          not clear what considerations he was guided by when assessing the facts, the contested judgment is therefore
          unreviewable. At the time the contested decision was issued, the complainant recorded data on consumers'
          creditworthiness in the database even without the consent of the data subject, however, data from this database was
          always transferred only with the consent of the data subject. Without the consent of the data subject, the service provider
          was not authorized to request data from the database on the existence of a substantial delay in previous contractual relationships.
          If the consumer's consent is a condition for the request for data from the database, this is only a certain administrative
          burden for the service provider. However, if consent is a condition for inclusion in the database, the service provider
          does not know whether there is no information in the database because the consumer has no overdue obligations or
          because he has withdrawn his consent to their inclusion, so the database is unusable for the service provider.
          Conditional processing of personal data on the existence of consent, enhanced by its revocability, could in practice lead
          to the fact that the data subject would withdraw his consent at the moment when the claim would not be paid.


          This action would then allow the borrower to obtain a loan despite his unpaid obligations. Requiring consent to the
          request for data from the database minimizes interference with the rights of the data subject, as it preserves a greater
          degree of control over how his personal data is handled.


          [17] The Municipal Court also erred in refusing to refer a preliminary question to the Court of Justice.
          If a municipal court took a completely different opinion than a court in another member state, it cannot be a so-called
          acte clair, or acte éclairé, because there are different interpretations of European Union law and the Court of Justice
          has not yet made an interpretation. Moreover, the municipal court misinterpreted the Dutch judgment.
          In the given case, it was a private foundation, not a public institution, and the only legal basis for its activity is the Dutch
          transposition of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC. The statement of the working group of the European Commission WP
          164 is not only an internal material, but a document that was submitted for public consultation within the European
          Commission. The defendant's argumentation with document WP 65 is purposeful. In the conclusion of his cassation
          complaint, taking into account that the Supreme Administrative Court is the court of last instance, the applicant proposes
          that, in accordance with Article 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as
          "TFEU"), he asks the Court of Justice the following preliminary questions:



          1) It is necessary to interpret Article 7 letter f) the Personal Data Protection Directive, so that among the processing of
          personal data that is necessary for the realization of the legitimate interests of the administrator or a third party, or
          persons to whom the data is communicated, the processing of personal data in a special register kept by the personal
          data administrator for the purpose of preventing irresponsible indebtedness of consumers, namely the data of data
          subjects who are in substantial delay in fulfilling their monetary claim, while the personal data of the data subject kept in
          such a special register are transferred to another person only at the request of the data subject to enter into another
          contractual relationship with this person , solely for the purpose of assessing the creditworthiness of the data subject?


          2) Would the fact that personal data contained in a special register kept for the purpose of preventing irresponsible
          consumer indebtedness be requested by third parties solely on the basis of the consent of the data subject provided to
          this third party with such a request, for the purpose of assessment of the creditworthiness of the data subject when
          negotiating the conclusion of a contractual relationship of the data subject with such a third party?
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                                 2 As 107/2017



          3) It is necessary to interpret Article 7 letter f) directive on the protection of personal data so that, for the purposes of assessing
          whether the legitimate interests of the administrator or a third party, or persons to whom the data are communicated, do not exceed
          the interest or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject, which require protection pursuant to Article 1 para. 1 of the
          aforementioned directive, it is necessary on the part of the data subject to assess the specific interests, fundamental rights and
          freedoms of the data subject in relation to the specific categories of personal data processed in the given case (e.g. data on the
          existence of a substantial delay by the data subject in fulfilling a monetary claim) in relation to specific the purpose of the processing
           (e.g. keeping a special register to prevent irresponsible consumer indebtedness), and not just a general interest, the data subject's
          fundamental rights and freedoms to protect privacy and the data subject's right to informational self-determination?




          4) Article 8(1) of the Consumer Credit Directive must be interpreted in such a way that this article prevents Member States from
          adopting measures that would hinder the existence and effective functioning of negative debtor registers of natural persons -
          consumers, including such measures that would make it impossible keeping such registers on the legal basis of Article 7 letter f) the
          directive on the protection of personal data, as well as measures according to which Member States would require as a condition
          for the maintenance of such registers the consent of data subjects to the processing of their data in these registers, in connection
          with the right of the data subject to withdraw consent, including after a delay has occurred ?


                     III. The statement of the defendant and the person involved in the proceedings and the reply of the complainant


           [18] In his statement on the cassation complaint, the defendant identifies himself with the contested judgment and refers to his
          statement in the proceedings before the municipal court. Regarding the proportionality test carried out, the defendant states that,
          given that the right to personal data protection is a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right, it is quite correct that the municipal
          court compared it with another fundamental right, which is the right to protect property, but not the interest in fulfilling general
          obligations of professional care or special obligations of verification of solvency. The complainant does not relate his arguments in
          any way to the specific circumstances of the case under consideration, while neglecting that in the Ryneš case there was a real
          threat to the data subject, which was measured against the rights of a relatively clearly defined group of persons. The defendant
          rejects the argument that the right to the protection of personal data is only related to the right to privacy.




          Provision § 5 paragraph 2 of the Act on the Protection of Personal Data requires a measurement to be carried out against the right
          of the data subject to protect his private life, Article 7 letter f) Directive 95/46/EC permits the processing of personal data only if the
          interest and rights of the data subject do not exceed the need for processing.




           [19] The processing of personal data must be based on one of the legal titles enshrined in the Personal Data Protection Act. The
          basic legal title is the consent of the data subject. If respect for a person's dignity and privacy is to be maintained, it is up to the data
          subject to decide when to allow and when to withdraw permission to interfere with his privacy. Argumentation with the exception
          enshrined in § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act is purposeful. The application of this statutory exception
          is also called into question by the adoption of amendment No. 378/2015 Coll., which bases the management of the database on the
          creditworthiness and trustworthiness of consumers on § 20z and § 20za of the Act on Consumer Protection and § 5 paragraph 2
          letter a) of the Personal Data Protection Act, not § 5 para. 2 letter f) of the same law.




           [20] The contested judgment does not call into question the actual need to assess the consumer's creditworthiness, but rather the
          necessity of maintaining the assessed database and, as a result, its legality.
          Directive 2008/48/EC does not require the maintenance of databases on the creditworthiness of consumers, it is only one of the
          alternative options, which was only introduced into the Czech legal system by amendment No. 378/2015 Coll. Assessment of the
          consumer's creditworthiness is also possible by other methods, primarily by obtaining information directly from the consumer. As a
          result, the limitation of contractual freedom of some members of the complainant calls into question the need to maintain the
          database in question, and thus also the application of § 5 para. 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act. If the conclusion of
          the contract cannot be refused,
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                         2 As 107/2017 - 76
          continuation

          it is not possible to fulfill the declared purpose of fulfilling the general obligation of professional care, while the
          mere establishment of special conditions is not sufficient to justify interference with the right to the protection of
          personal data. The aspect of good manners was taken into account when enshrining the legal titles for personal
          data processing in the Personal Data Protection Act. In conclusion, the defendant states that the legislation and
          jurisprudence are unambiguous in relation to the question under consideration, therefore there is no reason to
          submit a preliminary question to the Court of Justice. In addition, the filing of a preliminary question has no
          significance for future disputes in view of the change in legislation.

           [21] The person involved in the proceedings in his statement on the cassation complaint states that the
          complainant records in the negative register everyone whom his member, a private entity, designates as a debtor
          (regardless of the amount of the debt). By being included in a database maintained by the complainant, the
          individual is completely removed from everyday life and the ability to arrange any service from a mortgage to a
          contract with a telephone operator. Such extortion by the threat of discredit is considered by the person involved
          in the proceedings to be inadmissible in a state governed by the rule of law. In addition, entrepreneurs can use
          the data to pressure consumers in the event of a potential lawsuit. Credibility can be verified in another way,
          fraudsters can bypass the database. The person participating in the proceedings joins the complainant's
          considerations de lege ferenda, so that the law does not allow withdrawing consent to the processing of personal
          data in some cases. However, negative registers should only be based on valid decisions about debt or on
          officially verified recognition of debt, not on any record by a private entity. The person participating in the
          proceedings points to his case, where consent to the processing of personal data was disguised in small print
          on the adhesion contract concluded with the company Home Credit, as, while the lawsuit against the person
          participating in the proceedings was rejected by the civil court, but the complainant, however, the personal data
          of the person participating in the proceedings continued to record and provide to third parties. In conclusion, the
          person participating in the proceedings states that the right to do business cannot be prioritized over the right to
          protect personal data and protect human dignity.



                    In his reply to the statement of the defendant and the person involved in the proceedings, the
          complainant states [22] that, unlike the Ryneš case, in the case under consideration, the data of only those
          entities that gave the reason for this by their previous non-payment of the debt were processed. Neither the
          defendant nor the municipal court took into account the nature of the processed data, unlike the case of Ryneš ,
          the complainant does not process data indicating the private and intimate life of the data subjects.
          The complainant further objects to the defendant's reference to amendment No. 378/2015 Coll., which on the
          one hand was not effective at the time the contested decision was issued, and on the other hand does not
          exclude the application of § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act as the legal basis for
          personal data processing. Moreover, according to the complainant, it is not true that she was questioned several times.
          Regarding the issue of the contractual obligations of some of its members, the complainant states that the
          negotiation of specific conditions such as advance payment or the payment of an extraordinary advance
          significantly affects the possibility of collecting a potential unpaid claim and helps to prevent over-indebtedness
          of the consumer. The complainant further points out that the data listed in the database are encrypted, they are
          only used in the event of a query. The aspect of good morals was not taken into account by either the defendant
          or the municipal court in the proportionality test, contrary to the defendant's claim. To the preliminary question,
          the applicant adds that in a number of other member states, for example in the United Kingdom or Italy, the
          courts choose an interpretation similar to the submitted decision of the Dutch court. Regarding the adoption of
          the new legislation, the complainant states that the general regulation on the protection of personal data contains
          an almost identical legal norm as in the considered provision. In addition, the General Regulation on the
          Protection of Personal Data will only enter into force on 25/05/2018. The person participating in the proceedings
          states circumstances relating to his registered claim, which were not mentioned in the administrative proceedings
          or in the proceedings before the municipal court. Regarding the correctness of the recorded data, the complainant
          states that in the event of a claim being disputed, he blocks and checks the data in accordance with the Personal
          Data Protection Act. The person involved in the procedure or other consumers correctness of the data
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                    2 As 107/2017



          did not dispute, the subject of administrative proceedings was not the incorrectness of the data, but the existence of
          consent to their processing. The members of the complainant are obliged to regularly check the recorded data by an
          independent auditor. In conclusion, the complainant points out that the person involved in the proceedings was not
          excluded from ordinary life, because at the time when her data were recorded in the complainant's database, she
          obtained a loan from the company Raiffeisen stavební spoÿitelna, as, which is a member of the complainant.


                              IV. Assessment of the cassation complaint by the Supreme Administrative Court


          [23] The Supreme Administrative Court first examined the formal requirements of the cassation complaint and stated
          that the complainant is a person authorized to file it, as he was a party to the proceedings from which the challenged
          judgment arose (§ 102 s. ÿ. s.). The cassation complaint was filed on time (§ 106 para. 2 s. s. s. s.) and the
          complainant is represented by a lawyer (§ 105 para. 2 s. s. s. s.).


          [24] The Supreme Administrative Court weighed the merits of the cassation complaint within the limits of its scope
          and the reasons applied and examined whether the challenged judgment does not suffer from defects that it would
          have to take into account as an official duty (§ 109 par. 3 and 4 s. ÿ. s.).


          [25] The Supreme Administrative Court therefore first had to deal with the question of the conditions of the proceedings
          on the claim, specifically whether the corrective measure contained in the control protocol is an administrative decision
          with attributes according to § 65, paragraph 1 of the Civil Code. The Municipal Court correctly stated, that the decision
          on objections to the inspection finding is not a decision in the sense of § 65 s. s. s., as it does not directly interfere
          with the legal sphere of the controlled entity (for this see, for example, the judgments of the Supreme Administrative
          Court of 25 September 2007, no. j. 4 Ads 32/2007 – 36, dated 24/04/2013, no. 3 Aps 9/2012 - 29, or dated 20/11/2014,
          no. 2 Ads 126/2014 - 79 , available as well as the other decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court listed here at
          www.nssoud.cz), and thus rejected the lawsuit in the part relating to the statements of the contested decision, with
          which the defendant only rejected objections to the conclusions of the control protocol. Subsequently, however, he
          stated in a rather simplistic way that the statements of IX. – XI. of the contested decision, the applicant was required
          to take remedial measures, and it is therefore indisputable that the action against these statements is admissible.




          [26] It is true that the earlier jurisprudence of the Supreme Administrative Court emphasized its material aspect when
          defining an administrative decision, and therefore considered the control protocol in the part imposing corrective
          measures on the controlled entity to be an administrative decision, without dealing with the prescribed form (cf. the
          judgment from on 14 November 2007, No. 1 As 13/2006 - 90). However, when assessing the admissibility of the
          claim, the resolution of the extended panel of the Supreme Administrative Court of 16 November 2010, No. 7 Aps
          3/2008 – 98, publ. under No. 2206/2011 Coll. NSS, according to which it is necessary to consider as a decision in the
          sense of § 65 paragraph 1 s. s. s. the said act is usually preceded by administrative proceedings and that the act itself
          has legal requirements. The defendant proceeded against the complainant in accordance with Act No. 552/1991 Coll.,
          on state control, as amended, and drew up a report of the control findings, which included corrective measures in
          accordance with § 40 of the Personal Data Protection Act. The control process according to the Act on State Control
          [and now according to Act No. 255/2012 Coll., on control (control regulation), as amended] does not in itself have the
          character of an administrative procedure aimed at issuing an administrative decision. With regard to § 41 of the Act
          on the Protection of Personal Data, as amended until 30 April 2014, it can nevertheless be concluded that if a violation
          of legal regulations was detected during the control in the area of personal data protection, which had to be addressed
          by taking corrective measures, it should have been part of the control protocol according to the Act on State Control,
          as well as the administrative decision according to § 41 of the Act on the Protection of Personal Data, by which the
          controlled
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                              2 As 107/2017 - 77

          continuation of

           the subject and appropriate corrective measures imposed. The defendant did not proceed in the prescribed manner in the present case,
          did not issue an administrative decision on corrective measures and made them a formal part of the control protocol. However, the
          mentioned procedure cannot be detrimental to the controlled entity. If the imposition of the obligation to take remedial measures within
           the specified period meets the material requirements of an administrative decision and the legal regulation also prescribes the form of an
           administrative decision, then an act of an administrative body that does not have this form as a result of its misconduct must also be
          considered an administrative decision (judgment of the Supreme of the Administrative Court of 12 August 2015, No. 3 As 182/2014 – 34).
          In the challenged decision of the chairman of the defendant, which was issued in the proceedings on the remedy filed by the complainant,
           the form and content were unified. The Supreme Administrative Court therefore came to the conclusion (albeit on the basis of a slightly
          different legal argument) that the municipal court proceeded correctly when the lawsuit in the part directed against the statements of IX. –
          XI. discussed the contested decision on the merits.




           [27] The Supreme Administrative Court further had to consider whether the municipal court acted in accordance with the law when it dealt
           with RL as a party to the proceedings (for the reasons set out below, the Supreme Administrative Court continues to refer to him as a
          party to the proceedings in this judgment ).


           [28] Pursuant to Section 34 of the Civil Code, "[p]ersons involved in the proceedings are persons who were directly affected in their rights
          and obligations by the issuance of the contested decision or by the fact that the decision was not issued, and those who may be directly
           affected by its cancellation or issuance according to the draft judgment of the court's decision, if they are not participants and have
          expressly announced that they will exercise the rights of the persons participating in the proceedings" (paragraph 1). "The proposer is
          obliged to indicate in the proposal the persons who come into consideration as persons participating in the proceedings, if they are known to him.
          The president of the senate shall inform such persons of the ongoing proceedings and invite them to announce within the time limit he sets
          for them at the same time, whether they will exercise the rights of a person participating in the proceedings in the proceedings; such
          notification can only be made within this period. At the same time as notification, they will be educated about their rights. Similarly, the
           chairman of the panel proceeds if it is discovered during the proceedings that there is another such person" (paragraph 2). "A person
          participating in the proceedings has the right to submit written statements, inspect the file, be informed of the ordered proceedings and
          request that he be granted the floor during the proceedings. It is served with the lawsuit, the resolution granting suspensive effect, the
           resolution on preliminary measures and the decision ending the court proceedings. A person participating in the proceedings cannot
          dispose of its subject" (paragraph 3). "The court shall issue a ruling that the person who claims the status of a person participating in the
          proceedings and does not meet the conditions for this, is not a person participating in the proceedings" (paragraph 4).


           [29] According to the established jurisprudence of the Supreme Administrative Court, an entity becomes a party to the proceedings only
          by cumulatively meeting the material (impairment of rights) and formal (explicit notification) conditions set out in § 34 paragraph 1 of the
           Civil Code. If the claiming entity fails with the procedural status of a person participating in the proceedings within the period set by the
           court pursuant to § 34, paragraph 2, sentence two of the Criminal Code, does not fulfill the formal condition and is not a person
           participating in the proceedings, which the court will pronounce by resolution (§ 34, paragraph 4 of the Criminal Code .). If the regional
          court acted as a person participating in the proceedings with someone who does not belong to this status, the Supreme Administrative
          Court will cancel the contested decision in the event that there is reasonable doubt about the legality of the contested decision in a causal
          connection with this procedural defect (judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court dated 17 12. 2010, No. 7 As 70/2009 – 190, publ.
          under No. 2341/2011 Coll. NSS).




           [30] In the case under consideration, the municipal court, in accordance with § 34, paragraph 2, s. proceedings, informed her about the
           rights of the person participating in the proceedings and invited her to announce within a period of two weeks from the delivery of the
          notification whether she will exercise the rights of the person participating in the proceedings in the proceedings, with the understanding
          that the notification can only be made within the specified period. Note No. 10 A 72/2013 – 66 was delivered to her mailbox on 29 October
           2016, the two-week period for exercising the rights of a person participating in the proceedings therefore expired on Monday 14 November
          2016. A person participating in the proceedings
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                                  2 As 107/2017



          responded to the notification sent with a submission dated 18 November 2016, in which she stated that she would exercise the rights of
          the person involved in the proceedings. The city court ignored the delayed exercise of the rights of a person participating in the
          proceedings and continued to deal with her as a person participating in the proceedings.
          However, the person involved in the proceedings did not submit any statement in the proceedings on the claim and did not participate in
          the oral proceedings.


          [31] For the reasons stated above, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded that the municipal court erred when, after the person
          involved in the proceedings had belatedly announced his entry into the proceedings after the expiry of the set period, he did not issue a
          resolution pursuant to § 34, paragraph 4, s. ÿ. pp. and instead dealt with her as a party to the proceedings. However, this defect could
          not affect the legality of the decision in the case, since the person involved in the proceedings did not comment on the matter after the
          announcement of entry into the proceedings, did not propose any evidence, nor was he otherwise active in the proceedings. Thus, it
          could not influence the assessment of the matter itself in any way (compare a contrario the already mentioned judgment of the Supreme
          Administrative Court No. 7 As 70/2009 – 190). In the cassation complaint proceedings, the Supreme Administrative Court continued to
          deal with the person participating in the proceedings, because according to the previous jurisprudence, the cassation complaint
          proceedings must be based on who the regional court dealt with as a person participating in the proceedings, even if dealt with an entity
          that does not belong to this position. Pursuant to § 105 paragraph 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the vast majority of cases, the
          range of participants in the cassation complaint proceedings is factually the same as the range of participants in the proceedings on the
          claim. In addition, a consistent distinction between the persons participating in the proceedings on the claim and in the cassation
          complaint would lead to the necessity to once again demand the fulfillment of a formal condition in the proceedings on the cassation
          complaint, i.e. to invite the entities that come into consideration as persons participating in the proceedings to repeatedly announce that
          they exercise the rights persons involved in the proceedings. However, such a procedure would be formalistic and contrary to the
          principle of procedural economy (already mentioned judgment No. 7 As 70/2009 – 190). In the given case, the Supreme Administrative
          Court could not even pronounce itself that the person involved in the proceedings is not one, because it follows from Section 34 of the
          Civil Code that the resolution pursuant to paragraph 4 of the cited provision is issued by the court before which the proceedings are
          conducted, in which during the process, a certain entity claims the status of a person involved in the proceedings, i.e. in the given case
          the municipal court. In addition, if the Supreme Administrative Court were to decide on its own according to § 34, paragraph 4 of the
          Administrative Code, it would deprive the person involved in the proceedings of the opportunity to defend himself against such a decision
          with a cassation complaint and would also eliminate the opportunity to request a waiver of the missed deadline.




          [32] The Supreme Administrative Court further notes that the challenged judgment does not suffer from any of the deficiencies that
          establish the non-reviewability of the decision. The reasons that led the municipal court to reject the lawsuit can be seen from the
          justification. The municipal court described the specific factual circumstances on which it based its decision, stated the considerations
          that guided it in assessing the merits of the lawsuit, and described the conclusions it reached on the basis of these considerations. The
          Supreme Administrative Court also did not find that the municipal court neglected to address any of the objections raised in the lawsuit.




          [33] If the complainant objects that the municipal court based its decision on the facts in the proceedings of the undetected, this is a
          cassation ground according to § 103 paragraph 1 letter b) s. ÿ. s. d) s. r. s. The incorrect qualification of the cassation objection does
          not, however, constitute a lack of proposal, as the subsumption of cassation grounds under statutory provisions is part of the court's
          legal assessment (cf. the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 8 January 2004, no. 2 Afs 7/2003 – 50, published under No.
          161/2004 Coll. NSS). However, the Supreme Administrative Court does not consider this objection to be justified. The complainant
          contradicts the conclusion of the municipal court that, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the negative register, the members of the
          complainant must have access to the data contained in it without the consent of the data subjects. However, the municipal court
          expressed the aforementioned conclusion beyond the scope of the necessary justification, as it primarily stated that the very collection
          of personal data by the complainant constitutes the processing of personal data according to § 4 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection
          Act, regardless of whether the subsequent provision of data from the negative
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                     2 As 107/2017 - 78
          continuation

          registry occurs with or without consent. Therefore, the Supreme Administrative Court did not consider it necessary to verify the
          factual conclusions of the municipal court more closely, because even if the municipal court were to make a mistake in the
          above-mentioned conclusion, it could not affect the legality of the contested judgment. The complainant also cannot be
          convinced that the municipal court did not take into account the statements of the Czech National Bank and the Ministry of the
          Interior, the National Security Office and the General Inspection of the Security Forces. As can be seen from page 18 of the
          contested judgment, the municipal court dealt with the statements, but came to the conclusion that the opinions of these
          authorities regarding the usefulness of negative registers cannot replace the legal reason for processing personal data according
          to § 5, paragraph 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act.




          [34] In the case itself, the disputed question is whether the complainant is authorized to process the personal data of consumers
          in the so-called negative register without their consent. The Supreme Administrative Court emphasizes that in its assessment it
          was based on the definition of the dispute in the cassation complaint (in the cassation complaint proceedings there was no
          dispute between the parties to the proceedings that consent to the processing of personal data was not given at the relevant
          time), and therefore did not deal with the exact wording of the terms and conditions , in which consent to the processing of
          personal data is usually indicated.


          [35] The Supreme Administrative Court is aware that proceedings before the Constitutional Court under sp. stamp Pl. ÚS 10/17
          proceedings on the proposal to cancel § 20z para. 1 in fine of Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on consumer protection, as amended.
          The given provision, which was inserted into the Consumer Protection Act with effect from 1 February 2016 by parliamentary
          amendment to Act No. 378/2015 Coll., stipulates that no consent is required for the processing of personal data in information
          databases on the creditworthiness and trustworthiness of consumers consumers. The subject of the review in the considered
          procedure was the corrective measures listed in the control protocol, not the decision on guilt and punishment. Therefore, the
          municipal court was not obliged to take into account the principle expressed in the second sentence of Article 40, paragraph 6
          of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to which the criminality of the offense is assessed and the
          punishment is imposed according to the legislation that came into force only after the offense was committed. if it is more
          favorable for the offender (for details, see the resolution of the extended senate of the Supreme Administrative Court of 16
          November 2016, No. 5 As 104/2013 – 46, publ. under No. 3528/2017 Coll. NSS).


          Therefore, the Supreme Administrative Court did not interrupt the proceedings according to § 48 paragraph 3 letter d) s. s. s.
          until the decision of the Constitutional Court, as the result of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court cannot have an effect
          to the court's decision on the merits.


          [36] It follows from the administrative file that the assessed negative register is a register of natural persons who have fallen
          into arrears with the payment of their financial obligations to one of the members of the complainant. The negative register
          contains the following information about consumers: name, surname, social security number, full address of residence, amount
          of overdue amount, date of default, date of registration in the information system, date of payment of amount owed, date of last
          change and name of creditor.




          [37] Personal data means “any information relating to an identified or identifiable data subject. The data subject is considered
          determined or determinable, if the data subject can be identified directly or indirectly, in particular on the basis of a number,
          code or one or more elements specific to his physical, physiological, psychological, economic, cultural or social identity" [§ 4
          letter a) of the Personal Data Protection Act], by processing "any operation or set of operations that the controller or processor
          systematically performs with personal data, automatically or by other means. The processing of personal data means in
          particular the collection, storage on information carriers, making available, editing or changing, searching, using, forwarding,
          spreading, publishing, storing, exchanging, sorting or combining, blocking and disposal" [§ 4 letter e) of the Act].
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                                     2 As 107/2017



          [38] Section 5, paragraph 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act lists the basic principles of personal data protection, such as the
          principle of fair and lawful processing, the principle of purpose limitation, the principle of minimality or the principle of data quality.
          These principles are succinctly described in point 28 of the rationale of Directive 95/46/EC (referring to Article 6 of Directive 95/46/EC,
          which is implemented by § 5, paragraph 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act), according to which "any processing of personal data
          must be conducted in a lawful and fair manner to the individuals concerned; that, in particular, it must relate to data that are adequate,
          substantial and in quantity proportional to the purposes of the processing; that these purposes must be explicit and legitimate and must
          be established at the time of data collection; that the purposes of data processing subsequent to their collection must not be incompatible
          with the originally established purposes." The legal reasons for the processing of personal data are set out exhaustively in § 5,
          paragraph 2 of the Act on the Protection of Personal Data (similarly, Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC ), according to which the processing
          of personal data basically requires the consent of the data subject to data processing. Exceptions to the obligation to consent are
          enshrined in § 5 paragraph 2 letter a) to g) of the Personal Data Protection Act.




          [39] According to § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act "[t]he controller may process personal data only with the
          consent of the data subject. It may process them without this consent if it is necessary to protect the rights and legally protected interests
          of the controller, recipient or other person concerned; however, such processing of personal data must not be in conflict with the data
          subject's right to the protection of his private and personal life."




          [40] The right to the protection of personal data is constitutionally guaranteed. According to Article 10(3) of the Charter of Fundamental
          Rights and Freedoms, "[e]veryone has the right to be protected against the unauthorized collection, disclosure or other misuse of data
          about his person."


          [41] The protection of personal data is also harmonized at the EU level by Directive 95/46/EC.
          According to Article 7 letter f) Directive 95/46/EC "[Member States] stipulate that the processing of personal data can only be carried
          out if the data subject has unquestionably given consent; or the processing is necessary for the realization of the legitimate interests of
          the controller or a third person or persons to whom the data are communicated, provided that they do not exceed the interest or
          fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject that require protection pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1." According to point 30
          sentence before the semicolon of Directive 95/46/EC "given that, in order to be lawful, the processing of personal data must also be
          carried out with the consent of the data subject or must be necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract binding the data
          subject or for compliance with an obligation arising from legal regulations or for the fulfillment of a task in the public interest or resulting
          from the exercise of public authority or for the exercise of the legal interest of a natural or legal person on the condition that the interests
          or rights and freedoms of the data subject are not predominant." For the sake of completeness, the Supreme Administrative Court
          states that from 25.5 . 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation will be applicable. Regardless of its temporal scope, however, the
          Supreme Administrative Court did not deal with it in more detail, because due to the issue at issue in the cassation complaint
          proceedings, it does not differ in any way from the applicable legislation.




          [42] The right to the protection of personal data is also explicitly enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
          According to Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, "[e]veryone has the right to the protection of
          personal data concerning him" (paragraph 1). "These data must be processed correctly, for precisely defined purposes and on the
          basis of the consent of the person concerned or on the basis of another legitimate reason established by law.
          Everyone has the right of access to the data that has been collected about him and the right to have it corrected” (paragraph 2).
          According to Article 52, paragraph 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, “[e]ach restriction on the exercise of
          the rights and freedoms recognized by this Charter must be established by law and respect the essence of these rights and freedoms.
          In compliance with the principle of proportionality, restrictions may only be introduced if they are necessary and if they genuinely
          correspond to the general interest objectives recognized by the Union or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others."
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                       2 As 107/2017 - 79
          continuation

          [43] The Supreme Administrative Court must therefore take into account all the mentioned dimensions of personal
          data protection and § 5 para. 2 lit. e) of the Personal Data Protection Act to be interpreted not only in a
          constitutionally compliant manner, but also in a Euro-compliant manner.

          [44] According to the established jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the right to privacy also guarantees
          the right of an individual to decide at his own discretion whether, or to what extent, in what manner and under
          what circumstances facts and information from his personal privacy should be made available to other subjects.
          This is an aspect of the right to privacy in the form of the right to informational self-determination, expressly
          guaranteed by Article 10, paragraph 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms (see, for example,
          findings of 22 March 2011, file no. Pl. ÚS 24/10, dated 17/07/2007, file no. IV. ÚS 23/05, or dated 1/12/2008, file
          no. I. ÚS 705/06 or dated 20/12/2016, file no. Pl. ÚS 3/14, available like the other decisions of the Constitutional
          Court listed here at http://nalus.usoud.cz/). The right to informational self-determination, together with personal
          freedom, freedom in the spatial dimension (domestic), freedom of communication and other constitutionally
          guaranteed basic rights completes the personal sphere of the individual, whose individual integrity must be
          respected and consistently protected as an absolutely necessary condition for the dignified existence and
          development of human life . If the individual is not guaranteed the possibility to monitor and control the content
          and scope of personal data and information provided by him, which are to be published, kept or used for purposes
          other than the original, and therefore he himself will not be able to recognize and evaluate the trustworthiness of
          his potential communication partner and possibly adapt their actions to this, then there is necessarily a restriction
          or suppression of their rights and freedoms, which is not acceptable in a free and democratic society (finding of
          the Constitutional Court of 20 December 2011, file stamp Pl. ÚS 24/11) .



          [45] The European Court of Human Rights derived the protection of the right to informational self-determination
          from the right to respect for private and family life under Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection
          of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In a number of its decisions, this court emphasized that the
          collection and storage of data relating to an individual's private life fall within the scope of the aforementioned
          article, as the expression private life must not be interpreted restrictively (judgments of the Grand Chamber in the
          case of Rotaru v. Romania of 04/05/2000, no . .Complaints 28341/95, and S. and Marper v. United Kingdom of
          4/12/2008, Nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04, Full Judgment in Malone v. United Kingdom of 2/8/1984, Complaint No.
          8691/79, and the judgment in Kopp v. Switzerland of 25/03/1998, complaint No. 23224/94, available like the other
          decisions of the European Court of Human Rights mentioned here at https://hudoc.echr.coe .int). In the Rotaru v.
          Romania judgment , the European Court of Human Rights further confirmed that the mere retention of personal
          data constitutes an invasion of privacy. Any use is then a separate intervention.

          In the judgment in Bouchacourt v. France of 17/12/2009, complaint no. 5335/06, the European Court of Human
          Rights dealt with the maintenance of a national automated register of sex offenders, concluding that the
          proportionality of the measure in relation to the legitimate the goals of public safety and crime prevention were
          maintained. However, national law must provide sufficient safeguards against misuse and ensure that personal
          data are accurate and not disproportionate to the purposes for which they are processed.



          [46] In view of the above, it is necessary to unequivocally reject the claim of the complainant that the interference
          with the right to the protection of personal data must acquire the intensity of abuse. The determination of an
          interference with a fundamental right represents the second step of the five-step test applied by the European
          Court of Human Rights when reviewing violations of rights under Articles 8 to 11 of the European Convention for
          the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The term interference is interpreted very broadly by
          the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of the right to the protection of personal data, interference is
          any systematic collection and storage of personal data. In order to assess whether a fundamental right has been
          violated, the remaining three steps of the test must be carried out, namely the test of legality, legitimacy and
          necessity in a democratic society (KMEC, J., KOSAÿ, D., KRATOCHVÍL, J., BOBEK, M. European Convention on Human Rights.
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                             2 As 107/2017


          Comment. Prague: CH Beck, 2012, p. 99 ff.). The argument of the complainant, according to which the
          previous actions of the data subject, i.e. non-payment of the claim, excludes the protection of his personal
          data, is in conflict not only with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional
          and Supreme Administrative Courts, but also with the very essence of fundamental rights, according to which
          protection of fundamental rights for everyone without further ado (the Charter of Fundamental Rights and
          Freedoms itself stipulates that fundamental rights and freedoms are inalienable, inalienable, non-expirable
          and non-revocable). Only in extreme cases of abuse of basic rights and freedoms to oppose the free
          democratic order, can the protection of these rights be removed (WAGNEROVÁ, E., ŠIMÍÿEK, V., LANGÁŠEK,
          T., POSPÍŠIL, I. et al. Charter of Basic Rights and Freedoms. Commentary . Wolters Kluwer, 2012, Article 1,
          available from the legal information system aspi). As follows from the previous case law, the protection of
          personal data also belongs to the perpetrators of criminal offences; see, e.g., the issue of maintaining a
          register of sexual offenders assessed by the European Court of Human Rights in the aforementioned
          Bouchacourt v. France judgment or the review of the fine for the dissemination of a photograph of the
          perpetrator of theft in the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 06/08/2016, no. 3 As 118 /2015 –
          34. With a logical interpretation according to the principle a maiori ad minus, it is not possible to unjustifiably
          interfere with the right to the protection of personal data even for persons who are late in fulfilling their financial obligations.

          [47] Multi-level legal regulation of personal data protection leads to a clash of different forms of the
          proportionality test. According to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, interference with
          the right to the protection of personal data is possible only if the given measure passes the test of legality,
          legitimacy and necessity in a democratic society. The criteria of legality and legitimacy tend not to be
          problematic when assessing an intervention; interference with rights must be carried out on the basis of law
          and must pursue a legitimate purpose. On the contrary, the necessity test in a democratic society is criticized
          in the professional literature for its unpredictability and the absence of a fixed algorithm (cf. e.g. GERARDS,
          J. How to improve the necessity test of the European Court of Human Rights. International Journal of
          Constitutional Law, vol . 11 , No. 2, 2013, pp. 466 – 490), however, it can be generally concluded that it
          consists of two steps. The interference with the right in question must correspond to a pressing social need
          (ie the reasons given by the national authorities to justify this interference must be "relevant and sufficient");
          and in the light of the given case as a whole it must be "adequate to the pursued legitimate goal" (KMEC, J.,
          KOSAÿ, D., KRATOCHVÍL, J., BOBEK, M.
          European Convention on Human Rights. Comment. Prague: CH Beck, 2012, p. 113 ff.).

          [48] According to the established jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the assessment of proportionality
          (in a broader sense) consists of three steps. In the first step, the suitability of a specific measure to fulfill its
          purpose (or its appropriateness) is assessed, which means whether it is at all capable of achieving the
          pursued legitimate goal, which is the protection of another fundamental right or public good.
          Furthermore, its necessity is examined from the point of view of whether the one of them, which is the most
          gentle to the fundamental right, was used when choosing the means. Finally, in the third and at the same time
          the last step, the subject of assessment is its proportionality in a narrower sense, i.e. whether the harm to a
          fundamental right is not disproportionate in relation to the intended goal. This means that measures restricting
          basic human rights and freedoms must not, in the case of a collision of a basic right or freedom with the public
          interest, with their negative consequences exceed the positives that represent the public interest in these
          measures (finding dated 12 October 1994, sp. ÚS 4/94 and subsequent jurisprudence, see e.g. findings of
          8/13/2002, ÚS 3/02, 1/28/2004, ÚS 3/02, 1/28/2004 Pl. ÚS 41/02 or dated 20 February 2018, file stamp Pl.
          ÚS 6/17).

           [49] The proportionality test applied by the Czech and German Constitutional Courts is therefore only applied
          in the last fifth step within the five-step test of the European Court of Human Rights.
          However, compared to the unclear and inconsistently applied criterion of necessity in a democratic society,
          the three-step assessment of appropriateness, necessity and adequacy is more predictable and doctrinally
          anchored. The Supreme Administrative Court is of the opinion that both tests can be applied simultaneously
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                               2 As 107/2017 - 80
          continuation

          as the Constitutional Court did, for example, in the judgment of 22 March 2011, file no. stamp Pl. ÚS 24/10, when he
          first stated that interference with the constitutionally guaranteed right to informational self-determination is "possible
          only through imperative legal regulation, which must first of all correspond to the requirements arising from the principle
          of the rule of law and which fulfills the requirements arising from the proportionality test, when in cases of conflicts
          fundamental rights or freedoms in the public interest, or with other fundamental rights or freedoms, the purpose (goal)
          of such intervention must be assessed in relation to the means used, while the criterion for this assessment is the
          principle of proportionality (in a broader sense). Such legislation must be precise and clear in its wording and
          sufficiently predictable to provide potentially affected individuals with sufficient information about the circumstances
          and conditions under which the public authority is authorized to intrude on their privacy, so that they may adjust their
          behavior in such a way as to avoid into conflict with a restrictive norm... The assessment of the admissibility of a given
          intervention from the point of view of the principle of proportionality (in the broader sense) then includes three criteria."
          He then continued with the application of the standard three-step proportionality test.


           [50] The proportionality test formulated by the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice requires that the measure in
          question is capable of achieving the legitimate goals pursued by the legislation in question and does not exceed the
          limits of what is reasonable and necessary to achieve these goals (see the judgment of 04/08/2014 in the combined
          cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland Ltd and Seitlinger and others, paragraph 46 and the case law
          cited here, available like the other decisions of the Court of Justice mentioned here at https://curia.europa.eu). Thus,
          it is necessary to examine whether the measure under consideration is capable of achieving the set legitimate goal
          and whether there are no other, less restrictive means to achieve it.



           [51] In the considered case § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act (similarly also to Article 7
          letter f) of Directive 95/46/EC) enshrines the obligation to balance conflicting interests at the legal level, while it is only
          a matter of determining the legal basis for lawful data processing (and therefore essentially assessment of fulfillment
          of the legality criterion). This provision provides an exhaustive and restrictive list of cases in which the processing of
          personal data can be considered lawful (judgment of the Court of Justice of 24 November 2011 in the joined cases
          C-468/10 and C-469/10, ASNEF AND FECEMD) . As stated by GA Bobek in his opinion of 26/01/2017 in case
          C-13/16, Valsts policijas Rÿgas, Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC contains three types of grounds for the legal processing
          of personal data: first, the granting of consent by the subject data [Art. 7 letters and)]; secondly, situations where the
          legitimate interests of the controller or third parties are assumed to a certain extent [Article 7 letter b) to e)]; and
          thirdly, situations where conflicting legitimate interests must not only be demonstrated, but these interests must also
           prevail over the interests or rights and freedoms of the data subject [Article 7 lit. F)]. According to the judgment of
          4/5/2017 in case C-13/16, Valsts policijas Rÿgas, Article 7 letter f) Directive 95/46/EC establishes three cumulative
           conditions for the processing of personal data to be lawful, namely, firstly, the monitoring of the legitimate interest of
          the controller or a third person or persons to whom the data are communicated, secondly, the necessity of personal
          data processing for the realization of the monitored legitimate interests and, thirdly, the fulfillment of the condition that
          they do not take precedence over the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person to whom data protection applies
          (balancing of interests).




           [52] With regard to the condition of monitoring the legitimate interest, the Court of Justice in its jurisprudence
          considered, for example, the protection of the property, health and life of the data controller to be a legitimate interest
          (judgment of 11 December 2014 in case C-212/13, Ryneš) , proper functioning of websites (judgment of 19/10/2016
          in case C-582/14, Breyer), transparency (judgment of 9/11/2010 in joined cases C-92/09 and C-93/09, Volker und
          Markus Schecke and Eifert) or the interest of a third party to obtain personal data about the person who damaged his
          property, in order to sue for damages (the already mentioned judgment in Valsts policijas Rÿgas case). Opinion
          06/2014 of the data protection working group on Article 29 adds that the legitimate interest must be distinguished
          from the purpose of personal data processing. While the purpose is the reason for which the data is processed,
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                           2 As 107/2017


          legitimate interest represents an important value or benefit for the administrator. The concept of legitimate
          interest covers a wide range of interests, but they must be properly established and must be real, not just
          potential (opinion 844/14/EN WP 217, available at http://ec.europa.eu). Regarding the second condition,
          the Court of Justice stated that exceptions to the principle of personal data protection and its limitations
          must be made within the limits of what is absolutely necessary (judgments of 7 November 2013 in case
          C-473/12, IPI, of 27 9. 2017 in case C-73/16, Puškár, or the already mentioned judgments in the case
          Ryneš and Volker und Markus Schecke and Eifert). The condition of necessity corresponds to the basic
          test of proportionality as formulated by the Court of Justice in its previous jurisprudence. The chosen
          means must not go beyond what is necessary, but at the same time it must be able to achieve the set goal
          [the already mentioned judgment in the Puškár case and the already mentioned opinion of GA Bobka in
          the Valsts policijas Rÿgas case; generally on the proportionality test, see, for example, the judgment of
          10/12/2002 in case C-491/01, British American Tobacco (Investments) and Imperial Tobacco, point 122
          and the case law cited here]. The third condition concerns the balancing of conflicting rights and interests
          and, according to the Court of Justice, always depends on the specific circumstances of individual cases
          (see the already mentioned judgments ASNEF AND FECEMD, Breyer or Valsts policijas Rÿgas).

          [53] The court-defined algorithm for assessing the fulfillment of the conditions of Article 7 letter f) Directive
          95/46/EC thus basically corresponds to the proportionality test formulated in the jurisprudence of the
          Constitutional Court (and applied by the Supreme Administrative Court in a number of its decisions, see
          e.g. judgments of 25/02/2015, no. 1 As 113/ 2012 – 133, published under No. 3222/2015 Coll. As 245/2016
          – 41). The processing of personal data must be suitable for achieving a legitimate interest, but at the same
          time there must not be other, less restrictive means.

          In the final step, competing interests must be balanced, taking into account the specific conditions of each
          individual case. When balancing conflicting interests, however, it is not enough to compare the nature of
          the interests concerned, because in such a case no legitimate interest other than an interest equal to a
          constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right could stand, which is inadmissible with regard to the
          interpretive principle of a rational legislator. If the Union legislator stipulated in Article 7 letter f) Directive
          95/46/EC, the possibility of processing personal data for the purpose of realizing the legitimate interests
          (not only fundamental rights) of the administrator, this possibility cannot be completely denied by an overly
          restrictive approach to the balancing condition. On the contrary, it follows from the jurisprudence of the
          Court of Justice that balancing depends mainly on the specific conditions of the given case, where, in
          addition to the seriousness of the interest concerned, it is necessary to examine, for example, the existence
          of data in public registers, the age of the data subject or the quality and extent of the processed data. In
          this direction, the opinion of the municipal court needs to be partially corrected.

           [54] In the case under consideration, one can agree with the municipal court that the members of the
          applicant have a legitimate interest in verifying the creditworthiness of consumers before entering into a
          contractual relationship with it. Verification of the creditworthiness of the consumer serves the members of
          the applicant to limit the business risk, to set favorable contractual terms and, for those entities that are
          required by the Consumer Credit Act, to properly assess the creditworthiness of consumers. The Supreme
          Administrative Court, on the other hand, found the complainant's argument unfounded that the legitimate
          interest can also be seen in the protection of the property rights of the complainant's members. From the
          right to ownership, the creditor's right to prevent the debtor from entering into further contractual
          relationships or to defend against the debtor's further indebtedness cannot be derived. Basic rights protect
          individuals primarily against interference by the state, in exceptional cases also in horizontal relationships.
          However, an individual cannot interfere in the legal relations between two other private persons in order to
          protect his rights. The mention of the general duty of professional care was not elaborated in detail by the
          complainant, therefore the Supreme Administrative Court could not deal with it in more detail.
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                              2 As 107/2017 - 81
          continuation

          [55] The issue of assessing the creditworthiness of consumers before concluding a credit agreement is extensively
          regulated at the EU and national level, therefore the Supreme Administrative Court considers it necessary to deal
          more closely with the legitimate interest in properly assessing the creditworthiness of consumers.
          First of all, two facts must be emphasized. First of all, the complainant's members are a number of entities that do not
          have the obligation to verify the creditworthiness of consumers at all (see, for example, the companies AVON
          Cosmetics, spol. s ro, E. ON ÿeská republika, sro, or O2 Czech Republic, as).
          Secondly, the law on consumer credit effective at the relevant time (nor from directive 2008/48/EC) does not result in
          the obligation to verify the creditworthiness of consumers in the negative register maintained by the complainant.



          [56] Pursuant to Section 9 of the Consumer Credit Act, the creditor is obliged to assess the consumer's ability to
          repay the consumer loan with professional care, on the basis of sufficient information also obtained from the consumer
          and, if necessary, by consulting databases enabling the assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness. Beyond
          what is necessary, it can be stated that Act No. 257/2016 Coll., on consumer credit, as amended (hereinafter referred
          to as the "new act on consumer credit"), similarly provides in § 86 that the entrepreneur is obliged to assess the
          consumer's creditworthiness on the basis of necessary, reliable, sufficient and reasonable information obtained from
          the consumer and, if necessary, from a database enabling the assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness or
          from other sources. Similarly, Article 8 of Directive 2008/48/EC states that "[Member States shall ensure that, before
          concluding a credit agreement, the creditor assesses the consumer's creditworthiness on the basis of sufficient
          information obtained from the consumer, if necessary, and, if necessary, on the basis of a search in the relevant
          database." In the second sentence of the cited provision of the directive, the directive allows member states to
          maintain the obligation to verify creditworthiness using information databases, but it does not specify this obligation
          itself. Art. 9 of the directive then ensures equal access to databases for entrepreneurs established in another member
          state and the information obligation of entrepreneurs regarding the data contained in the databases. According to
          point 26 of the preamble to Directive 2008/48/EC "[Member States], taking into account the special characteristics of
          their credit markets, should take appropriate measures to promote responsible practices at all stages of the credit
          relationship." These measures may include, for example, information and education of consumers, including warnings
          about the risks associated with late payments and excessive indebtedness.


          Above all, in an expanding credit market, it is important that lenders do not engage in irresponsible lending or provide
          loans without a prior creditworthiness assessment, and Member States should exercise the necessary supervision to
          prevent such behavior and should establish the necessary means to sanction lenders in such cases . … For this
          purpose, they should be allowed to use the information provided by the consumer not only during the preparation of
          the given credit agreement, but also during the long-term business relationship. Member State authorities could also
          issue appropriate guidelines and general guidelines for creditors. The consumer should also act prudently and comply
          with his contractual obligations." According to point 28 of the justification of the directive "[to] assess the
          creditworthiness of the consumer, the creditor should also search the relevant databases; legal and factual
          circumstances may require this search to vary in scope. In order to avoid distortion of competition between creditors,
          it should be ensured that creditors have access to private or public databases relating to consumers in the Member
          State in which they are not established, under conditions which do not lead to discrimination against creditors in that
          Member State." According to point 45 justification of the directive "[t]his directive respects fundamental rights and
          respects the principles recognized in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It
          primarily strives to ensure full compliance with the rules on personal data protection, property rights, non-discrimination,
          protection of family and professional life and consumer protection according to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union


          [57] According to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 27/03/2014 in case C-565/12, LCL Le Crédit Lyonnais, the
          creditor's pre-contractual obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the debtor aims to protect the consumer from
          the risks of over-indebtedness and insolvency. In the judgment of 18/12/2014 in case C-449/13, CA Consumer
          Finance SA, the Court of Justice confirmed that Directive 2008/48/EC does not oblige credit providers to systematically
          check the veracity of information provided by consumers in information databases. According
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                               2 As 107/2017



          on the circumstances of each individual case, the credit provider must consider whether the information obtained
          is sufficient to assess the creditworthiness of the consumer. The sufficiency of the stated information may vary
          according to the circumstances under which the credit agreement is concluded, according to the personal
          situation of the consumer or according to the amount of the loan specified in this agreement. The assessment
          can be carried out using documents about the financial situation of the consumer, or previously acquired
          knowledge about the financial situation of the applicant for a loan. However, mere unsubstantiated statements
          by the consumer cannot be qualified as sufficient in themselves if they are not supported by any documents.

          [58] With regard to the above, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded that the legislation on consumer
          protection in the provision of loans shows an emphasis on protecting consumers from irresponsible conclusion
          of credit agreements that exceed their financial capabilities and may lead to their insolvency. This regulation is
          based on the public interest of the state and the European Union in limiting the over-indebting of natural persons,
          which in the case of long-term loans can have negative effects on the functioning of the state's economy. For this
          purpose, credit providers are obliged to verify the creditworthiness of consumers before concluding a contract.
          Failure to fulfill this obligation is an administrative offense according to § 20 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Act on
          Consumer Credit, for which a fine of up to CZK 20,000,000 can be imposed according to Section 20, Paragraph
          5 of the same Act. However, as Directive 2008/48/EC itself emphasizes in point 45 of the justification, ensuring
          the objectives of the Directive, including the fulfillment of the obligation to verify creditworthiness by entrepreneurs,
          must be in line with the protection of fundamental rights, including the explicitly mentioned protection of personal
          data. The fact that some member states stipulate the obligation to access databases, as stated by the
          complainant, does not change the fact that the Czech legislator has not enshrined this obligation in the legal
          system, nor does it regulate the management of the relevant databases in any way.



          [59] The Supreme Administrative Court further agrees with the municipal court that the assessed negative
          register is a suitable means of achieving the aforementioned legitimate interests. The collection of information on
          consumers' outstanding claims against credit providers, telecommunication service providers, energy suppliers
          or other important economic entities is eligible to help assess the creditworthiness of consumers in order to
          assess their creditworthiness or optimally set contractual terms. The Supreme Administrative Court therefore
          proceeded to assess the condition of necessity, i.e. whether the assessed interference with the right to personal
          data protection goes beyond what is necessary to achieve the set goal.

          We can agree with the complainant that the condition of consent to the processing of personal data in the
          negative register leads to a significant reduction in the reliability of the records in the register and thus to its
          inefficiency. The essence of the current functioning of the negative register is that if the consumer is not listed in
          the register, he has no outstanding claims against the members of the complainant.
          If consent were required to be included in the register, it would not be clear when looking at the register whether
          the consumer is not listed in the register because he has no outstanding claim or because he has not given
          consent to the processing of his data. However, as the municipal court already stated, while the complainant did
          not dispute this conclusion, the management of information databases is not the only tool for assessing the
          creditworthiness of consumers. The necessary information must first of all be requested from the consumers
          themselves, while entrepreneurs have the right to demand documents about the consumer's financial situation.
          With regard to the significantly stronger legal and informational position of entrepreneurs compared to consumers,
          it cannot be concluded that the complainant's members are completely powerless against the failure to provide
          or incorrect provision of information from consumers, which the complainant neither claimed nor substantiated.
          A number of essential information can also be obtained from publicly accessible registers, such as the insolvency
          register, or from information that consumers voluntarily disclose about themselves.
          If the complainant objects that personal data were processed only to the extent necessary, taking into account
          that the consumer's consent was needed to access the databases, then it must be stated in accordance with the
          municipal court that the considered procedure concerns the absence of consent
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                           2 As 107/2017 - 82
          continuation

          for the collection of personal data itself. From the essence of the matter, it cannot be argued that further processing
          requires the consent of the data subject.


          12a      The complainant must be convinced that energy suppliers of last resort within the meaning of [60] Section
          of the Energy Act are in a less favorable position compared to other entrepreneurs due to their contractual
          obligations. On the other hand, taking into account that the energy supply needs to be secured by the consumer,
          as a rule, throughout his life, these suppliers can easily require the consumer to present documents about his
          previous payment history, if he is a new customer, and in case of refusal, set a contractual conditions as if it were
          a person listed in the negative register. The complainant cannot be convinced that telephone service providers are
          in a similar position to energy suppliers of last resort, with regard to Section 63(4) of the Act on Electronic
          Communications.


          Pursuant to Section 65(2) of the Act on Electronic Communications, the entrepreneur has the right to limit services
          if the participant has not paid within the due date stated on the invoice for the price for the services provided, has
          been demonstrably warned by the entrepreneur of non-payment and has been given an alternative performance
          period of no less than 1 week from the date of delivery of the notice. Furthermore, the entrepreneur has the right to
          terminate the contractual relationship in accordance with Section 65, paragraph 3 of the same law, in cases where
          the participant intentionally provided incorrect personal or identification data or consistently paid late or consistently
          did not pay the price for the services stated in the price statement, and only after a demonstrable warning from the
          participant. Consistent late payment for the purposes of this provision means payment of at least 2 consecutive
          price statements after the due date. Consistent non-payment for the purposes of this provision means the existence
          of at least 3 unpaid invoices.
          The Supreme Administrative Court is therefore, in agreement with the municipal court, that the complainant did not
          prove the condition of necessity arising from § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) of the Personal Data Protection Act.


          [61] The Supreme Administrative Court further dealt with the condition of balancing conflicting rights and interests
          for completeness. In the case under consideration, it must be taken into account that although the interest in
          properly assessing the creditworthiness of consumers is essential with regard to the public interest in the fight
          against excessive indebtedness, credit providers do not have the right to fully ascertain all relevant information. On
          the contrary, the assessment of creditworthiness is their duty, and in the event of a negative assessment, and due
          to insufficient information, they are obliged not to grant the loan.
          In addition, the complainant brings together a number of entities that are neither credit providers nor suppliers with
          contractual obligations. In their case, it is only a purely private, economically motivated interest in reducing business
          risk. Furthermore, it must be taken into account that it is a private database maintained by an association of
          economically significant entities, while the legislation effective during the relevant management period did not
          regulate the way personal data is processed in these databases. In balancing the rights and interests concerned, it
          is also necessary to take into account that the members of the applicant, as economically significant entities, have
          in themselves a considerable contractual advantage over consumers. Although the control carried out by the
          defendant mainly concerned the issue of the legal title for the processing of personal data, the administrative file
          shows a number of facts referring to insufficient guarantees in the processing of personal data. The data kept in
          the register were not updated frequently enough, there was no proper communication between the complainant
          and its members regarding the processing of specific data, and the data subjects were not properly informed.



          [62] In conclusion, the Supreme Administrative Court states that it did not comply with the applicant's proposal to
          ask a preliminary question. Pursuant to Article 267(3) TFEU, if a question arises concerning the interpretation of
          the founding treaties or the validity or interpretation of acts adopted by the bodies of the European Union in
          proceedings before a court of a Member State whose decision cannot be challenged by remedies under national
          law, that court is obliged to refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union with a request for a preliminary
          ruling. The procedure established by Article 267 TFEU is an instrument of cooperation between the Court of Justice
          and national courts, thanks to which the Court provides
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                               2 As 107/2017



          to national courts the interpretation of Union law that is necessary for them to resolve the disputes that these
          courts are to decide. Its purpose is to ensure the proper application and uniform interpretation of EU law in all
          member states (judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 October 1982 in case 283/81, Cilfit and others, point 7).



                    A national court, whose decision cannot be challenged by remedies under [63] national law, is obliged to
          refer to the Court of Justice, unless it has concluded that the question raised is not relevant or that the relevant
          provision of EU law has already been interpreted by the Court of Justice or that the correct application of EU law
          of law is so obvious that no room for reasonable doubt is left (judgment in Cilfit and others, paragraph 21). In its
          current jurisprudence, the Court of Justice nevertheless emphasizes that it is only for the national court to which
          the dispute has been brought and which must bear responsibility for the judicial decision that will be issued, to
          assess, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case, the necessity of a preliminary ruling in order to
          issue its judgment , as well as the relevance of the questions it asks the Court of Justice (judgment of 16/02/2012
          in case C-118/11, Eon Aset Menidjmunt, point 76, of 09/09/2015 in joined cases C-72/14 and C -197/14, X and
          TA van Dijk, or from 9/9/2015 in case C-160/14, João Filipe Ferreira da Silva e Brito and others). The need for
          rationality and efficiency in the judicial dialogue between national courts and the Court of Justice is also
          emphasized by professional literature [cf. Komárek, J. "In the court(s) we trust?" on the need for hierarchy and
          differentiation in the preliminary ruling procedure. European Law Review, 2007, Vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 467–491, and
          cited here Chalmers, D. The Dynamics of Judicial Authority and the Constitutional Treaty. In: Weiler, JHH,
          Eisgruber, CL (eds), Altneuland: The EU Constitution in a Contextual Perspective, Jean Monnet Working Paper
          5/04].



           [64] As follows from the jurisprudence referred to in paragraphs [51] and [52] of this decision, the Court of Justice
          has already sufficiently interpreted the conditions of application of Article 7 letter f) Directive 95/46/EC consisting
          in the identification of the legitimate interest of the data controller, the assessment of the necessity of processing
          and the balancing of conflicting interests. The meaning of the applicant's proposal of the first and second
          preliminary questions, as they were formulated, lies not in the interpretation, but in the application of the provision in question.
          However, as the Court of Justice has consistently emphasized, the responsibility for deciding a legal dispute rests
          with the national court, the Court of Justice only interprets ambiguous provisions of EU law (see the aforementioned
          judgments X and TA van Dijk and João Filipe Ferreira da Silva e Brito and others, or in general e.g. judgment of
          10/09/2015 in case C-106/14, FCD and FMB). The answer to the third proposed preliminary question has already
          been sufficiently clarified in the previous jurisprudence of the Court referred to in this decision. As regards the
          fourth question, it follows from the previous jurisprudence of the Court of Justice (mentioned in paragraph [57] of
          this decision) that the essence of Article 8, paragraph 1 of Directive 2008/48/EC is the introduction of the obligation
          of entrepreneurs to verify the creditworthiness of consumers, the entrepreneur will take advantage of this, which
          is not regulated by EU law, it only stipulates that the verification must be thorough and conclusive. The national
          court is entitled to assess itself that the means of verifying creditworthiness must be in accordance with other legal
          and constitutional regulations. The court's conclusion that this is a so-called acte éclairé is not changed by the
          applicant's reference to the judgment of the civil law panel of the court in Rotterdam, sp. No. 337940/HA RK
          09-171, nor a more specific reference to the case law of British and Italian courts. The decisions of other member
          states are relevant above all to assess whether the legislation in question is so obvious that no room for reasonable
          doubt is left, i.e. whether it is a so-called acte clair. According to the already mentioned judgment Cilfit and others,
          the assessment of whether it is a so-called acte clair depends, among other things, on taking into account the
          different language versions of the given regulation and the meaning of the given provision in different national
          legal systems. In the case under consideration, this was a question already sufficiently clarified by the Court of
          Justice, the conclusions of the Dutch Court of First Instance from 2010 (that is, before the issuance of all the
          above-cited relevant jurisprudence of the Court of Justice) cannot call into question the interpretation made by the
          Court of Justice. In addition, it should be recalled that when assessing the issue of balancing, the specific
          circumstances of each individual
Machine Translated by Google

                                                                                                                          2 As 107/2017 - 83
          continuation

          the case. In view of the limited information resulting from the referenced decision, the Dutch decision cannot be compared more
          closely with the case under consideration. Taking into account all of the above, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded
          that the conditions for the application of the exception from the obligation to submit a preliminary question to the Court of Justice
          pursuant to Article 267 of the TFEU are met in the case under consideration, as all relevant questions of the interpretation of
          EU law have already been sufficiently resolved by previous jurisprudence of the Court of Justice (this is a so-called acte éclairé,
          see judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 October 1982, case 283/81, Srl CILFIT).



                                                V. Conclusion and decision on the costs of the proceedings


          [65] The Supreme Administrative Court came to the conclusion, for the above reasons, that the cassation complaint is not well-
          founded, and therefore rejected it according to § 110 paragraph 1 in fine s. ÿí s.


          [66] The Supreme Administrative Court decided on the reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings in accordance with § 60
          paragraph 1 s. s. s. in conjunction with § 120 s. s. . The successful defendant did not claim to have incurred the costs of the
          cassation appeal proceedings, nor does it appear from the file of the Supreme Administrative Court that he incurred any costs
          beyond the scope of his normal activities, therefore he could not be granted the right to their compensation.




          [67] Pursuant to § 60, paragraph 5 of the Civil Procedure Code, a person participating in the proceedings has the right to reimbursement
          of only the costs of the proceedings incurred by him in connection with the fulfillment of the obligation imposed on him by the court. In
          this proceeding, however, no obligations were imposed on the person participating in the proceeding, therefore he is not entitled to
          compensation for the costs of the proceeding.




          Lesson learned: No appeals are admissible against this judgment .



                                                            In Brno on April 19, 2018



                                                                                                                     JUDr. Miluše Došková,
                                                                                                                       president of the senate
