  Friday, July 30, 2021 2: Press releases Wau Holland, companion of data protection, in the cinema documentary "Everything is one. Except the 0." Wau Holland passed away 20 years ago. He was co-founder of the Chaos Computer Club and companion of data protection - also in Schleswig-Holstein. Now film documents with him and about him are coming to the cinemas. On July 29, 2021, the 20th anniversary of Wau Holland's death, the documentary Alles ist eins. Except for the 0.” Premiere. The film follows Wau Holland from the early 1980s until his death. His life story is linked to the Chaos Computer Club (CCC), German network policy and the rapid development of digital technology. The film spans the arc to the present day with depictions of the revelations of Edward Snowden and Chelsea Manning, of Wikileaks and Julian Assange and of today's biometric surveillance options. Wau Holland in front of the Office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection, Kiel, 1999 - with the permission of Claus Schönleber [External] The journalist Wau Holland - actually Herwart Holland-Moritz - was one of the founders of the CCC. The CCC's demand "Use public data, protect private data", which is still valid today, illustrates the importance of freedom of information on the one hand and data protection on the other. Marit Hansen, the state representative for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, is one of the film sponsors. She still remembers her encounters with Wau Holland. She experienced it in the 1990s at events such as the Chaos Computer Congress in Hamburg, the Kieler Netztage or the data protection summer academy at her office. "Whether as an invited guest in a panel discussion or in a private circle - Wau always had something to say that made you think further: Complex systems are difficult - or impossible - to master. A detailed picture of a person can be constructed from data with ridiculously little information content. But this picture doesn't have to be correct. You can manipulate by leaving out information.” The Schleswig-Holstein data protection officers were not afraid of contact with the “hackers” or “computer frieks”. Hansen remembers: "At our summer academy in 1998 on the subject of 'The new data protection' in Kiel, Wau Holland identified 1995 as a turning point. Since then, users' posts have been fairly fully stored and collected in searchable archives - then: DejaNews. The mass of information grew. The faster computers made analysis possible for any purpose. The traceability of the data collection and evaluation was questionable.” Back then, people like Wau Holland already sensed the effects of big data and artificial intelligence, which we are increasingly experiencing today. Wau Holland was not only a visionary, but also had pioneers in the field of media literacy. In an interview from 1999 he reports that in England children have had computer lessons since 1984 from the first grade, while in Germany there is far too little computer science in the school and education sector. Hansen explains: “Anyone who listened to Wau knew that he wasn't just interested in using the technology, but in understanding the entire technical system and the social implications. Now, more than two decades later, this is fortunately no longer a revolutionary requirement, but implementation is still lacking.” The film “Everything is one. Ausser der 0.” makes these challenges tangible with the help of a variety of clips and contemporary documents. Hansen emphasizes: “It's important to look back in history to understand things better and to learn from them. But it is not an easy film to be showered with: In today's reality of freedom of information and data protection, the problems are still very relevant and far from being solved. The current development is worrying, as the news about the exploitation of security gaps with the spy software "Pegasus" also in Europe, about the control of private chat messages or about political decisions on state Trojans or data retention show." Information about the film "Everything is one . Except for the 0.":
https://allesisteins.film/[Extern] Appointment with a short introduction by the director and opportunity for questions:
July 30, 2021, 8:00 p.m., Kino in der Pumpe, Kiel – with Tanja Schwerdorf Appointment with a short introduction to the film godmother:
July 31, 2021, 7:00 p.m., Kino in der Pumpe, Kiel – with Marit Hansen For further dates see:
https://www.ccc.de/de/updates/2021/allesisteins [Extern]     If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: data protection history, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription Procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure