








HmbBfDI publishes Corona FAQ on its website

03/27/2020 • HmbBfDI



In the current situation of the Corona crisis and the resulting contact restrictions, communication via social media is of outstanding importance. At the same time, many people and companies have questions about converting their workplaces to a home office. All of this also affects data protection and the protection of privacy. This applies not least to the handling of health data from people who have come into contact with the virus.
Much of the normality of everyday life has changed as a result of the corona pandemic and raises new questions, especially with regard to the protection of privacy. In its Corona FAQ collection published online today, which is constantly being updated, the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HmbBfDI) provides up-to-date information on the issues that are currently frequently reaching the authority.
A frequently requested subject area is digital learning and communication tools in the school environment. Abstract answers are given in this FAQ; In the course of the coming week, the HmbBfDI will then present more specific criteria for the operation of communication tools related to various messenger services. This can be helpful especially for use in schools, for whose decision the school authorities or schools are responsible, but not the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. The HmbBfDI is available to the school authorities for advice.
On the question of data protection in times of Corona Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: "Especially in times of great uncertainty about upcoming social, economic and cultural upheavals, it can be said that the protection of data must be a reliable constant in all of our lives stay. Individual rights and freedoms may appear in a new way in the light of the current crisis, but they still need to be respected and can be asserted by those affected.”

Download Corona FAQ of the HmbBfDI (PDF)



press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "lxavhcqtignrdpjk");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "rwvkfzyutidbneoa");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp






