 

press release

 

Fonts are not so banal,

how many think:

Google Fonts triggers a wave of warnings

 

 
Erfurt, August 18, 2022: Due to current events, the Thuringian state commissioner would like

for data protection and freedom of information (TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse about the following

inform:

Threatening wave of warnings? According to media sources, there is currently a wave of warnings

come against thousands of website operators. The reason is the dynamic embedding

display of Google Fonts on their website without the prior consent of the visitors

obtain from the website. Complaints from this company are also regularly submitted to the TLfDI

stop against site operators. With a dynamic integration, the font

types of servers of the US group are loaded into the visitor's browser and thereby

personal data, such as B. the IP address of the user, transmitted to the USA.

According to the judgment of the District Court of Munich v. January 20, 2022, Az. 3 O

17493/20, against the general right of personality and the basic data protection

order. Details can be found in the reasons for the judgement, available at:

https://www.gesetze-bayern.de/Content/Document/Y-300-Z-BECKRS-B-2022-N-

612?hl=true

What exactly is Google Fonts about? Google Fonts are free fonts

of the US company Google, which are freely available. It's not everyone

Website operators are aware that Google Fonts are also used by embedded Google

Services (e.g. Google Maps, reCAPTCHA) are automatically loaded.

The European Court of Justice already ruled in its judgment of July 16, 2020 (C-

311/18 "Schrems II") that US law currently protects personal data

of citizens from the EU is not adequately guaranteed and declared the so-called "Pri-

vacy shield" invalid. Accordingly, the USA is considered to be the data protection law
Postal address:
 
 
 
Sales tax identification number: DE338711747
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57-3112900
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 

Office building: Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
 

 
 
 

 
 

- 2 -

"unsafe third country" that does not readily provide access to personal data

flow from Europe may receive. More information can be found on the website of the Federal Commissioner

responsible for data protection and freedom of information can be read:

 https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Fachthemen/ Inhalte/Europa-Internationales/Auswirkun-

gen-Schrems-II-Judgment.html

 

Recommendations of the TLfDI on Google Fonts to avoid warnings:

The TLfDI recommends that website operators check whether they are using Google Fonts

and if so, how the service is integrated into the website. Who dynamic google

Fonts uses, should save these fonts locally and use them from there in your own

embed website. If you don't know how to do this, can't find any instructions on the Internet,

should contact its web service provider. Strato, for example, has instructions

public: https://www.strato.de/blog/google-fonts-in-wordpress-lokal-hosten/ .

 
If the responsible website operators have any questions, they are welcome to contact the

Turn TLfDI.

 

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

(TLfDI)

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt

www.tlfdi.de

 

