1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00415/2020

RESOLUTION R/00649/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00415/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint filed
by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 2, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00415/2020

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 9, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
later, the claimed one).

The claimant states that the products contracted with the claimed, the
have put in the name of a third party, who has had your personal data since the month
May 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

Screenshot of the “My VODAFONE” application where it appears “B.B.B.
***NIF.1” associated with the postal address of the same.

Vodafone purchase summary where the name and surname of the
claimant associated with your mailing address.

On September 13, 2019, the claimant expands his claim
stating that he sent an email to the data protection delegate of the claimed party,
not receiving response.

Subsequently, they tell you that the products you contracted are once again at your disposal.
name, but the circumstance occurs that in the client area it continues to appear as
authorized.

Thus, in the month of September he called the customer service and

they addressed him with the name of the third.

Well, on September 11, 2019 at the OMIC they told him that they have the
response to his complaint, but it turns out that they answered him with the resolution of a
third.

Accompany the following documentation:

Screenshot of the "My VODAFONE" application where the CIF of the
complainant and that of a third party.

Copy of letter sent by the OMIC of ***LOCALIDAD.1 dated August 19
of 2019 where the respondent communicates to the OMIC its response in relation to the
Question raised by D. C.C.C.

Copy of 2 invoices of the claimed in the name of D. C.C.C. with issue dates
March 22 and May 22, 2019 respectively.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

On July 29, 2020, the respondent stated to this Agency the following:

1. That he was aware for the first time of what happened on July 3, 2019
when the claimant contacted the claimed party to report the incident.

1. Add that the claim was due to an error in the Vodafone systems
derived from the migration of their systems to Smart-Amdocs. that there was a
data matching in the ID ***ID.1 associated with the claimant.

2. That they have been able to verify that the incident that is the subject of the claim was
duly resolved on July 15, 2019, after having been
solved the crossing of data that occurred in the Vodafone systems and
effectively process the deactivation of the third party that was listed as
Customer ID holder associated with the claimant.

Provide a copy of the letter dated July 29, 2020 with the Vodafone logo
addressed to the claimant where it is stated that the incident has been duly
resolved on July 15, 2019, that the services associated with the account
ID ***ID.1 are currently only linked to your personal data.
It is also stated that no copy of its response has been sent to any
third.

It provides a screenshot of its systems where the third person appears in
status "disconnected" associated with the ID ***ID.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

3. On the other hand, they point out that, regarding the response to the OMIC of August
2019, they have been able to verify that due to an error in the response process
the claimant was sent a copy of an answer that was not related
with the complainant's claim before the OMIC and not the answer
intended for it, which had its origin in a punctual error of a
human and that in no case has proceeded to send the answer
intended for the claimant to a third party.

They provide a copy of the letter of August 19, 2019 with the Vodafone logo
addressed to the OMIC in relation to the issue raised by the complainant.

On October 16, 2020, a request for information was sent to
reclaimed. The notification is recorded as delivered on October 19, 2020.
receive reply.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

48-220920

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
time, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is considered proven that
in the systems of the defendant he appeared as the owner of the services contracted by the
claimant a third party.

In this way, it is fully accredited that the defendant violated the
principle of accuracy, contained in article 5.1 d) of the RGPD, as recognized in
his answer in which he states: “after having solved the crossing of
data occurred in the Vodafone systems and effectively process the
deactivation of the third party that was listed as the holder of the customer ID associated with the
claimant”.

On the other hand, the documentation in the file shows
that the respondent also violated the principle of confidentiality, article 5.1 f) of the
GDPR.

       In this sense, it is important to highlight that the complainant provided the answer to
your claim, and it was found that the respondent replied with the resolution of a
third.

It should also be taken into account that the respondent acknowledges said error and
states that: “in the answering process, the claimant was sent a copy of a
response that were not related to the complainant's claim before the
OMIC and not the response intended for it, which had its origin in an error
punctual of a human nature and that in no case has proceeded to send the
response intended for the claimant to a third party”.

Therefore, there is no doubt, given the regulation that violates the duty of secrecy of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD. It does not comply with security measures that give rise to
breach of confidentiality article 5.1 LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

In short, a third party could access the claimant's data, that is,
had access to the information associated with the services contracted by the claimant
which could constitute, by the defendant, two infractions, one against what
provided in article 5.1 d) of the RGPD, in relation to article 4.1 of the
LOPDGDD, and another against the provisions of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, in relation to the
Article 5.1 of the LOPDGDD that governs the principles of accuracy and confidentiality of
Personal information.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

These infractions can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanctions to be imposed

in accordance with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but significant

active (article 83.2 b).

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surname,

two, domicile) (according to article 83.2g).

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violations of articles 5.1.d) and
5.1. f) of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT D. ***INSTRUCTOR.1 as instructor and secretary
to Ms. ***SECRETARY.2, indicating that any of them may be challenged,
where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015,
of October 1, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
during the investigation phase, as well as the report of previous actions of
Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the sanctions that could correspond would be the following:





for the infringement of article 5.1 d) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a)
of the RGPD the sanction that would correspond would be a fine for an amount of
60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros) without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

for the infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the
RGPD the sanction that would correspond would be a fine for an amount of
30,000 euros (thirty thousand euros) without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with
NIF A80907397 granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate. In its
statement of allegations must provide your NIF and the number of the procedure that
appears at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that
the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present agreement of
beginning; which will entail a reduction of 20% for each of the
sanctions to be imposed in this proceeding, equivalent in this
case twelve thousand euros (€12,000), for the first offense charged and six thousand
euros (€6,000) for the second offense charged, that is, a total reduction
for this reason eighteen thousand euros (€18,000). With the application of this
reduction, the total amount of both sanctions would be established in
seventy-two thousand euros (€72,000), resolving the procedure with the
imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean
a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to
twelve thousand euros (€12,000), for the first offense charged and six thousand euros
(€6,000), that is, a total reduction for this reason of eighteen thousand euros
(€18,000). With the application of this reduction, the total amount of both
sanctions would be established at seventy-two thousand euros (€72,000) and their payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at fifty-four
thousand euros (€54,000).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in
administrative route against the sanction.
In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, 72,000 euros or 54,000 euros, you must do so
cash by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000
opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the Bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file
of performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the
LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On December 21, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
the sanction in the amount of 54,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00415/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-031219

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

