1

Authority for Personal Data 
P.O. Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague 
Hoge Nieuwstraat 8, 2514 EL The Hague 
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501 
autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl 
The Minister of Social Affairs and Employment 
P.O. Box 90801 
2509 LV THE HAGUE 
Date 
October 24, 2023 
Our reference 
z2023-02990 
Your letter dated 
August 15, 2023 
Contact person 
Your reference 
2023-0000495283 
Subject 
Advice on amendment to the Working Conditions Regulation  
Dear Ms. Van Gennip, 
 
In your letter dated August 15, 2023, the Authority for Personal Data (AP) was consulted pursuant to the provisions of Article 36, paragraph 4, of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regarding the draft amendment to the Working Conditions Regulation (hereinafter: the draft). 
 
The assessment of the personal data aspects of the draft gives the AP reason to make a comment.  
 
Scope of the draft  
For practitioners of certain types of (risky) professions, there is an obligation to be registered by the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment (hereinafter: the Minister of SZW) in specific registers of qualified professionals. The Minister of SZW processes in these registers the data of individuals who meet the requirements set by or under the Working Conditions Decree1 for practitioners of certain professions. This is with a view to consultation by, among others, employers, clients, and other directly involved parties. 
 
In the draft - the proposed amendment to the Working Conditions Regulation - the assignment set by the Working Conditions Decree is addressed to further specify by ministerial regulation which 'identifying data' and 'data on competence' an applicant for (re)registration must provide to be included in the relevant register and which data will be included in the register.2 The draft elaborates on which data is concerned for several specific registers.3 These include the Register of Fireworks Handlers, the Register of Fireworks Workers, the Register of Civil Diving Work, and the Register of Crane Operators.4 The data that an applicant for (re)registration must provide is the same as the data that will be included in the register. 
 
For these registers, the following (general) data5 is required:  
- first name(s) and last name; 
- date of birth and place of birth; 
- a copy or scan of documents demonstrating the required knowledge and skills. 
 
Specifically for the Register of Diving Work for Firefighters and Police, the following additional data6 is required for firefighters: 
- the safety region in which the employee works and the diving team to which the employee belongs. 
 
For police employees, only the following is included regarding 'identifying data' and 'data on competence' in the Register of Diving Work for Firefighters and Police7: 
- the personal number8 and an anonymized copy or scan of documents demonstrating the required knowledge and skills. 
 
Advice  
For the Register of Diving Work for Firefighters and Police, as noted, the safety region in which the employee works and the diving team to which the employee belongs must be provided additionally, and this data must also be included in the register. Neither the draft nor the explanation clarifies why the processing of this additional data is necessary. 
 
The AP advises addressing this in the explanation. 
 
Workload AP 
 
                                                                        
3 Not all registers contain the same data, p. 16 explanation (item by item). 
4 Regarding the Register of Crane Operators, the initially submitted draft to the AP (Article 1.1ca, paragraph 3, of the draft) stipulated that for a proof of registration or re-registration, an identifying data could also be a suitable passport photo. This provision has since been removed from the draft, as indicated by the handling official from SZW via email. 
5 Article 1.1ca, paragraph 1, of the draft. 
6 Article 1.1ca, paragraph 2, of the draft. 
7 Article 1.1ca, paragraph 2, of the draft. 
8 Police employees only need to provide the personal number assigned to them by their employer for registration or re-registration in the Register of Diving Work for Firefighters and Police. The personal number is the unique registration number with which a police employee is recorded in the police personnel administration and is the only identifying data that is included in this register (p. 17 item-by-item explanation). 

Date 
October 24, 2023 
Our reference 
z2023-02990 
 
3/3
 
The AP notes that the draft is not expected to require additional effort from the AP.  
 
Publication 
 
This advice will be published on the AP's website within two weeks. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
Authority for Personal Data,  
 
 
 
 
Aleid Wolfsen  
Chairman