 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Article 23 GDPR  

 

Version 2.0 

 

Adopted on 13 October 2021 

 

Adopted - after public consultation  

1 

Version Table  

Version 1.0 

Version 2.0 

15 December 2020  

13 October 2021 

 

Adoption of the Guidelines for 
public consultation  
Adoption  of  the  Guidelines 
after public consultation  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Adopted - after public consultation  

2 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 5 

The meaning of restrictions............................................................................................................. 6 

Requirements of Article 23(1) GDPR ............................................................................................... 7 

Respect of the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms .......................................... 7 
Legislative measures laying down restrictions and the need to be foreseeable (Recital 41 

3.1 
3.2 
and CJEU case law) .............................................................................................................................. 7 
3.3 
Grounds for the restrictions .................................................................................................... 9 
National security, defence and public security ............................................................... 9 
Prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the 

3.3.1 
3.3.2 
execution of criminal penalties including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats 
to public security ............................................................................................................................. 9 
Other important objectives of general public interest ................................................... 9 
3.3.3 
3.3.4 
Protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings ..................................... 10 
3.3.5 
Prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for 
regulated professions .................................................................................................................... 10 
3.3.6 
authority in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g) of Article 23 GDPR ......................... 10 
Protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others ........................... 11 
3.3.7 
3.3.8 
Enforcement of civil law claims ..................................................................................... 11 
Data subjects’ rights and controller’s obligations which may be restricted ......................... 11 
Necessity and proportionality test ........................................................................................ 11 
Requirements of Article 23(2) GDPR ............................................................................................. 13 

Monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected to the exercise of official 

3.4 
3.5 

Categories of personal data .................................................................................................. 13 
Scope of the restrictions ....................................................................................................... 14 
Safeguards to prevent abuse or unlawful access or transfer ................................................ 14 
Specification of the controller ............................................................................................... 14 
Storage periods ..................................................................................................................... 14 
Risks to data subjects’ rights and freedoms .......................................................................... 14 
Right to be informed about the restriction, unless prejudicial to the purpose of the 

4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
4.4 
4.5 
4.6 
4.7 
restriction .......................................................................................................................................... 15 
Consultation with the SAS (Articles 36(4) and 57(1)(c) GDPR) ...................................................... 16 

6  Non - observation of article 23 GDPR requirements by a Member State ..................................... 16 

7 

Specific elements for controllers and processors ......................................................................... 16 

7.1 Accountability Principle ............................................................................................................... 16 

Adopted - after public consultation  

3 

7.2 Exercise of data subject’s rights after the lifting of the restriction ............................................. 17 
7.3 Non-observation of a legislative measure imposing such restrictions by a controller ............... 17 
Conclusions .................................................................................................................................... 18 

Annex: Check-lists - Article 23 GDPR in a nutshell ........................................................................ 19 

9.1 
9.2 

Requirements under Article 23(1) GDPR ............................................................................... 19 
Requirements under Article 23(2) GDPR ............................................................................... 19 

 
 

 

8 

9 

 

 

Adopted - after public consultation  

4 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter 
‘GDPR’), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

 

1 

INTRODUCTION 

1. 

2. 

3. 

This document seeks to provide guidance as to the application of Article 23 GDPR. These Guidelines 
provide  a  thorough  analysis  of  the  criteria  to  apply  restrictions,  the  assessments  that  need  to  be 
observed,  how  data  subjects  can  exercise  their  rights  once  the  restriction  is  lifted  and  the 
consequences for infringements of Article 23 GDPR. 

The protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right. 
Article  16(2)  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Functioning  of  the  European  Union  mandates  the  European 
Parliament and the Council to lay down the rules in relation to the protection of personal data and the 
rules relating to the free movement of personal data. The GDPR protects the rights and freedoms of 
natural persons and in particular their right to data protection. Data protection cannot be ensured 
without adhering to the rights and principles set out in the GDPR (Articles 12 to 22 and Article 34, as 
well as Article 5 in so far as its provisions correspond to the rights and obligations provided in Articles 
12  to  22  GDPR).  All  these  rights  and  obligations  are  at  the  core  of  the  fundamental  right  to  data 
protection  and  their  application  should  be  the  general  rule.  In  particular,  any  limitation  to  the 
fundamental right to data protection needs to observe Article 52 of the Charter of fundamental rights 
of the European Union (‘the Charter’). 

It is against this background that Article 23 GDPR should be read and interpreted. This provision is 
entitled ‘restrictions’. It provides that, under Union or Member State law, the application of certain 
provisions of the Regulation, relating to the rights of the data subjects and controllers’ obligations, 
may be restricted in the situations therein listed. Restrictions should  be seen  as exceptions to the 
general rule allowing the exercise of rights and imposing the obligations enshrined in the GDPR2. As 

                                                             
1 References to ‘Member States’ made throughout this document should be understood as references to ‘EEA 
Member States’. 
2 These situations do not include the scenarios where the Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of 
criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA applies.  

Adopted - after public consultation  

5 

such,  restrictions  should  be  interpreted  narrowly,  only  be  applied  in  specifically  provided 
circumstances and only when certain conditions are met.  

4. 

5. 

Even in exceptional situations, the protection of personal data cannot be restricted in its entirety. It 
must be upheld in all emergency measures, as per Article 23 GDPR thus contributing to the respect of 
the  overarching  values  of  democracy,  rule  of  law  and  fundamental  rights  on  which  the  Union  is 
founded: any measure taken by Member States shall respect the general principles of law, the essence 
of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  shall  not  be  irreversible  and  data  controllers  and 
processors shall continue to comply with data protection rules.  

In all cases, where Union or Member State law allows restrictions to data subjects’ rights or to the 
obligations of the controllers (including joint controllers3) and processors4, it should be noted that the 
accountability  principle,  as  laid  down  in  Article  5(2)  GDPR,  is  still  applicable.  This  means  that  the 
controller  is  responsible  for,  and  shall  be  able  to  demonstrate  to  the  data  subjects  his  or  her 
compliance with the EU data protection framework, including the principles relating to the processing 
of their data.  

6.  When the EU or national legislator lays down restrictions based on Article 23 GDPR, it shall ensure that 
it  meets  the  requirements  set  out  in  Article  52(1)  of  the  Charter,  and  in  particular  conduct  a 
proportionality assessment so that restrictions are limited to what is strictly necessary.  

2  THE MEANING OF RESTRICTIONS 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The term restrictions is not defined in the GDPR. Article 23 and Recital 73 GDPR only list the conditions 
under which restrictions can be applied. 

In these guidelines, the term restrictions will be defined as any limitation of scope of the obligations 
and rights provided for in Articles 12 to 22 and 34 GDPR as well as corresponding provisions of Article 5 
in accordance with Article 23 GDPR. A restriction to an individual right has to safeguard important 
objectives, for instance, the protection of rights and freedoms of others or important objectives of 
general  public  interest  of  the  Union  or  of  a  Member State  which  are  listed  in Article  23(1)  GDPR. 
Therefore, restrictions of data subjects’ rights can only occur when the listed interests are at stake5 
and these restrictions aim at safeguarding such interests. 

Consequently,  the  grounds  for  the  restriction  need  to  be  clear.  To  be  lawful,  restrictions  shall  be 
provided  for  in  a  legislative  measure,  concern  a  limited  number  of  rights  of  data  subjects  and/or 
controller’s obligations which are listed in Article 23 GDPR6, respect the essence of the fundamental 
rights and freedoms at issue, be a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society and 
safeguard one of the grounds set out in Article 23(1) GDPR as described below. 

                                                             
3  In  case  of  joint  controllership,  especially  in case where  controllers are  from  different Member  States, 
restrictions applicable in accordance with Article 23 should be considered and taken into account so that joint 
controllers clarify in the arrangement their respective roles. 
4 Although from now on the guidelines will refer to ‘controllers’ only, the recommendations are addressed, where 
applicable, also to processors.  
5 These interests are exhaustively listed in Article 23(1) GDPR. 
6  There  are  certain  rights  which  cannot  be  restricted  under  Article  23  GDPR,  such  as  the  right  to  submit  a 
complaint to the supervisory authority (Article 77 GDPR).  

Adopted - after public consultation  

6 

10. 

11. 

Furthermore,  as  mentioned  in  Recital  73  GDPR,  restrictions  should  be  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set out in the Charter and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights 
and Fundamental Freedoms. 

In  addition  to  restrictions  referred  to  in  Article  23,  the  GDPR  also  lays  down  provision  relating  to 
specific processing situations as per Chapter IX, where Member States may provide by law specific 
measures impacting data subjects’ rights, such as exemptions or derogations (for instance, Articles 85 
or 89 GDPR). However these guidelines do not address those cases.  

12.  Restricting the scope of the obligations and rights provided for in Article 12 to 22 and Article 34 may 
take different forms but may never reach the point of a general suspension of all rights. Legislative 
measures laying down restrictions under Article 23 GDPR may also foresee that the exercise of a right 
is delayed in time, that a right is exercised partially or circumscribed to certain categories of data or 
that a right can be exercised indirectly through an independent supervisory authority. 

3  REQUIREMENTS OF ARTICLE 23(1) GDPR 

13.  Article 23(1) GDPR lists a number of requirements, which are detailed below. All those requirements 

need to be met in order for a measure to be lawfully relied upon. 

3.1  Respect of the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms 

14.  One of the main objectives of data protection law is to enhance data subjects’ control over personal 
data concerning them. Any restriction shall respect the essence of the right that is being restricted. 
This means that restrictions that are extensive and intrusive to the extent that they void a fundamental 
right of its basic content, cannot be justified. In any case, a general exclusion of data subjects' rights 
with regard to all or specific data processing operations or with regard to specific controllers would 
not respect the essence of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, as enshrined in 
the Charter. If the essence of the right is compromised, the restriction shall be considered unlawful, 
without the need to further assess whether it serves an objective of general interest or satisfies the 
necessity and proportionality criteria.  

15. 

16. 

In  order  to guarantee  this  control,  data subjects  have  a  number  of  rights  within  the  right  to  data 
protection and the controller has a number of obligations vis a vis the data subject, set out under 
Articles 12 to 22 and Article 34 GDPR, as well as Article 5 in so far as its provisions correspond to the 
rights and obligations provided for in Articles 12 to 22 GDPR. It is against this background that Article 
23 GDPR should be read and interpreted.  

3.2  Legislative measures laying down restrictions and the need to be foreseeable 

(Recital 41 and CJEU case law) 

The requirement of a legislative measure entails that controllers can only rely on a restriction provided 
for by Article 23 GDPR to the extent that this restriction has been specified in Union or Member state 
law. Without the corresponding legislative measure, controllers cannot rely directly on the grounds 
listed in Article 23(1) GDPR. Recital 41 GDPR states that ‘[w]here this Regulation refers to a legal basis 
or a legislative measure, this does not necessarily require a legislative act adopted by a parliament, 
without  prejudice  to  requirements  pursuant  to  the  constitutional  order  of  the  Member  State 
concerned. However, such  a  legal  basis  or  legislative measure  should be  clear  and  precise  and  its 

Adopted - after public consultation  

7 

application should be foreseeable to persons subject to it, in accordance with the case-law of the Court 
of Justice of the European Union [...] and the European Court of Human Rights’7.  

17.  According to Article 52(1) of the Charter, any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms 
recognised by the Charter shall be ‘provided for by law’. This echoes the expression ‘in accordance 
with the law’ in Article 8(2) of  the European Convention of Human  Rights8,  which  means not only 
compliance with domestic law, but also relates to the quality of that law without prejudice to the 
nature of the act, requiring it to be compatible with the rule of law. In particular, the domestic law 
must be sufficiently clear in its terms to give individuals an adequate indication of the circumstances 
in and conditions under which controllers are empowered to resort to any such restrictions. The 
same strict standard should be applied for any restrictions that could be imposed by Member States. 
In line with the GDPR and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) and of the 
European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), it is indeed essential that legislative measures, which seek 
to restrict the scope of data subject rights or of controller’s obligations, are foreseeable for the data 
subjects.  

18.  While any legislative measure must in any case be adapted to the objective pursued and meet the 
foreseeability  criterion,  a  legislative  measure  laying  down  the  provisions  for  the  application  of 
restrictions under Article 23 GDPR does not always have to be limited in time or linked to a specific 
period.  

a. 

In some cases, the restriction is not specifically linked to a timeframe because the ground 
for the restriction to be safeguarded by the legislative measure is not in itself limited in 
time. In light of the principle of necessity and proportionality, it is necessary to ensure that 
such legislative measures relate to a ground for restriction to be safeguarded on an ongoing 
basis,  or  permanently,  in  a  democratic  society.  For  instance,  a  legislative  measure 
restricting the scope of the obligations and rights provided for in Article 12 to 22 and Article 
34, for safeguarding the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings may 
for example be considered as fulfilling a continuing objective in a democratic society and 
therefore may not be limited in time.  

b. 

In other cases, the ground for the restriction to be safeguarded is in itself limited in time 
and therefore the legislative measure should provide a limitation in time in order to meet 
the foreseeability criterion. For example, where restrictions are adopted in the context of 
a  state  of  emergency  to  safeguard  public  health,  the  EDPB  considers  that  restrictions, 
imposed  for  a  duration  not  precisely  limited  in  time,  do  not  meet  the  foreseeability 

                                                             
7 The type of legislative measures considered has to be in line with EU law or with the national law. Depending 
on the degree of interference of the restriction, a particular legislative measure, taking into account the level of 
norm, could be required at national level. 
8  See  in  particular,  European  Court  of  Human  Rights,  14  September  2010,  Sanoma  Uitgevers  B.V.  v.  The 
Netherlands, EC:ECHR:2010:0914JUD003822403, paragraph 83: ‘Further, as regards the words “in accordance 
with the law” and “prescribed by law” which appear in Articles 8 to 11 of the Convention, the Court observes 
that it has always understood the term “law” in its “substantive” sense, not its “formal” one; it has included both 
“written  law”,  encompassing  enactments  of  lower  ranking  statutes  and  regulatory  measures  taken  by 
professional regulatory bodies under independent rule-making powers delegated to them by Parliament, and 
unwritten law. “Law” must be understood to include both statutory law and judge-made “law”. In sum, the “law” 
is the provision in force as the competent courts have interpreted it’. On the notion of ‘provided for by law’, the 
criteria developed by the European Court of Human Rights should be used as suggested in CJEU Advocate General 
opinions in joined cases C‑203/15 and C‑698/15, Tele2 Sverige AB, ECLI:EU:C:2016:572, paragraphs 137-154 or 
in case C-70/10, Scarlet Extended, ECLI:EU:C:2011:255, paragraph 99. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

8 

criterion, including when such restriction apply retroactively or are subject to undefined 
conditions9.  

19. 

20. 

This link between the foreseen restrictions and the objective pursued should be clearly established 
and demonstrated in the concerned legislative measure or additional supplementary documents. For 
instance, the mere existence of a pandemic alone is not a sufficient reason to provide for any kind of 
restriction on the rights of data subjects; rather, any restriction shall clearly contribute to the safeguard 
of an important objective of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State. 

3.3  Grounds for the restrictions 
In order to adopt a legislative measure for restrictions and to apply a restriction in a concrete case, one 
or  several  of  the  following  conditions  stated  in  Article  23(1)  GDPR  need  to  be  met.  This  list  is 
exhaustive, meaning restrictions cannot be carried out under any other conditions than the ones listed 
below.  

21. 

The link between the foreseen restrictions and the objective pursued should be clearly stated in the 
legislative measure. 

3.3.1  National security, defence and public security 

22.  A restriction to data subject rights can have national or public security and/or defence of the Member 

States as an objective to be safeguarded, as stated in Article 23(1)(a), (b) and (c) GDPR.  

23.  Moreover,  public  security  includes  protection  of  human  life,  especially  in  response  to  natural  or 

manmade disasters.  

24. 

3.3.2  Prevention,  investigation,  detection  and  prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the 
execution of criminal penalties including the safeguarding against and the prevention 
of threats to public security  

In  certain  cases,  providing  information  to  the  data  subjects  who  are  under  investigation  might 
jeopardise the success of that investigation. Therefore, the restriction of the right to information or 
other data subject’s rights may be necessary, under Article 23(1)(d) GDPR. This is relevant for instance 
in the framework of anti-money laundering or the activities of forensic laboratories10.  

25.  Nonetheless, the omitted information shall, in accordance with the case law of the CJEU, be provided 
once and if it is no longer possible for it to jeopardise the investigation being carried out11. This means 
that a specific  (tailor-made) data protection notice  should be given to the data subject as soon  as 
possible, stating the different rights such as access, rectification etc.  

26.  Also, the objective of safeguarding public security includes the protection of human life especially in 

response to natural or manmade disasters12. 

3.3.3  Other important objectives of general public interest 

27.  Article 23(1)(e) GDPR mentions as other important objectives of general public interest of the Union 
or of a Member State important economic or financial interest, including monetary, budgetary and 
taxation matters, public health and social security. It may concern for instance the keeping of public 

                                                             
9 See also paragraph 46 below. 
10 Recital 19 GDPR. 
11 Opinion 1/15 of the CJEU (Grand Chamber) on the Draft PNR Agreement between Canada and the European 
Union, 26 July 2017, ECLI:EU:C:2017:592. 
12 Recital 73 GDPR. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

9 

registers kept for reasons of general public interest or the further processing of archived personal data 
to  provide  specific  information  related  to  the  political  behaviour  under  former  totalitarian  state 
regimes13.  However,  the  costs  incurred  as  a  consequence  of  providing  information  and  thus  the 
financial burden on public budgets are not sufficient to justify a public interest in restricting the rights 
of the data subjects. As an example a Direct Tax Administration may impose restrictions to the rights 
of access by the data subject where he or she is under an investigation led by the Tax Administration 
in the framework of its legal duty, in so far as this access would jeopardise the ongoing investigation. 
However such restriction should be limited to the time necessary for the specific investigation and 
should be lifted as soon as the Tax Administration closes the investigation. The data subject should be 
informed  without  delay  and  be  notified  with  the  justifications  contained  in  the  decision  of  the 
controller and with the date from which he or she may again exercise his or her right of access. Also 
appropriate safeguards should be ensured such as for instance an indirect access14 - when it is foreseen 
in  national  law  -  so  as  to  ensure  that  an  independent  Authority  may  check  the  lawfulness  of  the 
processing.  

28. 

In  order  to  ensure  the  general  public  interest  objective  of  accessibility  of  the  law,  a  public 
administration  may  impose  restrictions  to  the  right  to  object  the  processing  of  pseudonymised 
personal data for the development of a benchmark document and information identifying, by type of 
damage, the amounts claimed and offered by the parties to a dispute as well as the amounts allocated 
to  victims  as  compensation  for  their  physical  injury  in  court  decisions  delivered  on  appeal  by 
administrative courts and civil courts. Such restrictions may take place provided that the conditions 
under Article 23(2) GDPR are met, and in particular through the implementation of safeguards such as 
the approximation of compensation amounts, the deletion of the first and last names of the parties to 
the dispute and the pseudonymisation of the personal data processed. 

3.3.4  Protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings 

29.  Article  23(1)(f) GDPR  also  foresees  the  need  to restrict  certain  data  subjects’  rights  or  controller’s 

obligations, in order to protect judicial independence and judicial proceedings.  

30. 

The scope of these restrictions should be aligned with national legislation regulating these matters. 

3.3.5  Prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for 

regulated professions 

31.  Article 23(1)(g) GDPR mentions breaches of ethics for regulated professions, such as medical doctors 

and lawyers.  

32. 

These are cases in which an investigation does not relate in principle with criminal offences as, where 
the  investigation  concerns  a  criminal  offence,  the  ground  set  out  under  point  3.3.2  would  be 
applicable.  

3.3.6  Monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected to the exercise of official 

authority in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g) of Article 23 GDPR 

The ground for restriction mentioned in Article 23(2)(h) GDPR refers to a potential limitation when 
there  is  an  inspection  or  a  monitoring  exercise  or  a  regulatory  function  connected,  even  if  only 

                                                             
13 Recital 73 GDPR. 
14 I.e. the data subject may ask the competent supervisory authority to proceed with the necessary checks and 
verifications of the information concerning the data subject. Such indirect access may be established for instance 
to protect security of the State, defence or public security. The Supervisory authority may then access and verify 
the information and where relevant can request rectification or deletion of the personal data being processed.  

Adopted - after public consultation  

10 

occasionally, to the exercise of official authority in the cases referred to in points 3.3.1 to 3.3.3 and 
3.3.5. 

3.3.7  Protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others 

33.  Article 23(1)(i) GDPR refers to a ground for restriction that aims to protect the data subject or the rights 

and freedoms of other persons. 

34.  One can illustrate a restriction to protect the rights and freedoms of others with an example of an 
administrative inquiry and/or disciplinary proceedings or investigation on allegations of harassment in 
the workplace. In this case, a legislative measure may provide that the person subject to an inquiry or 
disciplinary proceedings may experience a limitation to his or her right of access, where the identity of 
an alleged victim or witness whistle-blower cannot be disclosed in order to protect him or her from 
retaliation. The victim or witness may also see his or her right of access restricted to respect the rights 
to privacy and data protection of the person subject to an inquiry or disciplinary proceedings. 

3.3.8  Enforcement of civil law claims 

35.  Article 23(1)(j) GDPR also includes the enforcement of civil law claims as a ground for restrictions. 
While Article 23(1)(j) GDPR allows limitations to protect the individual interests of a (potential) litigant, 
Article 23(1)(f) GDPR allows limitations to protect the court proceedings themselves as well as the 
applicable procedural rules. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

3.4  Data subjects’ rights and controller’s obligations which may be restricted  
In accordance with Article 23 GDPR, only Articles 12 to 22, Article 34 GDPR and Article 5 as far as its 
provisions correspond to the rights and obligations provided for in Article 12 to 22 can be restricted.  

The  restrictions  to  obligations  concern  restrictions  to  the  principles  relating  to  the  processing  of 
personal data as far as the provisions of Article 5 correspond to the obligations provided in Article 12 
to 22  GDPR and to the communication  of a personal data breach  to the  data  subjects (Article 34 
GDPR). Article 5 GDPR, which establishes the principles relating to the processing of personal data, is 
one of the most important articles in the GDPR. Restrictions to the data protection principles need to 
be duly justified by an exceptional situation, respecting the essence of the fundamental rights and 
freedoms  at  issue  and  following  a  necessity  and  proportionality  test15  (see  section  3.5  below).  It 
should be noted that Article 5 GDPR can be only restricted in so far as its provisions correspond to the 
rights and obligations provided in Articles 12 to 22 GDPR. 

The  restrictions  to  rights  concern  the  right  to  transparent  information  (Article  12  GDPR),  right  to 
information (Articles 13 and 14 GDPR), right of access (Article 15 GDPR), right to rectification (Article 16 
GDPR),  right  to  erasure  (Article  17  GDPR),  right  to  restriction  of  processing  (Article  18  GDPR), 
notification obligation regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing 
(Article 19 GDPR), right to data portability (Article 20 GDPR), right to object (Article 21 GDPR), right not 
to be subject to an automated individual decision making (Article 22 GDPR).  

39. 

This  means  that  any  other  data  subjects’  rights  -  such  as  the  right  to  lodge  a  complaint  to  the 
supervisory authority (Article 77 GDPR) - or other controllers’ obligations cannot be restricted. 

3.5  Necessity and proportionality test 
                                                             
15 See European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) Guidelines - 'Assessing the necessity of measures that limit 
the  fundamental  right  to  the  protection  of  personal  data:  A  Toolkit',  the  EDPS  Guidelines  on  assessing  the 
proportionality of measures that limit the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data 
and the EDPS quick-guide to necessity and proportionality. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

11 

40.  Restrictions are only lawful when they are a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic 
society,  as stated in Article 23(1) GDPR. This means that restrictions  need to  pass a necessity and 
proportionality test in order to be compliant with the GDPR16. The necessity and proportionality test 
should be carried out before the legislator decides to provide for a restriction. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

The objective to be safeguarded provides the background against which the necessity of the measure 
may be assessed. It is therefore important to identify the objective in sufficient detail so as to allow 
the assessment on whether the measure is necessary. For example, if in administrative proceedings it 
is necessary to restrict part of the investigation, but some information can already be disclosed to the 
data subjects concerned, then that information should be provided to the person. The case law of the 
CJEU applies a strict necessity test for any limitations on the exercise of the rights to personal data 
protection and respect for private life with regard to the processing of personal data: ‛derogations and 
limitations  in  relation  to  the  protection  of  personal  data  (...)  must  apply  only  insofar  as  is  strictly 
necessary’17.  The  ECtHR  applies  a  test  of  strict  necessity  depending  on  the  context  and  all 
circumstances at hand, such as with regard to secret surveillance measures18.  

If this test is satisfied, the proportionality of the envisaged measure will be assessed. Should the draft 
measure not pass the necessity test, there is no need to examine its proportionality. A measure which 
is not proved to be necessary should not be proposed unless and until it has been modified to meet 
the requirement of necessity.  

The necessity and proportionality test typically implies assessing the risks to the rights and freedoms 
of the data subjects. The risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects are detailed in point 4.7 of 
these guidelines. 

44.  According to the proportionality principle, the content of the legislative measure cannot exceed what 
is strictly necessary to safeguard the objectives listed in Article 23(1)(a) to (j) GDPR. The restriction 
must therefore be appropriate for attaining the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislation at issue 
and not exceed the limits of what is appropriate and necessary in order to achieve those objectives. 
According to the CJEU case law, Article 23 GDPR cannot be interpreted as being capable of conferring 
on  Member  States  the  power  to  undermine  respect  for  private  life,  disregarding  Article  7  of  the 
Charter,  or  any  of  the  other  guarantees  enshrined  therein.  In  particular,  the  power  conferred  on 
Member States by Article 23(1) GDPR may be exercised only in accordance with the requirement of 
proportionality,  according  to  which  derogations  and  limitations  in  relation  to  the  protection  of 
personal data must apply only in so far as is strictly necessary19.  

45.  A  proposed  restriction  measure  should  be  supported  by  evidence  describing  the  problem  to  be 
addressed by that measure, how it will be addressed by it, and why existing or less intrusive measures 
cannot  sufficiently  address  it.  There  is  also  a  requirement  to  demonstrate  how  any  proposed 

                                                             
16 Within the mission of the supervisory authorities and in order to ensure legal certainty it is advisable that the 
proportionality  and  necessity  test 
is  documented.  Supervisory  authorities  may  request  additional 
documentation. 
17 See CJEU, judgment of 16 December 2008, case C-73/07, Tietosuojavaltuutettu v. Satakunnan Markkinapörssi 
Oy and Satamedia Oy, ECLI:EU:C:2008:727, paragraph 56. 
18 See ECtHR, Szabo and Vissy v. Hungary, 12 January 2016, paragraph 73. 
19 CJEU, judgment of 6 October 2020, La Quadrature du net and others joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and 
C-520/18,  ECLI:EU:C:2020:791,  paragraph  210.  For  example,  in  relation  to  data  retention  by  online  public 
communication services and hosting services providers, the CJEU concluded, paragraph 212, that ‘Article 23(1) 
(GDPR), read in the light of Articles 7, 8 and 11 and Article 52(1) of the Charter, must be interpreted as precluding 
national legislation which requires that providers of access to online public communication services and hosting 
service providers retain, generally and indiscriminately, inter alia, personal data relating to those services’. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

12 

interference or restriction genuinely meet objectives of general interest of the State and EU or the 
need to protect the rights and freedoms of others. The restriction of data protection rights will need 
to focus on specific risks.  

46. 

For example, if restrictions contribute to safeguarding public health in a state of emergency, the EDPB 
considers that the restrictions must be strictly limited in scope (e.g. as to the purpose, data subject 
rights  concerned or the  categories  of  controllers  concerned)  and  in  time. In  particular, it  must  be 
limited to the emergency state period. Data subject rights can be restricted but not denied.  

4  REQUIREMENTS OF ARTICLE 23(2) GDPR 

47.  According to the CJEU case law, any legislative measure adopted on the basis of Article 23(1) GDPR 
must,  in  particular,  comply  with  the  specific  requirements  set  out  in  Article  23(2)  of  the  GDPR20. 
Article 23(2)  GDPR  states  that  the  legislative  measures  imposing  restrictions  to  the  rights  of  data 
subjects and the controllers’ obligations shall contain, where relevant, specific provisions about several 
criteria  outlined  below.  As  a  rule,  all  the  requirements  detailed  below  should  be  included  in  the 
legislative measure imposing restrictions under Article 23 GDPR. 

48. 

Exceptions to this rule, based on the fact that one or more provisions in Article 23(2) GDPR are not 
relevant regarding the legislative measure foreseeing the restriction of data subjects’ rights, need to 
be duly justified by the legislator. The EDPB’s interpretation of the expression “where relevant” in 
Article 23(2) GDPR is linked to the circumstances.  

49.  Article 23(2)(a) GDPR mentions the purposes of the processing or categories of processing as one of 
the specific provisions that shall be mentioned in any legislative measures restricting the rights of data 
subjects or controllers’ obligations. As per Recital 8 GDPR, the reason for the restriction should be 
comprehensible to persons to whom it applies. This also involves a clear understanding of how and 
when the restriction may apply. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

For example, national legislation on prevention and investigation of breaches of ethics for regulated 
professions might state that if the  disclosure of the  fact that a person is under  investigation for a 
serious breach may be prejudicial to the purpose of the investigation, the information may not be 
disclosed to the data subject for a limited time. 

The  possible  purposes  of  the  processing  need  to  be  linked  to  the  grounds  for  the  restrictions 
mentioned in point 3.3 of these guidelines. 

It should be said that sometimes the exercise of data subjects’ rights helps the controllers performing 
their function. For example, the right to rectification can contribute to the quality of the data. 

4.1  Categories of personal data 

53.  Article  23(2)(b)  GDPR  states  that  the  categories  of  personal  data  subject  to  restrictions  are  to  be 

indicated in the legislative measure foreseeing those restrictions21.  

                                                             
20 CJEU, judgment of 6 October 2020, La Quadrature du Net and others joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and 
C-520/18, ECLI:EU:C:2020:791, paragraph 209. 
21 Where possible, the controller can go further and list the specific data items to which the restriction of rights 
may apply, such as the preliminary results of an investigation, a decision opening an inquiry, etc. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

13 

54. 

In the same vein, restrictions concerning special categories of personal data may have a bigger impact 
on the data subjects and, therefore, the legislative measure setting such a restriction should mention 
the concerned special categories of data therein. 

4.2  Scope of the restrictions 

55.  Article 23(2)(c) GDPR prescribes that the scope of the restrictions shall also be specified, i.e. which 
rights are concerned and how far they are going to be limited, for instance, that a restriction only 
concerns  the  right  to  restriction  of  processing  (Article  18  GDPR),  or  that  it  may  concern  access, 
rectification and erasure. 

4.3  Safeguards to prevent abuse or unlawful access or transfer 

56.  Article 23(2)(d) GDPR states that the legislative measure shall include safeguards to prevent abuse or 
unlawful  access  or  transfer.  This  refers  in  particular  to  organisational  and/or  technical  measures22 
which are necessary in order to avoid breaches or unlawful transfers such as the storage in a safe way 
of  physical  documents.  For  example,  in  some  Member  States  the  exercise  of  rights  in  respect  of 
processing carried out in specific sectors can be exercised through the mediation of the national data 
protection supervisory authority (‘SA’). 

57. 

The legislative measure may also concern periodic measures to review a given decision on restrictions. 
The legislator may propose that each restriction implemented by the controller should be reviewed 
periodically to ensure that the justification for it is still valid. 

4.4  Specification of the controller 

58.  Article 23(2)(e) GDPR requires that the legislative measure specifies who the controller is or who the 
categories of controllers are. This appointment of the controllers in the legislative measure not only 
favours  legal  certainty  regarding  the  responsibility  for  the  processing  operations  in  relation  to  the 
restrictions, but also allows data subjects to know whom to address when exercising their rights, once 
the restriction is lifted. 

4.5  Storage periods 

59.  Article  23(2)(f)  GDPR  establishes  that  the  legislative  measure  must  include  a  specific  provision 
regarding the storage periods and applicable safeguards taking into account the nature, scope and 
purposes of the processing or categories of processing. For instance, the retention period could be 
calculated as the duration of the processing operation plus additional time for potential litigation. 

4.6  Risks to data subjects’ rights and freedoms 

60.  Article 23(2)(g) GDPR requires that the legislative measure include the risks to data subject’s rights and 
freedoms entailed by the restrictions. This is a very important step, which helps in the necessity and 
proportionality test of the restrictions.  

61. 

The goal of this assessment of the risks to data subjects’ rights and freedoms is twofold. On the one 
hand, it provides an overview of the potential impact of restrictions on data subjects. On the other 
hand, it provides elements for the necessity and proportionality test of the restrictions. In this regard 
and if applicable, a data protection impact assessment (‘DPIA’) should be considered23. 

                                                             
22 See EDPB Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 data protection by design and by default.  
23 See also Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining 
whether processing is "likely to result in a high risk" for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, wp248rev.01, 
endorsed by the EDPB on 25 may 2018.  

Adopted - after public consultation  

14 

62. 

The legislator should assess the risks to data subject’s rights and freedoms from the perspective of the 
data subjects. It is not always mandatory to perform a DPIA, but concrete risks to data subjects - such 
as erroneous profiling leading to discrimination, reduced human dignity24, freedom of speech, the right 
to privacy and data protection25, a bigger impact on vulnerable groups (such as children or persons 
with disability), to mention a few - may be stated in the legislative measure, if applicable. 

63.  When  such  assessment  is  provided,  the  EDPB  considers  necessary  to  include  it  in  the  recitals  or 

explanatory memorandum of the legislation26 or in the impact assessment27. 

4.7  Right to be informed about the restriction, unless prejudicial to the purpose of 

the restriction 

64.  Article 23(2)(h) GDPR states that, unless it may be prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction, data 
subjects shall be informed of the restriction. This means that data subjects should be informed about 
the restriction to their right to information as a rule. To that purpose, a general data protection notice 
may be sufficient. 

65. 

For example, where a  data subject  specifically asks  to exercise a  particular right at  a very delicate 
moment of a given administrative investigation, the data subject should, if possible, be informed of 
the reasons for the restriction. However, if informing the data subject of the reasons for the restriction 
would result in cancelling the effect of the restriction (i.e. would hamper the preliminary effects of the 
investigation),  that  information  may  not  be  disclosed.  Restrictions  may  be  adopted  to  protect 
investigations. In this case, restrictions must remain necessary and  proportionate and to do so an 
assessment should be performed by the controller to check whether informing the data subject of the 
restriction is prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction. 

66. 

In  other  words,  in  extraordinary  circumstances,  for  instance  in  the  very  preliminary  stages  of  an 
investigation, if the data subject requests information if he or she is being investigated, the controller 
could decide not to grant that information at that moment - if this restriction is lawful and strictly 
necessary in the specific case to what would be prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction. 

67.  At a later stage, such as after the preliminary phase of the investigation or inquiry is completed, data 
subjects should receive a (specific) data protection notice. It is still possible at this stage that certain 
rights continue to be restricted, such as the right of access to the information about the opening of an 
investigation, or to the allegations of potential victims of harassment28. This fact should be indicated 
in  the  data  protection  notice  along  with  an  indication  of  a  period in  which  the  rights  will  be  fully 
restored, if possible.  

                                                             
24 Human dignity is a right protected by Article 1 of the Charter. 
25 Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter. 
26 The purpose of the explanatory memorandum is to explain the reasons for, and the context of a legislative 
measure drawing on the different stages of the preparatory process. 
27 See Article 35(10) GDPR. 
28 For further information, see CJEU, judgment of 17 July 2014, YS v Minister voor Immigratie, Integratie en Asiel 
and Minister voor Immigratie, Integratie en Asiel v M and S, cases C-141/12 and C-372/12, ECLI:EU:C:2014:2081, 
paragraphs 45  and  46  and  judgment  of  20  December  2017,  Novak,  case  C-434/16,  ECLI:EU:C:2017:994, 
paragraph 56. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

15 

5  CONSULTATION WITH THE SAS (ARTICLES 36(4) AND 57(1)(C) 

GDPR) 

68. 

In accordance with Article 36(4) GDPR, where restrictions are adopted at the level of the Member 
States,  SAs  shall  be  consulted  before  the  adoption  of  the  legislative  measure  to  be  adopted  by  a 
national parliament, or of a regulatory measure based on such a legislative measure envisaging the 
restriction of data subjects’ rights under Article 23 GDPR.  

69.  Also, it is within the tasks of the SAs to provide advice on legislative measures relating to the protection 
of individuals’ rights and freedoms regarding their personal data processing, in accordance with Article 
57(1)(c) GDPR.  

70. 

71. 

72. 

73. 

74. 

If SAs are not duly consulted, they can issue under Article 58(3)(b) GDPR on their own initiative opinions 
to the national parliament, the Member State government or, in accordance with Member State law, 
to other institutions or bodies as well as to the public on any issue related to the protection of personal 
data. 

In addition, data protection legislation at national level may set out specific procedures regarding the 
adoption of legislative measures that aim at restricting the rights afforded by Articles 12 to 22 and 
Article 34 GDPR, in line with Article 23 GDPR. This could be the case only if in line with the GDPR.  

6  NON - OBSERVATION OF ARTICLE 23 GDPR REQUIREMENTS BY A 

MEMBER STATE 

The European Commission, as Guardian of the Treaties, has the duty to monitor the application of EU 
primary  and  secondary law  and  to ensure  its  uniform  application  throughout  the  EU,  including  by 
taking actions where national measures would fail to comply with EU law.  

Furthermore,  according  to  the  principle  of  supremacy  of  EU  law,  the  ‘duty  to  disapply  national 
legislation that is contrary to EU law is owed not only by national courts, but also by all organs of the 
State — including administrative authorities — called upon, within the exercise of their respective 
powers, to apply EU law’29.  

7  SPECIFIC ELEMENTS FOR CONTROLLERS AND PROCESSORS 

7.1 Accountability Principle 
In light of the accountability principle (Article 5(2) GDPR) and although it is not part of the records 
required under Article 30 GDPR, it is good practice that the controller documents the application of 
restrictions on concrete cases by keeping a record of their application. This record should include the 
applicable  reasons  for  the  restrictions,  which  ground(s)  among  those  listed  in  Article  23(1)  GDPR 
apply(ies) (where the legislative measure allows for restrictions on different grounds), its timing and 
the  outcome  of  the  necessity  and  proportionality  test.  The  records  should  be  made  available  on 
request to the data protection supervisory authority.  

75. 

In case the controller has a data protection officer (DPO), the DPO should be informed - at least in a 
general manner - without undue delay whenever data subject rights are restricted in accordance with 
                                                             
29 CJEU, judgment 4 December 2018, Case C-378/17, ECLI:EU:C:2018:979, paragraph 38. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

16 

the legislative measure. The DPO should be given access to the associated records and any documents 
concerning the factual or legal context in which the restriction takes place. The involvement of the 
DPO in the application of restrictions should also be documented. 

76. 

7.2 Exercise of data subject’s rights after the lifting of the restriction  
The controller should  lift the restrictions as soon as the circumstances that justify  them no longer 
apply. If the data subjects have not yet been informed of the restrictions before that moment, they 
should be at the latest when the restriction is lifted. 

77.  During the application of a restriction, data subjects may be allowed to exercise all their rights, that 
are not restricted. In order to assess when the restriction can be partially or integrally lifted, a necessity 
and proportionality test may be performed several times during the application of a restriction. 

78.  When the restriction is lifted - which should be documented in the record mentioned in section 5 - 

data subjects can exercise all their rights. 

79. 

If the controller does not allow data subjects to exercise their rights after the restriction has been 
lifted, the data subject can submit a complaint to the SA against the controller, in accordance with 
Article 57(1)(f) GDPR. 

7.3 Non-observation of a legislative measure imposing such restrictions by a controller 
80.  Where the legislative measures imposing restrictions under Article 23 GDPR comply with the GDPR but 
are infringed by a controller, SAs can make use of their advisory, investigative and corrective powers 
against it, as in any other case of non-observation of GDPR rules.  

81. 

In accordance with the powers foreseen in Article 58(1) GDPR, the SAs have the following investigative 
powers: 

 

 
 
 

 

order the controller and the processor, and, where applicable, the controller’s or processor's 
representative to provide any information it requires for the performance of its tasks;  
carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits;  
notify the controller or the processor of an alleged infringement of the GDPR;  
obtain, from the controller and the processor, access to all personal data and to all information 
necessary for the performance of its tasks;  
obtain  access  to  any  premises  of  the  controller  and  the  processor,  including  to  any  data 
processing equipment and means, in accordance with Union or Member State procedural law. 

 

82. 

If corrective measures need to be applied, the SAs can in accordance with Article 58(2) GDPR: 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

issue warnings to a controller or processor that intended processing operations are likely to 
infringe provisions of the GDPR;  
issue reprimands to a  controller or a processor  where processing operations have infringed 
provisions of the GDPR;  
order the controller or the processor to comply with the data subject's requests to exercise his 
or her rights pursuant to the GDPR;  
order  the  controller  or  processor  to  bring  processing  operations  into  compliance  with  the 
provisions of the GDPR, where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period;  
order the controller to communicate a personal data breach to the data subject;  
impose a temporary or definitive limitation including a ban on processing;  
order  the  rectification  or  erasure  of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  pursuant  to 
Articles  16,  17  and  18  GDPR  and  the  notification  of  such  actions to recipients  to  whom  the 
personal data have been disclosed pursuant to Article 17(2) and Article 19 GDPR;  

Adopted - after public consultation  

17 

 

 

impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or instead of measures 
referred to in Article 58(2) GDPR, depending on the circumstances of each individual case;  
order  the  suspension  of  data  flows  to  a  recipient  in  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 
organisation. 

 

83.  Regarding the SAs advisory powers foreseen in Article 58(3) GDPR, they can: 

 

 

advice the controllers in accordance with the prior consultation procedure referred to in Article 
36(1) and (5) GDPR; 
authorise processing referred to in Article 36(5) GDPR, if the law of the Member State requires 
such prior authorisation. 

8  CONCLUSIONS 

84.  Article 23 GDPR allows under specific conditions, a national or Union legislator to restrict, by way of a 
legislative  measure,  the  scope  of  the  obligations  and  rights  provided  for  in  Articles  12  to  22  and 
Article 34, as well as Article 5 GDPR in so far as its provisions correspond to the rights and obligations 
provided for in Articles 12 to 22, when such a restriction respects the essence of the fundamental rights 
and freedoms and is a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard, 
inter alia, important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State. 

85.  Restrictions of data subjects’ rights need to observe the requirements stated in Article 23 GDPR. The 
Member  States  or  the  Union  issuing  the  legislative  measures  setting  those  restrictions  and  the 
controllers applying them should be aware of the exceptional nature of these restrictions. 

86. 

87. 

The  proportionality  test  should  be  carried  out  before  introducing  in  Union  or  Member  State  law 
restrictions on the rights of data subjects. 

SAs should be consulted before the adoption of the legislative measures setting the restrictions and 
have the powers to enforce its compliance with the GDPR. 

88.  Once restrictions are lifted, data subjects must be allowed to exercise their rights by the controller. 

 

 

Adopted - after public consultation  

18 

9  ANNEX: CHECK-LISTS - ARTICLE 23 GDPR IN A NUTSHELL 

9.1  Requirements under Article 23(1) GDPR  

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

iv. 

Respect of the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms 
Proportionality and necessity test 
Legislative measures laying down restrictions and the need to be foreseeable (Recital 41 
and CJEU case law) 
Data subjects’ rights and controller’s obligations which may be restricted  

a)  the right to transparent information (Article 12 GDPR),  
b)  right to information (Articles 13 and 14 GDPR),  
c)  right of access (Article 15 GDPR),  
d)  right to rectification (Article 16 GDPR),  
e)  right to erasure (Article 17 GDPR),  
f) 
g)  notification obligation regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or 

right to restriction of processing (Article 18 GDPR),  

restriction of processing (Article 19 GDPR),  
h)  right to data portability (Article 20 GDPR),  
i) 
j) 

right to object (Article 21 GDPR),  
right not to be subject to an automated individual decision making (Article 22 
GDPR) 

k)  obligations provided in Article 12 to 22 GDPR (Article 5 GDPR) and 
l) 

 the communication of a personal data breach to the data subjects (Article 34 
GDPR) 

v. 

Grounds for the restrictions 
a)  national security;  
b)  defence;  
c)  public security;  
d)  the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or 
the execution of criminal penalties, including the safeguarding against and the 
prevention of threats to public security;  

e)  other important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of a 

Member State, in particular an important economic or financial interest of the 
Union or of a Member State, including monetary, budgetary and taxation a 
matters, public health and social security;  
the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;  

f) 
g)  the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of breaches of ethics for 

regulated professions;  

h)  a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected, even occasionally, to 

the exercise of official authority in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and 
(g);  
the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others;  
the enforcement of civil law claims. 

i) 
j) 

 

9.2  Requirements under Article 23(2) GDPR 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 

The purposes of the processing or categories of processing;  
The categories of personal data;  
The scope of the restrictions introduced;  
The safeguards to prevent abuse or unlawful access or transfer;  
The specification of the controller or categories of controllers;  

Adopted - after public consultation  

19 

vi. 

vii. 
viii. 

The storage periods and the applicable safeguards taking into account the nature, scope 
and purposes of the processing or categories of processing;  
The risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects; and  
The right of data subjects to be informed about the restriction, unless that may be 
prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction. 

Adopted - after public consultation  

20 

