Deliberation HAB-2019-001 of May 9, 2019National Commission for Computing and LibertiesNature of the deliberation: Members and agentsLegal status: Repealed Date of publication on Légifrance: Wednesday May 15, 2019NOR: CNIL1913593XDeliberation No. HAB-2019-001 of May 9 2019 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out on-site verification missions The office of the National Commission for Data Processing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data; Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data; Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3; Having regard to law n° 78-17 of 6 January 1978 as amended relating to data processing, to files and freedoms, in particular its articles 11 (2°, f), 19, 20 and 44; Considering the decree n° 2005-1309 of October 20, 2005 modified taken for the application of the law of January 6, 1978, in particular its articles 57 to 60; Having regard to deliberation n° 2004-071 of September 9, 2004 delegating powers to the office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; Having regard to deliberation n° 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 relating adoption of the rules of procedure of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; Having heard Mrs. Sophie LAMBREMON, Deputy Vice-President, in her report, and Mrs. Nacima BELKACEM, Government Commissioner, in her observations; Decides: Article 1: The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Freedoms hereafter The designated persons are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 44 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code: Mrs. Dorine ARNAUDEAU, lawyer in the complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Audrey BACQUIE, assistant in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle BARBE, legal assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Siré BARRY, Legal Assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Leslie BASSE, Legal Officer in the Controls Department in the the protection of rights and sanctions;Mr. Franck BAUDOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Mr. Florent BAZONNET, legal assistant in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Nacéra BEKHAT, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, assistant in the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Justine BERTAUD DU CHAZAUD, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mr. Thomas BIZET, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms. Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Maxime BLANCHOT, Legal Officer in the Controls Department at the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms. Nana BOTCHORICHVILI, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the Compliance Tools Department to the compliance department; Mrs. Soumia BOUASSAM, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Erik BOUCHER-DE-CREVECOEUR, Expert Engineer in the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department; Ms. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, Legal Officer in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms. Sophie BORY, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Mrs. Véronique BREMOND, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and sanctions; Ms Emilie BRUNET, jurist in the European and international affairs department; Ms Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs Marion de CASTELBAJAC, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and penalties department; Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies in the innovation, studies and prospective division in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department ;M. Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research; Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, Chief Compliance Officer; Mr. Philippe DECLAIRIEUX, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle DELERUE, assistant in the rights protection and penalties department; Mr. Eric DELISLE, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Head of the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Sadio DIOUMASSY, Legal Assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Alexandra DORE, Legal Officer in the Department of health in the compliance department; Mr. Julien DROCHON, lead information systems auditor in the control department of the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms. Manon de FALLOIS, lawyer in the health department of the compliance department; Ms. Marie FERTE, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Ms. Anne FONTANILLE, lawyer in the department of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Ms. Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general ;M. Emile GABRIE, adviser to the Chairman and the Secretary General; Mrs Marion de GASQUET, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Rodolphe GENISSEL, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Deputy Head of the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Ms Lorena GONZALEZ, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Mr. Jérôme GORIN, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Matthieu GRALL, head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Michel GUEDRÉ, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs. Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Ms. Fatima HAMDI, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms. Estelle HARY, designer in the from technological expertise to the technology and innovation department;Mr. Paul HEBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance; Mr. Armand HESLOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Sonia HUDELA, assistant in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation directorate; Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, legal assistant in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Maya JOUBIN, legal expert in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Pauline KIENLEN, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department, Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Karin KIEFER, Deputy Director of Rights Protection and Sanctions; Ms Joana KOJUNDZIC, legal assistant in the complaints department in the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms. Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the complaints department in the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms. Alice de LA MURE, lawyer in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department;Mr. Gwendal LE GRAND, Director of Technology and Innovation; Mr. Pierre LEPHAY, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Jean LESSI, Secretary General; Ms Maud LETAY, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection Department and Sanctions; Ms Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Delphine MARGULIS, Legal Assistant in the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Mrs. . Etienne MAURY, jurist in the European and international affairs department; Mr. Jérôme de MERCEY, legal expert in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Marjorie MENAPACE, legal expert in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Elise MERY-BOUDONNAT, legal expert in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Mathias MOULIN, director of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Sophie NERBONNE, director in charge of economic co-regulation; Mr. Bao-Khanh NGUYEN TRUNG, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ingrid NKOUENJIN, head of the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms. Rabia OUADDAH , lawyer in the complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Marie PACALET, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Ms. Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the complaints department in the management the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Frédéric PATTE-BRASSEUR, auditor of information systems in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Bertrande PIAT-TAMBAREAU, legal assistant in the complaints department of the protection of rights and penalties department ;Mrs Délia RAHAL-LOFSKOG, jurist in the European and international affairs department;Mrs Florence RAYNAL, head of the European and international affairs department;Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Albane RICHET, lawyer in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ismini RIGOPOULOU, lawyer in the European and International Affairs Department; Mr. Valentin ROGER, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Guilda ROSTAMA, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department; Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the controls at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Isabelle SANSOT, lawyer in the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Stéphanie SAULNIER, lawyer in the Health Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Clémence SCOTTEZ, head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms. Emilie SERUGA-CAU, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance department; Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of Information Systems Security at the General Secretariat; Ms. Anne VIDAL, Legal Officer in the Health Department at the Compliance Department; Ms. Albine VINCENT, Head of the Data Protection Officers Department at the compliance; Mr. Christophe VIVENT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mrs Clémentine VOISARD, project manager for the public relations department; Mrs Sophie VULLIET-TAVERNIER, director of relations with and research; Article 2: Deliberation no. 2018-348 of November 8, 2018 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions is repealed. Article 3: The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic. The President, Marie-Laure DENIS