1/5

 File No.: EXP202103400

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated September 15
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against who identifies as B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in advance)
te, the party claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“That video-surveillance cameras have been installed despite the prohibition of
the Community of owners, ignoring the warnings of the representatives
representatives of the Community of owners, visualizing public space and homes and
private plots without just cause (...)”—folio nº 1--

Together with the claim, documentary evidence is provided that proves the presence

of the video-surveillance cameras (Annex I).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date 10/26/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On 11/30/21 a reply is received from the respondent party confirming
firm to be responsible for the installation of the camera system, considering that
they are on private property and the LPH does not apply.

Likewise, the cameras have been installed since 2018, not having any func-
right to any agreement retroactively. September 13
of 2018 the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia (TSJ-
Cat) issued a relevant judgment, number 74/2018.

FOURTH: On December 3, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FIFTH: On January 26, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed party, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: The database of this organization was consulted and received on 02/21/22
brief of allegations of the claimed party, denying the commission of infringement
any administration on the matter.

SEVENTH: On 02/23/22 collaboration is requested from the Security Forces and Corps
State Security so that those displaced to the scene of the events verify the pre-
presence of the cameras and the legality of the system in question.

EIGHTH: On 05/06/22 a Report was received from the Civil Guard (Comandancia
Toledo) who, after traveling to the scene of the events, confirmed the following:

-You can see the presence of 3 video surveillance cameras (...).

-Camera nº 3 that focuses on the interior of the farm located at the back of the

house on a wall approximately 2.5 meters high.

-When accessing the farm, two informative posters are observed, in which

indicates that it is a video-monitored area.

“The owner of the property gives his consent to access his house and can
view the monitors where the signal from the surveillance cameras is retransmitted.
You can only view 2 quadrants of 2 cameras, these being number 1 and number 3.
No 2 is not seen from the monitor since, according to the owner, an application must be downloaded.
cation to see it from the mobile. In the viewing it is observed that the focus of the cameras
Maras is directed to the interior of the farm only in case of opening the main door.
pal of the farm, when someone accesses the interior, they could record the exterior. Attached
photographic report of all the cameras and monitor”.

NINTH: On 05/23/22 a "resolution proposal" is issued in which it is proposed
the Archive of the actions, after verifying the acting force displaced to the place of
the facts the legality of the system, being the same notified in a timely manner to the
claimed party as stated in the computer system of this body, without
response and/or statement has occurred in this regard.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the document

information in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 09/15/21 through the
which translates as the main fact the following:

“That video-surveillance cameras have been installed despite the prohibition of
the Community of owners, ignoring the warnings of the representatives

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

representatives of the Community of owners, visualizing public space and homes and
private plots without just cause (...)”—folio nº 1--

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., who denies being
capturing public space.

Third. It is proven that the system has three cameras all oriented
them towards the interior area of their private property, without any capture of es-
any public space.

Fourth. It is accredited that the system has two informative signs indi-
when it is a video-monitored area.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The formal procedures
ted by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sidiario, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In the present case, the claim dated 09/15/21 is examined by me-
dio from which the "presence of a system of video-surveillance cameras
installed by an individual that affects public areas and third parties with the opposition of the
Owner board".

Examined the allegations of the defendant, they are installed in his
private courtyard, so it is considered that they are oriented a priori from
disproportionately towards public and/or private space of third parties without cause
justified.

The facts denounced could imply an affectation to the content of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD (regulation currently in force) that provides: “personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such extremes.
We report to the competent authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards their private space.
vative avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the objective environment.
of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain images
public spaces, the security function of public spaces corresponding to
It is exclusively for the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area, avoiding intimidation of neighboring neighbors who are unaware
know whether or not they process personal data.

Fake cameras can also affect personal privacy.
of the claimed, in such a way that it is a criterion maintained by this Agency that
they limit their radius of action (orientation) towards a private area, respecting the
tranquility of the private life of the affected, who does not have to know the nature
ity of the system, but neither bear being intimidated by it in its field
personal and/or domestic.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning agent, after moving the Security Forces and Bodies to the place of the
the presence of three video-surveillance cameras is verified, being visible car-
Informative phone adjusted to the regulations on data protection.

The three cameras installed focus towards the interior of private property
of the claimed, not verifying the capture of public space without just cause.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39&/2015 (October 1) provides the following:
"5. The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements
the facts verified by those are collected will prove them unless they are
prove the contrary”.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the chambers object of the claim are not
affect public space, not affecting the right(s) of an identified or identified third party.
cable, which is why the File of this procedure is proposed.

The rest of the issues are of a civil nature, taking into account
the current Horizontal Property Law (LPH Law 49/1960, July 21), having in its
case was raised in the appropriate judicial instances, by focusing the problem on
the presence of appliances installed in “common” areas of the Community of owners
rivers (as).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that concerns us.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-050522

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

