1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00072/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The Association of Consumers and Users in Action (FACUA), acting
in the name and representation of D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on the 15th of
November 2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data.

The claim is directed against Curenergia Marketer of Last Resort

S.A. with NIF A95554630 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The grounds on which your claim is based are that your
identity because he did not receive the last two bills from the
claimed, because the postal address has been modified in them, indicating in the
themselves the home of his brother.

The claimant provides the following documentation:

Complaint to the National Police dated October 15, 2019.

Invoices of the last four months, in which it is verified that the two
The latter go to an address that the claimant has not provided,
producing an identity theft.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(LOPDGDD), which has provided a mechanism, prior to the admission for processing of the
claims made before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
consisting of transferring them to the Data Protection Delegates designated by
those responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes provided in article 37
of the aforementioned norm, or to these when they had not been designated, the transfer of the
claim presented by the claimant to the claimed, so that it proceeded to its
analysis and respond to this Agency within a month.

It is recorded that on April 29, 2020, the respondent responds to the
transfer of the claim, stating the following: “That the claimant resided in the
home located at ***ADDRESS.1, as a tenant. that from the month of
June 2019 and for unknown reasons, the claimant stops paying the
invoices corresponding to the supply, despite the fact that they were coming
sending to the same address as always and which corresponds to the point of
supply, that is: ***ADDRESS.1. Attached as document Annex No. 1, the
request for payment that is sent to the claimant at the same address as always
on June 28, 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

That subsequently, they were sent to the claimant, at the same address as
always, the invoices corresponding to the consumption of the following months, this
is the invoices dated July 4, and July 19, 2019. They are attached as
documents Annexes No. 2 and No. 3.

That the claimant definitively cancels the contract on July 19, 2019,
leaving unpaid the last two corresponding invoices.

That in relation to the statement of the claimant regarding the impossibility of paying
invoices for not receiving them at home, it is necessary to indicate that, not only is he
sent the payment requirements to their usual address, but also and
Had that been his true intention, the claimant could also have put
contact the CURENERGÍA telephone service number or through its
customer area, to ask the amount of the invoices and even pay them with the
help from the telephone service, by credit card, bank transfer or
at any ATM.

That on July 24, 2019, the address is modified for the purposes of
of notifications, by someone who is accredited by telephone as the owner
of the contract, for the purpose of paying the invoices pending payment. that the fact of
that there are third parties with the intention of supplanting identities, is a conduct that
CURENERGÍA attempts to mitigate by implementing, as has already been reported to
that Agency in similar files that have resulted in the filing of actions,
robust mechanisms through which it is ensured that the person requesting
carrying out any management with respect to your contract, such as a
change of telephone number, or a change of ownership, or any other management,
either in person at a service point, by telephone or through your
online client area, is the owner of the contract, requiring for this certain
personal information of the owner depending on the requested management.

However, any person who, due to their relationship with the claimant, has access to
said data, could supplant your identity without this being the responsibility of
CURENERGÍA, nor does it imply a violation in the protection of personal data
as the complainant alleges, since it is something totally alien to CURENERGÍA and its
verification procedures.

That notwithstanding the foregoing, CURENERGÍA has proceeded and in response
to the content of this claim, to modify again the address of
correspondence of the affected contract so that it returns to the address indicated by
the holder, as can be seen in the attached table, as indicated by the same
before this Agency.

THIRD: On March 15, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a letter of
dated April 6, 2021, made, in summary, the following allegations:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

“The claimant failed to pay the amount for the electricity supply
corresponding to the following invoices: • Invoice with reference number
09190708010052506 issued on July 8, 2019, corresponding to consumption
between June 4, 2019 and July 4, 2019. • Invoice with number of
reference 09190722010050187, issued on July 22, 2019, corresponding to the
consumption between July 4, 2019 and July 19, 2019. 3. The
The aforementioned invoices were issued in the name of the claimant and sent to the address of
supply. To this end, attached as documents number one and two are the aforementioned
original invoices, stating the aforementioned supply address.

On July 19, 2019, the complainant addressed Iberdrola, in whose Group he
integrates CURENERGÍA requesting the resolution of its supply contract
referenced as 318852070, to which my client proceeded on that same date.
Attached as document number three, written request for resolution of the contract
formulated by the Claimant, in which a copy of his National Document of
Identity, and as document number four, accreditation of the effective processing of the
cancellation of the service by means of a copy of the screen in which it appears as the date of cancellation
the one already mentioned at this point. 5.

On July 23, 2020, that is, four days after the resolution of the
previous contract, who identified himself as D. B.B.B. and claimed to be the owner of the estate
in which the claimant resided and with respect to which he had contracted the supply
electric went to Curenergia assuming the payment of the unsatisfied receipts for the
claimant and requesting registration with Iberdrola Clientes (hereinafter, "IBERCLI") in the
supply contract for the home located at ***ADDRESS.1.

On July 24, 2019, that is, five days after the resolution of the
previous contract the person who had assisted you the day before contacted
with D. B.B.B., in order to meet the request made by it. In this sense, it is
It is necessary to clarify that in accordance with the provisions of article 83.3 of the Royal Decree
1955/2000, of December 1, which regulates transport activities,
distribution, marketing, supply and authorization procedures for
electric power installations, in cases where the effective user of the
energy, with fair title, is a person other than the owner that appears in the contract, may
demand, as long as you are up to date with your payments, the change to your name of the
existing contract, without further formalities. Therefore, it is possible for the person who
declares to be the user of the energy at a supply point and to have fair title
on the property, you can put the contract in your name when there is no debt
pre-existing or proceed to pay pending invoices at said point of supply.
Attached as document number five is a recording of said call, of
which results in the following extremes: • The accreditation that D. B.B.B. there was
requested, the day immediately before, to take charge of the unpaid receipts and
enter into a new contract with IBERCLI (minute 0:36). • In said communication,
it shows that the service had been "deactivated by the tenant"; that is,
by the claimant, since the contract was in his name (minute 4:35). •
On the occasion of said communication, D. B.B.B. requested that they be forwarded to his
address copies of receipts pending payment, in order to prove your cash
payment (minute 0:32). • It was also provided to D. B.B.B., in its capacity as user
energy cash, the CURENERGIA bank account number in which to do
payment of unsatisfied receipts referring to the previously resolved contract, as well
as the reference of the contract, in order to be able to proceed to the payment of the same

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

(minute 2:05). • When the contract was terminated, a new one was requested.
regarding the service that had already been discharged by the claimant, granting
said contract, by telephone, by D. B.B.B..

To this end, D.B.B.B. provided as an email address for the
receipt of invoices ***EMAIL.1, being able to verify that the first three
letters coincide with the initials of the interested party (minute 13:30). •   The interested
Likewise, he provided for payment purposes the twenty digits of his current account in order to
direct debit receipts, identifying themselves as C.C.C. (minute 14:30 to 15:10) •
Finally, the conclusion of the contract was recorded, informing the interested party about
of the consultation of credit information systems (minute 16:45), indicating that the
contracting is carried out "today, July 24, 2019 at 11 hours and 32 minutes"
(minute 17:52), expressly referring to the National Identity Document
of the applicant (minute 18:08), indicating the place of the supply point and its
CUPS (minute 18:25) and stating the conditions of the contract.
Likewise, the telephone number of the new owner of the contract and the account
direct debit current of the service (minute 20:50), confirmed by the interested party. 7.
As a consequence of said conversation, he was referred to D. B.B.B. copy of the contract
held on the same date, without there having been the
non-payment of any invoice. For this purpose, documents number six are attached,
seven, and eight copies of the service invoices corresponding to the year 2021, in the
which includes the current account number of the new holder of the contract. Likewise, it
attached as document number nine, proof that it does not exist on the date of
issuance of this writing any debt pending payment by the subscriber, having
All invoices have been paid by the new contract holder.

Likewise, as a consequence of the request mentioned in point 6 above,
CURENERGIA sent to D. B.B.B., at the address that it provided, a copy of the
unpaid invoices, stating in their content the new
address, as the new owner has assumed the payment of pending debts, in his
condition of effective user of energy with just title, which effectively
satisfied.

The change of delivery address of the invoice occurred when assuming the payment of the

same D. B.B.B., on July 24, 2019

It is unequivocally established that the claimant terminated his contract with my principal
on July 19, 2019, not having proceeded, however, to the payment of the
supply made by CURENERGIA and that can be deduced from the invoices provided
also to the procedure by my client. To this end, it should be emphasized that
As can be verified from the aforementioned invoices, the supply was provided
up to said date. This means that from the moment the
low in the contract, requested by the Claimant to my represented, and as evident
As a result of said resolution, the referral to the interested party of
any information or documentation referring to a contract already concluded on the date on which
who appeared at the offices of CURENERGIA.

The owner of the home, in his capacity as an effective user of energy with fair
title, and given the coincidence in the surnames, probably the claimant's brother,
assumed the realization of the aforementioned payments contracting again with my
represented the electrical supply of the house on July 24, 2019, is
that is, after the date of cancellation of the contract, as it could not be of another

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

mode, and also after the issuance and dispatch of the last of the invoices
dissatisfied and whose payment was assumed by the new holder.

As a result of the assumption of said payment, two duplicates were issued
of the invoices, which were sent to the address that the owner of the house, who
had assumed his payment, he provided during the telephone conversation with a
representative of Curenergia and that has also been provided along with this
written. In this way, the treatment of the data of the address of the new owner brings
also its cause of the existence of a contractual relationship with the new owner,
given that it assumed, as has been reiterated, the payment of the invoices, having as its only
purpose of being able to provide the payer with proof of satisfied service.

For this reason, in the invoices requested by the claimant one month after
having requested cancellation in the contract, the address of the person who
had actually proceeded to the payment and not that of the complainant, who resolved the
contract and did not face the same.

It must be made clear that at the time of conclusion of the contract, the
new holder provided all the data necessary to carry out the contract,
including the information referring to your National Identity Document, as well as the
direct debit account of the receipts in which it appears as the owner and in which the
paid for the service without any problem such as
as a result of an alleged impersonation of the identity of the new owner or the
claimant.

In this way, there has been no impersonation in the present case, but a
processing of personal data perfectly lawful and always protected by the
existence of a contractual relationship and the fact that unpaid invoices
by the Claimant were finally paid by the new holder of the contract, holder
of the dwelling of which he was a tenant.

FIFTH: On April 13, 2021, the respondent was notified of the opening of the
testing period, considering all the previous actions incorporated, as well as
as the documents provided by the claimed entity.

PROVEN FACTS

1º On November 15, 2019, the claimant states that he has been
supplanted his identity because he has stopped receiving the two
last invoices issued by the claimed party, due to the fact that the
postal address indicating on them the address of his brother.

2nd It is established that the claimant failed to satisfy two invoices to the claimed one,
corresponding to the period from June 4 to July 4, 2019 and
from the date prior to July 19 of the same year. The said invoices were
issued in the name of the claimant and sent to the supply address.

On July 19, 2019, the claimant requested the termination of the contract of the

electrical supply.

3º There is a recording accrediting that on July 23, 2019, whoever
identified as D.B.B.B. contacted the claimed party and claimed to be the owner
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

of the farm in which the claimant resided, and went to the claimed one assuming the payment
pending invoices and also requested registration in the supply contract for the
home located at ***ADDRESS.1.

4th It is verified that the new holder of the contract made the payment of the two
pending invoices, requesting that copies of the
receipts pending payment, in order to prove your effective payment.

5º There is a recording of the contract, referring to the DNI, with
indication of the place of the supply point and its CUPS and recording the
contract conditions. Likewise, the telephone number of the new holder is reiterated.
of the contract and the direct debit account of the service, confirmed by the
interested.

 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Law 39/2015, of Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(LPACAP) establishes in its article 89.1 that "the termination of the
procedure, with filing of the actions, without the need to formulate
of the proposed resolution, when in the instruction of the procedure it is stated
I declare that any of the following circumstances exist:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction”.

III

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of Article 6
of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the assumptions in which
that the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the case at hand, after a detailed study of the
documents in the present proceeding, and the allegations of the
claimed, we must state that the processing of personal data of the
claimant, materialized in the sending to the new holder of the two invoices whose payment
had assumed and referred to the contract previously signed with the claimed party,
finds its basis of legitimation in art. 6.1 b) of the RGPD insofar as they were
necessary for the execution of the electricity supply contract to be signed by the
new holder of said contract given the impossibility of contracting if there was
debt associated with the point of supply, as in the present case.

Apart from the legitimacy for the aforementioned treatment, it should be noted that
the personal data provided to the new owner of the home's electricity supply
were known to him given his status as a family member of the claimant and owner of the property.
dwelling where the energy service was installed in which the non-payments occurred.

Therefore, the file of this sanctioning procedure proceeds.

Having seen the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE sanctioning procedure PS/00207/2020, instructed to
CURENERGIA COMERCIALIZADOR DE LAST RESOURCE S.A., with NIF
A95554630, for having proven that he used reasonable diligence.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution CURENERGIA COMERCIALIZADOR
DE LAST RESOURCE S.A., with NIF A95554630.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

