Opinion 28/2022 on the Europrivacy criteria of certification

regarding their approval by the Board as European Data

Protection Seal pursuant to Article 42.5 (GDPR)

Adopted on 10 October 2022

Adopted

1

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(2) and Article 42 of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the European Economic Area (hereinafter “EEA”) Agreement and in particular to
Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as  amended  by  the  Decision  of  the  EEA  joint  Committee  No
154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Articles 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure.

(1) Member States, supervisory authorities, the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the EDPB
or  the  Board”)  and  the  European  Commission  shall  encourage,  in  particular  at  Union  level,  the
establishment of data protection certification mechanisms(hereinafter “certification mechanisms”)
and of data protection seals and marks, for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with the GDPR
of processing operations by controllers and processors, taking into account the specific needs of micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises.2 In addition, the establishment of certification mechanisms can
enhance  transparency  and  allow  data  subjects  to  assess  the  level  of  data  protection  of  relevant
products and services.3
The criteria of certification form an integral part of a certification mechanism. Consequently, the GDPR
requires  the  approval  of the criteria  of  a  national  certification  mechanism  by  the  competent
supervisory authority (Articles 42(5) and 43(2)(b) of the GDPR), or in the case of a European Data
Protection Seal, by the EDPB (Articles 42(5) and 70(1)(o) of the GDPR).

(2)

(4)

(3) When a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to propose the approval by the EDPB of a
European data protection seal pursuant to article 42(5) of the GDPR, the SA should state the intention
of the scheme owner to offer the certification mechanism in all Member States. In this case, the main
role  of  the  EDPB  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR,  through  the  consistency
mechanism referred to in Articles 63, 64 and 65 of the GDPR. In this framework, according to Article
64(2) of the GDPR, the EDPB is approving the criteria of certification.
This Opinion aims to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR, including by the SAs, controllers
and processors in the light of the core elements, which certification mechanisms have to develop. In
particular, the EDPB assessment is carried out on the basis “Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and
identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the Regulation” (hereinafter
the  “Guidelines”)  and  their  Addendum  providing  “Guidance  on  certification  criteria  assessment”
(hereinafter the “Addendum”), for which the public consultation period expired on 26 May 2021.
Accordingly,  the  EDPB  acknowledges  that  each  certification  mechanism  should  be  addressed
individually and is without prejudice to the assessment of any other certification mechanism.

(5)

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this Opinion should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 Article 42(1) of the GDPR.
3 Recital 100 of the GDPR.

Adopted

2

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

Certification mechanisms should enable controllers and processors to demonstrate compliance with
the GDPR. Therefore, its criteria should properly reflect the requirements and principles concerning
the protection of personal data laid down in the GDPR and contribute to its consistent application.
At the same time, scheme owner should ensure the alignment and conformity of the certification
mechanism with any included or leveraged ISO standards and certification practices.
As a result, certifications should add value to controllers and processors by helping to implement
standardized and specified organizational and technical measures that demonstrably facilitate and
enhance  processing  operation  compliance to  the  GDPR,  taking  account  of  sector-specific
requirements.
The EDPB welcomes the efforts made by scheme owners to elaborate certification mechanisms, which
are practical and potentially cost-effective tools to ensure greater consistency with the GDPR and
foster the right to privacy and data protection of data subjects by increasing transparency.

(10) The EDPB recalls that certifications are voluntary accountability tools, and that the adherence to a
certification mechanism does not reduce the responsibility of controllers or processors for compliance
with the GDPR or prevent supervisory authorities from exercising their tasks and powers pursuant to
the GDPR and the relevant national laws.
In this Opinion, the EDPB addresses issues, such as the scope of the criteria, the applicability and
relevance of the criteria in all Member States.

(11)

(12) This Opinion focusses on the certification criteria. In case the EDPB requires high level information on
the evaluation methods in order to be able to thoroughly assess the auditability of the criteria in the
context of its Opinion thereof, the latter does not encompass any kind of approval of such evaluation
methods.

(13) The Opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted, pursuant to Article 64(2) of GDPR in conjunction with
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of
the subject matter. If the opinion of the EDPB concludes that the criteria cannot be approved at stake,
the SA may resubmit the criteria for approval when the concerns expressed in the initial EDPB Opinion
are addressed.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

In  accordance  with  Article  42(5)  of  the  GDPR  and  the  Guidelines, the Europrivacy v.60 criteria
(hereinafter  the “draft  certification  criteria”,  “certification  criteria”  or  “criteria”)  was  drafted  by
European Center for Certification and Privacy (hereinafter the “scheme owner”).

The Supervisory Authority of Luxemburg (hereinafter the “LU SA”) has submitted the Europrivacy
criteria of certification to the EDPB for approval pursuant to Article 64(2) GDPR on 28 September 2022.
The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 28 September 2022.

The Europrivacy certification mechanism is not a certification according to article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR
meant  for  international  transfers  of  personal  data  and  therefore  does  not  provide  appropriate
safeguards  within  the  framework  of transfers of  personal  data  to  third  countries  or  international

Adopted

3

organisations under the terms referred to in letter (f) of Article 46(2). Indeed, any transfer of personal
data to a third country or to an international organisation, shall take place only if the provisions of
Chapter V of the GDPR are respected.

2 ASSESSMENT

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

The  EDPB has  conducted  its  assessment of  the  criteria  of  certification for  their  approval  under
Articles 42(5) of the GDPR in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 2 to the Guidelines (hereinafter
“Annex”) and its Addendum.

The EDPB  notes  that  the  implementing  guidance  and  suggested  means  of  verification  of  the
certification mechanism provided by the scheme owner are not always consistent throughout the
catalogue  of  criteria. For  instance, section  T.2.3.2 requires that rules,  policies,  procedures  or
mechanisms are in  place  to  detect  and  report  intrusions  (e.g.  an  intrusion  detection  system  that
monitors network traffic for suspicious activity and alerts when such activity is discovered), whereas
the  suggested  means  of  verification  refer  to inspection  and penetration  test (required  in  section
T.2.3.1). Although  such  inconsistencies  do  not  fall  under  the  scope  of  its  assessment,  the  EDPB
underlines that they may be a barrier to the accreditation of the certification body, unless rectified by
the scheme owner.

2.1 Scope of the certification mechanism and Target of Evaluation (ToE)
The Europrivacy certification mechanism is a general scheme in that it targets a large range of different
processing operations performed by controllers and processors from various sectors of activity. The
main criteria of this certification mechanism are composed of the “Core criteria” and of the “TOMs
checks and controls” concerning technological and organisational measures set in place to secure the
processed personal data. A set of the “TOMs checks and controls” criteria are only applicable if the
Target of Evaluation (hereinafter “ToE”) processes special categories of data, criminal offense related
data, or personal data of a child.

Additionally, the criteria also include “Complementary contextual checks and controls” that aim to
ensure that the data processing involved in the ToE comply with domain-specific and technology-
specific  requirements. An  informative  matrix provided  by  the  scheme  owner describes  to  which
categories of  data  processing operations, each set of  the “Complementary  contextual  checks  and
controls” criteria apply.

The  EDPB  welcomes general schemes that  include specific  criteria  so  to make  them scalable and
applicable to specific processing operations or sector of activity. However, the EDPB also wishes to
clarify that in the context of a general scheme, the completeness of the criteria relating to specific
processing operations is not required and thus was not assessed in the context of this Opinion. In
addition, the EDPB recalls that when it publishes documents related to specific processing activities,
such documents shall be taken into account by the scheme owner and the accredited certification
bodies.

The criteria applicable to the specification of the ToE are defined in the requirements available in
A.2.1.1.  The  specific  rules  applicable  to  the  process  to  be  followed  by  the  applicant  and  by  the
certification body in order to define the ToE are specified by the Europrivacy scheme (10.2 - Pre-
certification Activities).

Adopted

4

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

The Board notes in the documentation related to the scope of the certification mechanism provided
by  LU  SA  that  the  Europrivacy  scheme  applies  to controllers  and  processors established  in  the
European  Union (EU) or  in the  European  Economic  Area (EEA).  The  applicability  of the criteria is
defined depending on the role and responsibilities of the applicant

The Board notes that a data controller can submit to the Europrivacy certification process a ToE which
is subject to joint-controllership (criteria A.2.7.1). In case the ToE is subject to joint-controllership, the
Board wishes to underline that the the accredited certification body will have to carefully conduct the
application process to ensure that the ToE is meaningful and that the applicant is fully responsible for
the compliance of the ToE with all obligations under the GDPR that the certification mechanism aims
at demonstrating. As a consequence, the arrangement concluded between the applicant and the other
joint controllers involved in the ToE with regards to their respective responsibilities for compliance
with the  obligations  under  the  GDPR4 might might – depending  on  the  context  of  the  processing
activities of the ToE - prevent the applicant to fulfil the criteria of certification.

The Board notes that the data processing of genetic data is excluded from the scope of the Europrivacy
certification mechanism. As a consequence, the assessment of the criteria conducted by the Board
does not cover the suitability of the criteria for ToE that would include such data processing.

2.2 Processing operations

The  criteria  address  the  relevant  components  of  the  processing  operations  (data,  systems,  and
processing) with respect to the general scope of the certification mechanism. In particular, the criteria
allow identifying special categories of data as defined in Article 9 of the GDPR (section G.2 of the
criteria - Special Data Processing).

2.3 Lawfulness of processing

The  criteria require checking the  lawfulness of  the data  processing  for  each  individual  processing
operations in the ToE and require checking the requirements of a legal basis as defined in Article 6 of
the GDPR (section G.1 of the criteria - Lawfulness of Data Processing).

2.4 Principles of data processing

The criteria adequately address the data protection principles pursuant to Article 5 of the GDPR. In
particular, the criteria require the applicant to demonstrate that the personal data are adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed
(data minimisation).

2.5 General obligations of controllers and processors

16.

The criteria reflect the obligations of the controller pursuant to article 24 of the GDPR (G.4 - Data
Controller Responsibility) and require the evaluation of processor-controller contractual agreements

4 The determination of their respective responsibilities must in particular regard the exercise of data subjects’
rights and the duties to provide information. In addition to this, the distribution of responsibilities should cover
other  controller  obligations  such  as regarding  the  general  data  protection  principles,  legal  basis,  security
measures, data breach notification obligation, data protection impact assessments, the use of processors, third
country  transfers  and  contacts  with  data  subjects  and  supervisory  authorities (Guidelines  07/2020  on  the
concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR)

Adopted

5

in  accordance  with  Article  28  of  the  GDPR (section G.5 of  the  criteria - Data  Processors  or  sub
Processors).

17.

The criteria require all applicants to appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO) even in the case where
the applicant is not required to designate a DPO according to Article 37 of the GDPR. The criteria check
that  the  DPO  meet the  requirements under  Articles  37  to  39 (section G.9 of  the  criteria - Data
Protection Officer).

18.

The criteria check the content of the records of processing of activities in accordance with Article 30
of the GDPR (section G.5.3 of the criteria - Records of processing activities).

2.6 Rights of the data subjects

19.

20.

21.

The criteria adequately address data subject’s right to information in accordance with Chapter III of
the GDPR and require respective measures to be put in place. The criteria also require measures put
in place providing for the possibility to intervene in the processing operation in order to guarantee
data subjects’ rights and allow corrections, erasure or restrictions (section G.3 of the criteria - Rights
of the Data Subjects).

2.7 Risks for the rights and freedom

The  criteria  require  assessing the  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons of  the  data
processing involved in the ToE in accordance with Article 35 of the GDPR (section G.8 of the criteria -
Data Protection Impact Assessment).

2.8 Technical and organisational measures guaranteeing protection

The  criteria  require the  application  of technical  and  organisational  measures  providing  for
confidentiality,  integrity  and  availability  of  processing  operations.  The  criteria  also  require the
application  of technical  measures  to  implement data  protection  by  design  and  by  default in
accordance  with Article  25  and  Article  32  of  the  GDPR (section G.6 of  the  criteria - Security  of
Processing  and  Data  Protection  by  Design,  Section  T.1/T.2  of  the  criteria – Core Security
Requirements/Extended Security Requirements).

22.

The criteria require the application of measure to ensure that personal data breach notification duties
are carried out in due time and scope in accordance with Article 33 and 34 of the GDPR (section G.7
of the criteria - Management of Data Breaches).

23.

24.

2.9 Criteria for the purpose of demonstrating the existence of appropriate safeguards
for transfer of personal data

The  criteria  require  identifying all  personal  data  transfers  to  third  countries  and  to  international
organizations involved in the ToE and substantiating the choice made regarding the data transfer
mechanism providing for appropriate safeguards, pursuant to Chapter V of the GDPR (section G.10 of
the criteria - Transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations).

3. ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR A EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION SEAL

According to the Guidelines, the assessment shall include the question on “whether the criteria are
able to take into account Member State data protection laws or scenarios”. Section G.1.1.3 of the
criteria requires the applicant to provide such an assessment in a National Obligations Compliance
Assessment Report (NOCAR). The Board notes that such report shall include an assessment of the

Adopted

6

national obligations applicable to the ToE and will document the measures taken by the applicant to
comply with applicable rules and, possibly, ongoing corrective actions. The applicant shall not use the
key complementary national requirements list provided by the scheme owner for each country as an
exhaustive  list  of  national  obligations  relevant  for  the  ToE. The  indicative list  of minimal
complementary checks and controls requirement provided by the scheme owner are not criteria of
certification in the scope of this Opinion.

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

25.

26.

27.

By way of conclusion, the EDPB considers that the Europrivacy criteria of certification are consistent
with the GDPR and approves them pursuant to the task of the Board defined in article 70(1)(o) of the
GDPR, resulting in a common certification (European Data Protection Seal).

The EDPB will register the Europrivacy certification mechanism in the public register of certification
mechanisms and data protection seals and marks pursuant to Article 42(8).

FINAL REMARKS
This Opinion is addressed to the LU SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) of the
GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

Adopted

7

