1  
The implementation of the Plan for the Transition to a New Normality by the Ministry of Health and the anticipated return of tourism poses a challenge for both businesses and Public Administrations. In managing capacity restrictions or social distancing in public places, the emergence of new initiatives based on mobile applications is evident. This note provides recommendations for designing treatments based on such applications to comply with the established data protection regulations, ensuring that, in addition to representing real guarantees for the protection of citizens' health, they do not pose a risk to their rights and freedoms. These recommendations are aimed at current solutions but are also valid for guiding the design of future treatments.  
The AEPD Report “The Use of Technologies in the Fight Against COVID-19” analyzed some apps that emerged at the beginning of the pandemic, such as self-testing and appointment booking for tests, voluntary reporting of infections, contact tracing, and immunity passports. In this note, we will provide recommendations for treatments based on non-health-related apps, such as those for booking or controlling capacity in beaches, natural spaces, and other public places.  
Treatments aimed at controlling capacity and social distancing have led several entities to deploy their own solutions, opting for apps that sometimes combine space reservation with other functionalities, such as geolocation, access control with QR codes, registration of users' personal data, or features linked to social networks. Related to the use of apps, other means are being evaluated that utilize mobile phone signaling, such as the registration of data from wifi or bluetooth signals.  
Fourteen Misconceptions Regarding Biometrics  
Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
in collaboration with Carmela Troncoso, Professor at École Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne  
June 2020  
www.aepd.es  
In this type of app, the AEPD considers that, to achieve the intended purpose, and in application of the principle of minimization, it is necessary to justify the need to identify individuals.  
In this context, the AEPD establishes the following non-exhaustive list of recommendations for those responsible who are evaluating the implementation of any of the aforementioned solutions in their treatments:
2  
1.  
The purpose must be clearly defined and must be limited to the management of social distancing measures such as capacity control or distance control.  
2.  
The treatments proposed must be truly effective in relation to the purpose and cannot generate false expectations of security in accordance with the principle of loyalty of the treatment.  
3.  
The implementation of treatments based on apps must be grounded in an analysis of necessity and proportionality that determines both the use of the app and the minimum set of data necessary to achieve the intended purposes. In particular, the identity of the user or their tracking, including the use of unique identifiers of any kind or those derived from wifi or bluetooth signals, may only be processed if they are strictly necessary for the purpose of the app.  
4.  
Special categories of data, particularly health data, must not be processed beyond, where applicable, those strictly necessary to manage spaces reserved for persons with disabilities.  
5.  
The functionalities of the app must be exclusively those necessary for the specific purposes pursued, without mixing functionalities such as loyalty, advertising, or social networks. Personal data must not be processed for any other purpose than that related to the management of social distancing measures that justify the implementation of the app.  
6.  
The use of the app must be voluntary, based on the user's consent for the processing of personal data necessary for each of the functionalities pursued. The processing must be based on free, informed, and specific consent. The use of a particular app must not condition access to public spaces, and alternatives with the same degree of ease of use must be provided.  
7.  
The data controller must ensure compliance with the principles of the GDPR and LOPDGDD in all treatments carried out, including those related to the need for contracts or legal links that regulate such treatments when carried out by third parties and the appropriate security measures.  
8.  
In the case of public spaces, the data controller must be the Public Administration that holds the competence, which will be the one to decide the purposes and means of the treatment.  
9.  
The use of third-party tools or resources for the implementation of the treatment or the development of the app could involve the processing of personal data for advertising purposes, usage analysis, or others, particularly the processing of unique identifiers and geolocation data that imply tracking individuals or profiling. Therefore, those that offer sufficient guarantees to prevent such processing must be used.  
10.  
The personal data processed must not be stored beyond the time necessary to fulfill the intended purposes and, in any case, must be deleted when these purposes cease, except for those data that must be retained due to legal obligation.  
11.  
As far as possible, common solutions should be adopted for access to different public spaces in the same environment (city, province, region), so as to avoid exposing users to the potential risks of multiple apps.  
12.  
The processing of personal data of minors under 14 years of age by this type of app must be consented to by their parents or guardians.  
Finally, it is advisable to follow the recommendations prepared by the AEPD to apply the principles of proactive responsibility that can be found on the Innovation and Technology microsite, specifically those for the development of applications on mobile devices:  
Technical note: The duty to inform and other measures of proactive responsibility in mobile device apps  
Analysis of information flows in Android.  
Tools for compliance with proactive responsibility  
Recommendations for the deployment of mobile applications for access to open spaces  
www.aepd.es