

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of adoption of technical-organizational measures
Public university


The review was initiated on the basis of information from a received notification of a breach of personal data security. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations in the processing of personal data established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with a ransomware attack on a part of the university's computer network, on which the administration of dormitories and canteens operates university catering information system.

The inspection carried out revealed that although the inspected party took technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security corresponding to the given risk, it also introduced in its practice a high level of processing guarantees and minimization of the risks of negative impacts on rights
and freedoms of data subjects (e.g. the controlled person conducts training of responsible personnel in the field of personal data protection, updating records of processing activities, establishing rules for controlling access to personal data, logs), there was a successful ransomware attack on part of the computer network of the controlled person, on which it operates management of dormitories and canteens of the university catering information system.

When assessing the appropriate level of security, not all risks, in particular accidental or illegal destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of transmitted, stored or otherwise processed personal data, or unauthorized access to them, have been examined.

This resulted in a violation of Article 5 paragraph 1 letter on the part of the inspected party. f) and Article 32, paragraph 1, 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Taking into account the fact that the inspected person took measures to eliminate the deficiencies after the ransomware attack, the detected illegal situation was corrected. In connection with the above, therefore, the initiation of proceedings pursuant to ยง 60 of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. on the imposition of measures to eliminate the identified deficiencies is justified, because the purpose that could be achieved by conducting the offense procedure has already been achieved.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Education > Inspection of adoption of technical and organizational measuresView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



