 

 

 

 

    

 

     Athens, 4-11-2020

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION

    Prot. No.: G/EX/7273-2/04-11-2020

OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER

 

 

 

 

 

Decision of the President of the Authority no. 1/2020

(article 15 par. 8 of Law 4624/19 in conjunction with article 58 par. 2 f GDPR)

1. Because with the no. prot. G/EIS/7273/22.10.20 their complaint to

the Authority against the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs

complainants A, B, C, D, E and F, primary school teachers and

secondary education, public school servants and some

of these, board members of recognized trade union bodies, complain

that the processing of personal data that will take place on 7.11.2020

in the context of electronic voting for the election of electors

representatives in the service councils of Primary teachers

and Secondary Education is non-legal and in accordance with the

provisions of the personal data protection legislation. With the

complaint and request the issuance of a temporary injunction in order

to suspend the conduct of the above electronic voting until

issuance of the Authority's relevant decision on the complaint, in view of

risks created by the relevant and ongoing processing

data breach in the Panhellenic School Network.

In particular, the complainants state that electronic voting

is unlawful, as the purpose can be achieved without processing them

of personal data, does not meet the requirements of the law

personal data protection, endangers the right

data protection, as well as fundamental rights and freedoms both

of the voters as well as the electors, does not ensure the requested

level of protection, is carried out after notification of a breach

data of the Panhellenic School Network (PSD) and distorts it as well

undermines a collective and fundamental democratic process which

it is an expression of popular sovereignty and the democratic principle.

For these reasons and in particular, as claimed above

their reported complaint to the Authority, in view of the high risk

caused to data subjects by its process

electronic voting, they ask the Authority to ban it

conducting electronic voting for the nomination of electors

representatives in the service councils of Primary teachers

and Secondary Education by issuing a temporary order.

Subsequently, with the attorney's document dated 30.10.2020

of complainants to the Authority, the urgency is highlighted

issuance of the temporary injunction.

2. Because a necessary condition for the issuance of a temporary injunction is

the strong probability that the intended processing will cause

significant risk to the personal data of the affected subjects,

for the prevention of which prohibition or restriction is necessary

of, a fact which does not occur in the present case of conduct

of electronic voting. After all, the collection and processing of

personal data of data subjects (voters and

of voters) is also carried out with a non-voting procedure

automated. Furthermore, it does not follow that with her method

of electronic voting may be irreparably harmed

from the rights of the data subjects, such as for example

if there is a blow to the confidentiality of the natural vote

persons. And this as the method used seems to

follows international standards for electronic voting while it has

used without known problems in other cases as well (e.g.

elections of rectory authorities). Besides, the use of electronic systems

voting cannot be considered, in advance, as opposed to

legislation for the protection of personal data, such as

after all, it follows from the Recommendation CM/Rec(2017)5 of its Council

of Europe on electronic voting standards1 and related

guidelines of the French supervisory authority (CNIL)2.

3. Because the mentioned in the complaint as an ongoing incident

breach of personal data is not an incident

violation within the meaning of article 4 par. 12 of the GDPR. The relative

announcement of the PSD is a preventive information measure and

awareness of its users. Sending emails

mails which contain in their body old familiar messages

trafficked in user mail, does not assume

breach of the PSD e-mail servers, as well

it is very likely that third-party servers have been compromised (e.g.

message recipients) or individual user accounts. after all,

Recently several such incidents have appeared3 which do not

are associated with the PSD.

4. Because, further, in view of the above observations, even if

an impact assessment study is required, its non-action to date,

it is not a reason to prohibit the processing, as it is a violation thereof

of article 35 of the GDPR does not imply a violation of the governing principles

the processing of personal data, nor leads as such

to an irreparable injury to any of the rights of their subjects

data.

 

5. Because, in view of the above, and regardless of the fact that the

data processed in the context of voting for

election of elected representatives to the Teachers' Service Councils,

                                                 

1 https://search.coe.int/cm/Pages/result_details.aspx?ObjectID=0900001680726f6f

2 https://www.cnil.fr/fr/securite-des-systemes-de-vote-par-internet-la-cnil-actualise-sa-
recommendation-de-2010

3 See and announcement of the Electronic Crime Prosecution Directorate
http://www.astynomia.gr/index.php?option=ozo_content&lang=%27..%27&perform=view&id=98203
&Itemid=2524&lang=

they are not sensitive data, as they falsely claim

complainants, since the process of nominating elected representatives in

service councils is not a trade union election process

body, given that, according to Chapter B' of P.D/tos1/2003, the

responsibilities of these councils concern official matters

staff situation, however, there is no threat

risk for the personal data of affected subjects, which will

was a reason for issuing a temporary injunction.

 

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

THE BEGINNING

 

Denies the request for a temporary injunction.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president

                                                                         Konstantinos Menudakos

 

 

 

 

 

 

