Deliberation HAB-2022-005 of September 8, 2022National Commission for Computing and LibertiesNature of the deliberation: Members and agentsLegal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Friday September 16, 2022NOR: CNIL2225950XDeliberation No. HAB-2022-005 of 8 September 2022 authorizing agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to carry out verification missionsThe National Commission for Computing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data;
Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3;
Having regard to law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 as amended relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2.g), 10, 11 and 19;
On the proposal of Mrs. Sophie LAMBREMON, Deputy Vice-President, and the report of Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, Government Commissioner, Decides: Article 1: The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties (CNIL) hereinafter designated are authorised, by reason of their functions, to carry out the inspections and checks mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code:Mr. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Ahlam AMMI, violation and cross-functional project manager in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Amandine ANDRETTO, legal expert in the support department and data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Ms. Tess d'ARMAGNAC, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Audrey BACQUIÉ, in charge of the registry in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle BARBÉ, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Siré BARRY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Jean BAUDRILLARD, Deputy Head of the Public Relations Department in the Public Relations and Research Department;
Ms Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms Nacéra BEKHAT, Head of the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department;
Ms. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Justine BERTAUD DU CHAZAUD, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Martin BIÉRI, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Thomas BIZET, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mrs. Nathalie BOHBOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Cécile BOSSER, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Mrs Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools for the compliance tools department at the Compliance Department;
Mrs. Soumia BOUASSAM, lawyer in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, lead health engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mrs. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, lawyer in the support department and data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs Flora BRAC DE LA PERRIERE, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms Justine BRAIVE, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Céline BRÉZILLON, Deputy Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Émilie BRUNET, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Mrs. Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Sarah BULLY, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marjolaine CASSAR, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Madeleine CAZETTES DE SAINT LÉGER, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Mehdi CHAÏB, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Lucie CHARTRAIN, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Ms Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mr. Antoine COURMONT, digital sociologist in the digital innovation laboratory at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Erika COURSAUX, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Mr. Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research;
Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, Chief Compliance Officer;
Ms Manon de FALLOIS, Deputy Head of the Health Department in the Compliance Department;
Mrs. Marion de GASQUET, Deputy Head of the Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities Department in the Compliance Department;
Ms. Alice de LA MURE, legal expert in the support department and data protection delegates in the data protection department of the compliance department;
Ms Justine DEBOTÉ, Clerk in charge of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle DELERUE, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Grégoire DELETTE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs Amélie DELEUZE, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr Éric DELISLE, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Director of Public Relations and Research;
Ms. Maryange DICHI, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Sadio DIOUMASSY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien DROCHON, auditor of information systems referent to the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Antoine DROIN, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs Gabrielle DU BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marie DUBOYS FRESNEY, Deputy Head of the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department;
Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, Deputy Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Louis DUTHEILLET DE LAMOTHE, Secretary General;
Ms Jeanne DUVAL-TADEUSZ, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance department;
Mrs. Viktorija ELENSKI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Anne FONTANILLE, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects to the secretary general;
Mr. Thomas FRESSIN, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Aurore GAIGNON, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Antoine GAUME, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Rodolphe GÉNISSEL, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Zelda GÉRARD, lawyer in the compliance tools department at the compliance department;
Mr. Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the support department and data protection delegates to data protection in the compliance department;
Mrs Laurène GOIRAND, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Yoann GONTHIER LE GUEN, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Jérôme GORIN, research and development engineer at the service of the digital innovation laboratory at the technology and innovation department;
Ms Sarah GUILLOU, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, Head of the Health Department in the Compliance Department;
Mrs Sandra GREBER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Ms Estelle HARY, designer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Paul HÉBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance;
Ms Clarisse HESLAUT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Armand HESLOT, head of the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Ms Marie HEUZÉ, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Ms Agathe HUBERT, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Sonia HUDELA, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Karin KIEFER, Director of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Anton KISYELYOV, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Jérémie KOUZMINE, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marine LACHEVER, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mrs Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Victor LARGER, lawyer in the control department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Nina LE BONNIEC, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities;
Mr. Alexis LEAUTIER, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Ms. Delphine LEGOHÉREL, Deputy Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle MANTZ, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Delphine MARGULIS, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Tony MARTIN, Deputy Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Clothilde MAULIN, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Oriane MAURICE, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marjorie MENAPACE, Deputy Head of the Support Service for Data Protection Officers in the Compliance Department;
Ms Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thomas MOREAU, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Mr. Mathias MOULIN, Deputy Secretary General;
Ms Sophie NERBONNE, director in charge of economic co-regulation;
Ms Ingrid NKOUENJIN, Head of the Compliance Tools Department at the Compliance Department;
Ms. Rabia OUADDAH, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marie PACALET, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, Director of Technologies and Innovation;
Mrs. Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benoît PELLAN, responsible for the development of compliance tools at the Compliance Department;
Ms Lorraine PERRONNE, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities;
Mr. Antoine PLANCHOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Ms. Laetitia RACINE, Deputy Head of Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Florence RAYNAL, Head of the European and International Affairs Department;
Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Antoine RICART, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Albane RICHET, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Ismini RIGOPOULOU, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Valentin ROGER, Head of Information Systems Security at the General Secretariat;
Ms Anne-Charlotte ROUGELIN, Legal Advisor in the Public Relations Department in the Public Relations and Research Department;
Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Stéphanie SAULNIER, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Benoit SEGUIN, Head of Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Lola TAIEB, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Ahlem TAMOUZA, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mrs. Jamila TAZI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Yunita TCHOUN KONG SAM, in charge of developing tools for the compliance tools department at the Compliance Department;
Mr. Vincent TOUBIANA, head of the digital innovation laboratory department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Félicien VALLET, Deputy Head of the Technological Expertise Department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Anne VIDAL, lawyer in the support department and data protection delegates data protection in the compliance department;
Ms Albine VINCENT, head of the support department and data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Christophe VIVENT, cybersecurity engineer specializing in incident handling in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Ms Clémentine VOISARD, project manager in the public relations department.Article 2: Deliberation No. HAB-2022-003 of May 23, 2022 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions is repealed.Article 3: The clearances mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic.
The president,
M. L. Denis