



Media education in Hamburg

Photo by johnschno on Unsplash





Media education in Hamburg: advance the promotion of digital competence!
Media education in Hamburg: advance the promotion of digital competence!

09/22/2020


The Corona crisis has shown once again how important media competence is in today's society. Pupils, but also teachers, had to switch to exclusively digital lessons from one day to the next. What many had previously suspected came true: insufficient digital equipment, a lack of digital skills, the dependence on offers that are questionable in terms of data protection law and a need for up-to-date pedagogical concepts.
At the beginning of the Corona crisis, many companies and educational institutions relied on convenient - often commercial - software products that were installed and ready to use with just a few clicks. It must not be the goal to open up any number of communication channels and alternatives for school lessons, where those affected often pay with their data. Decisions about the use of school communication channels for digital learning must always keep an eye on the protection of the rights and freedoms of those affected - pupils, but also teachers. It is now necessary to critically review digital educational offers and learning platforms and to create new offers. The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HmbBfDI) has already got involved on various levels on this topic.
It is also important that digital educational media do not (again) disappear from the classroom after the Corona crisis. Media and data protection skills must be developed in order to be able to speak critically about excesses of the digital world such as manipulation, fake news and hate speech in the school context. Once again, the education sector is called upon to react to new social challenges in order to prepare schoolchildren for their digitized future.
For more than a year, the HmbBfDI has been increasing its efforts to inform and educate the public about the risks associated with the processing of personal data. To this end, he works successfully with various Hamburg institutions and initiatives. At the same time, he offers his own workshops and has built up a wide range of information.
In addition to schools, open child and youth work and adult education should also deal more intensively with the topic of digital skills. Hamburg already offers a broad portfolio of (partly voluntary) offers. It is important that the city of Hamburg promotes these initiatives in a targeted manner so that everyone in Hamburg can benefit from the knowledge. At the same time, it is important to increase cooperation and create synergies. Because only together can such a digital pedagogical renewal really succeed.
In order to deal with and deal with the framework conditions, the construction sites and the growing demands of media education, a specialist day will take place on September 25th, in which the HmbBfDI will also be involved. The Mediennetz Hamburg e.V. invites you to this specialist day with the support of the JIZ - Youth Information Center Hamburg (BSB). Interested parties can register and join the discussion at baustelle-medienbildung.de until September 24th.
Johannes Caspar, Hamburg's representative for data protection and freedom of information: "Data protection competence is indispensable in our day and age. It is the cement for a democratically open society.”


press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "naeykqpdcovjmizf");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "omqlkubrjxgsitfc");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp







