Case number: NAIH / 2019/5112/15.

Subject: Partial decision granting the application

DECISION
Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter: the Authority) [….]
hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”) against [….] (hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”)
take the following decision in the data protection authority procedure:
1. The Authority shall be the Applicant
grant his application in part and
finds that the Applicant has violated the Applicant 's right of access because
-

within one month of receipt of the request did not provide information and access
complied with the request after the deadline, and
did not guarantee the issue of the first copy free of charge during subsequent performance, and
set a fee.

2. The Authority shall ex officio oblige the Applicant to comply with the regulations on internal reimbursement fees and the
bring its data management practices into line with the General Data Protection Regulation.
3. The Authority shall send copies of the Applicant's application in certified form
relevant part
rejects.
The measures provided for in point 2 shall be taken by the Debtor from the date of taking the measure
must provide written confirmation, together with the supporting evidence, within
Towards an authority. In the event of non-compliance, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the action brought before the Metropolitan Court in an administrative action
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. The request for a hearing must be indicated in the application.
For those who do not benefit from full personal exemption, the judicial review process
its fee is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material fees. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory.

2

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. The Applicant submitted an application to the Authority on 18 June 2019, in which he submitted
that he had an accident in December 2015 and received hospital treatment. In 2016, he filed a complaint
in connection with hospital care.
In letters dated 2 April, 8 May and 22 May 2019 from the Applicant
in 2016, following an inquiry into a complaint against the institution
documents generated in connection with this procedure and the State Public Health and Medical Officer
Examination material conducted by the National Office of the Chief Medical Officer of the Service (hereinafter: ÁNTSZ)
requested certified copies. The Applicant received the first letter of the Applicant on April 4.
received his second letter on 9 May and his third letter on 27 May.
In the reply letter dated 17 May 2019 to the Applicant, the Applicant will pay HUF 3,937
established the reimbursement fee in the amount of the amount to be charged by the Applicant on 23 May
transferred to your bank account number. The Applicant did not receive the requested documents and therefore with the Applicant
requested proceedings from the Authority.
The Applicant attached to his application all the applications written to the Applicant, their receipt
certified return receipts and copies of the bank order for the transfer of the procedural costs, and
the Requested JOG31-31-3 / 2019. registered on 17 May 2019.
I.2. Due to the deficiencies in the content of the application, the Authority called on the Applicant to rectify the deficiencies. THE
The applicant complied with this by letter received by the Authority on 2 July 2019.
In its reply to the Authority 's request for rectification, the Applicant stated that
Copies of documents generated during the investigation of the applicant and requested to be sent in 2019.
received on 27 June, however, the documents were authenticated despite a strong request from the Applicant
not happened. The Applicant further complained that the Applicant had set a fee for issuing the copy, despite the fact that the Applicant had not previously requested a copy,
and that he was late in complying with his request from the time he sent his first letter
It took place 84 days later.
In view of the above, the Applicant finds a violation of the right of access by the Authority
he asked.
I.3. The Authority requested information on the matter from the Applicant to clarify the facts
in order to.
In its reply of 23 July 2019, the Applicant informed the Authority that
the Applicant after the completion of the internal investigation or upon leaving the institution
received the documentation due free of charge. In his view, neither the GDPR nor that
1997 on the processing and protection of human health and related personal data
year XLVII. (hereinafter: Eüak.), has already been originally received
documentation for re-issuance deadline, nevertheless the Applicant for Human Resources
tried to comply with the Applicant's request, taking into account its workload. Given that
it is the material of internal investigations in previous years, so he retrieved the material from the archives. The
After reviewing the documents retrieved, the Commission informed the Commission by letter dated 17 May 2019
Applicant to the Eüak. § (3) and on the Applicant's website
can be found in the reimbursement fee policy and the recommendation of the maintaining State Health Care Center

3

established a total reimbursement fee of HUF 3,937 gross. The Applicant is May 2019
The Applicant paid the reimbursement fee on the 23rd day of the year, therefore the Applicant
The applicant sent copies of two of the documents in its possession.
I.4. The Authority requested that the Applicant be informed that it had requested all the documents in its letters
in the original or a copy, on departure from the hospital before the applications are submitted,
or after the completion of the internal investigation.
I.5. By letter received on 17 October 2019, the Applicant informed the Authority that he was leaving the Hospital
on leaving, he took an outpatient sheet and a piece of X-ray findings. The internal investigation and [… ..]
part of the materials of the procedure initiated by the patient's rights representative by the Applicant directly, by post
also received. However, the Applicant complained that one of the internal investigation materials was
any minutes drawn up in the course of the proceedings, if any, and the fact that the copies were not
me.
I.6. Following the Petitioner's complaint, the Complaints and Public Interest Notices
2013 CLXV. Act, the ÁNTSZ conducted an investigation. The Applicant access
submitted the application only to the Applicant. The Applicant shall provide a copy of the requested documents handled by him
sent it. The Applicant is a document created during the investigation conducted by ÁNTSZ
is entitled to contact the ÁNTSZ to request copies.
II. Applicable legal requirements
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the General Data Protection Regulation applies to personal data in part or
fully automated processing of personal data
which are part of a registration system,
or which are intended to be part of a registration system.
Under Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is unjustified
without delay, but in any case within one month of receipt of the request
inform the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. on the action taken in response to a request under Article. Need
In view of the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this time limit shall be extended by two additional periods
may be extended by one month. The extension of the deadline by the data controller shall be the reasons for the delay
within one month of receipt of the request. If
the person has submitted the application electronically, the information shall be made possible, if possible, electronically
unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
Under Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject has the right to:
receive feedback from the data controller on the processing of your personal data
is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, failing that
possible criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller

4

rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data
against its treatment;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information about the significance of such data processing and what it is for the data subject
with expected consequences.
Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides that the controller is
makes a copy of the personal data which are the subject of the processing available to the data subject, since
in this way, effective and complete access to personal data can be achieved.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) and (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
condemns the controller or processor, acting in his or her capacity to rectify data, if he or she is a data controller
has infringed the provisions of the Regulation or instructs the controller or the
the data processor to carry out its data processing operations, where appropriate in a specified manner and
comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
On the handling and protection of health and related personal data
1997 XLVII. Pursuant to Section 7 (3) of the Act, the general data protection decree for the data subject
All personal data subject to processing as defined in Article 15 (3)
a fee shall be paid for additional copies on the basis of the cost elements specified in a ministerial decree.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. law
(hereinafter: the Information Act), the task of the Authority is to provide personal data
and the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
monitoring and facilitating the enforcement of personal data within the European Union
facilitating the free movement of
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or binding European Union law
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
by alerting the controller or processor.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the general data protection decree is indicated therein
shall apply with the additions provided for in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2) (b), the Authority may order the decision of the data controller
disclosure of his identification data if it is in the public domain
in the context of the activities of that body.
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection was initiated upon request
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Act) shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Infotv. The Ákr.
Pursuant to Section 50 (5) (b), it does not count towards the administrative deadline - if it has a contingent effect
there is no place to make a decision - the duration of the client’s omission or delay.

5

III. Decisions of the Authority
In the investigation of the Complaint of the Applicant concerning his hospital treatment
infringement of his right of access to documents relating to him
he asked.
III.1. According to the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is subject to data processing
you must make a copy of your personal data available to the data subject, the right of access
sub-license is the right to make a copy available.
In the letters of the Applicant dated 2 April, 8 May and 22 May 2019 a
In 2016, an investigation procedure was initiated from the applicant after filing a complaint against the institution
and in connection with this procedure by the National Office of the Chief Medical Officer
requested certified copies of the test material.
The Applicant filed for the first time since the application of the General Data Protection Regulation in April 2019
Request for a copy of the documents containing his / her personal data dated 2 September 2019.
received it on April 4th. Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation a
the one-month deadline for reply expired on 4 May 2019. In comparison, the
Letter of 17 May 2019 from the applicant requesting reimbursement of the fee for copies of documents requested
after the expiry of the time limit for reply. The issuance of copies of the Requested - for reimbursement
After the payment of the fee by the Applicant, it was decided on 18 June 2019.
In view of the above, the Authority concluded that the Applicant had 30 days to contact the Applicant
did not ensure the exercise of its right of access, - as this deadline is an extension of the deadline
- in breach of Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
and Article 15 (1).
III.2. As a general rule, Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation is the right of access
the issue of the copy requested by the data subject shall be determined by the issue of the first copy
in the case of. The right to issue a copy is limited to Article 12 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
may be limited in accordance with the rules laid down in
In the course of the proceedings, the Applicant informed the Authority that “the fee for the issue of
charge in accordance with the GDPR Regulation for health and related personal
XLVII of 1997 on the processing and protection of personal data pursuant to Section 7 (3) of the Act
we have been liquidated. " Considering that the requested documents “have already been received by the Applicant once
originally, by law and internal fee in accordance with our policy for copying fee
we will charge. "
The Applicant's documents referred to by the Applicant in 2015 were hospitalized
after leaving the hospital, is not a data subject's right under Article 15 of the GDPR
but under the relevant health regulations
available to you.
The Applicant shall issue a copy in accordance with Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The first application for a regulation was sent to the
For the requested. By letter dated 17 May 2019, the applicant called for the payment of the fee
Applicant. The Applicant filed his application on April 2, 2019 for the first access
shall be deemed to be an application in respect of which the Applicant may not charge a fee.

6

The reference to the requested legislation is incorrect because it is a general data protection regulation
directly applicable and applicable in the legal systems of the Member States, accordingly the EAEC.
§ 7 (3), fulfilling Hungary's legal harmonization obligation since 26 April 2019
in accordance with Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the obligation to pay a fee for the issue of additional copies.
In view of the above, the Authority found that the Applicant had breached the general rule
Article 15 (3) of the Data Protection Regulation because it was not provided free of charge by the Applicant
documents containing personal data which are the subject of data processing
a copy.
III.3. The Authority shall send copies of the Applicant's application in certified form
Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation
Article 5 (3) and Article 5 (1) (d), not the principle of accuracy
the obligation to certify the true contents of the copy by means of a certificate may be inferred
to the data controller.
ARC. Legal consequences
The Authority grants the request of the Applicant and Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
condemns the Applicant on the basis of paragraph III.1. as set out in point
infringed Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Upon receipt of the request
did not grant the Applicant the right of access within one month of The Authority shall:
It does not oblige an applicant to comply with a request for access, given that its
84 days after its submission.
The Applicant also violated Article 15 § 3 by failing to do so
provided that the first copy was issued free of charge and set a fee.
The Authority shall act ex officio in accordance with Article 58 (2) (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
instructs the Applicant that the rules of the internal fee referred to by him are general
in line with the Data Protection Regulation.
V. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) defines its jurisdiction as a whole
country.
The decision is based on Ákr. 80.-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is based on Ákr. § 82
Shall become final upon its communication pursuant to paragraph 1. The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1),
or pursuant to Section 114 (1), there is an administrative action against the decision
redress.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. 2016 on Civil Procedure
CXXX. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Applicable pursuant to Section 26 (1) - Section 72 provides for legal representation in a case falling within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Kp. Section 39 (6)
unless otherwise provided by law, the date of filing of the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of an administrative act.

7

A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act), the customer is legal
representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the Kp. It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party initiating the proceedings.
If the Applicant does not duly prove the fulfillment of the required obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor
has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), the communication becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133
implementation, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
ordering authority. The Ákr. Section 134 of the Enforcement - if law, government decree
or in the case of a municipal authority, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the
carried out by a state tax authority. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) in the decision of the Authority
to perform a specific act, conduct or tolerate a specific act
to stop
aimed at
obligation
with regard to
the
decision
implementation
the
Authority.
Budapest, November 18, 2019

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

