1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00334/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
A.A.A., by virtue of a claim filed by D. G. DE LA POLICIA - COMISARIA
LEÓN JUDICIAL POLICE - NARCOTIC USE (hereinafter, the claimant) and in
based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the claimant has an entry dated
07/19/2018 at the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against the citizen AAA, (hereinafter, the claimed).

 
The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of hidden cameras"
facing public roads without just cause, controlling said space
for spurious reasons.

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Photographs Annex I) that

prove the presence of the devices.

SECOND: On 11/19/18, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, to proceed to argue about the characteristics of the system
denounced, appearing as "Notified" in the computer system of this
organism.

THIRD: On November 23, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of article 5 of the RGPD in connection with article 6 of the
mentioned normative text, infringement typified in article 83.2 of the RGPD and
classified as very serious, since the installed system is affecting the rights of
third parties and with a diversion of the purpose of the same to be oriented towards space
public.

FOURTH: The database of this body was consulted (03/15/19) and there is no
any allegation made by the accused party for the appropriate legal purposes.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 07/19/18, this body received a COMPLAINT from D.G.P.
(Judicial Narcotics Brigade-Leon Provincial Police Station) the following facts:

“installation of video-surveillance cameras to the outside with the purpose of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

control the entrances and exits of the same disproportionately” (folio nº 1).

Documentary evidence is attached (Annex I) with various photographs with the

Current location of video surveillance cameras.

SECOND: It is accredited that the person responsible for installing the system is
A.A.A., which is identified by the Police, with card number ***DNI.1.

THIRD: The installation of a video camera system has been accredited.
camouflaged surveillance, oriented towards public space, controlling the
entry/exit of the property.

FOURTH: There is no evidence that the system has any informative poster where
the person responsible for it is captured.

FIFTH: The cause/reason for the installation is not stated, although the evidence provided
point to a control of the entrance of the building, as a consequence of the presumed
illicit activities that take place there.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of entry date
07/19/18 through which he was transferred by the D.G.P (Judicial Brigade of
Narcotics-León Provincial Police Station) the following facts:

“installation of video-surveillance cameras to the outside with the purpose of

control the entrances and exits of the same disproportionately” (folio nº 1).

Documentary evidence is attached (Annex I) with various photographs with the

Current location of video surveillance cameras.

It should be remembered that individuals can install security cameras
video surveillance, but that they must be responsible that they conform to the
current regulations, avoiding the capture of public and/or private space from third parties
without justified cause.

The facts described suppose an affectation of the content of article 5

RGPD, which provides: “Personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”)”.

It should be remembered that cameras installed by individuals cannot obtain
images of public space, in any case the cameras must be oriented
inside your private home.

The presence of the cameras supposes an affectation to the right to privacy
of third parties, as well as a disproportionate measure in the intended purpose with
the same.

Individuals cannot install a video-surveillance system with guidance
towards public roads, in order to control such space.

This type of device can "process personal data", not
being one of the exceptions in the RGPD when it comes to having the
consent of those affected (article 6 RGPD).

III

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the
following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

b) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, in its
art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, the commission of an infraction is accredited
administrative, when verifying the Security Forces and Bodies, the existence of a
operational video-surveillance camera system, clearly oriented towards
public space without just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

Article 77 section 5 Law 39/2015 (October 1)-LPAC-provides the following:

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the legal requirements
corresponding the facts verified by those are gathered will prove of
unless proven otherwise”.

It is recorded in the computer system of this body that it has been notified on time and
forms the Start Agreement of PS/00334/2018, as certified by the Official Service of
Mail and Telegraphs.

Therefore, the respondent party is considered to have been widely
informed of their rights and obligations, voluntarily renouncing to carry out
any allegation.

Article 71 of the new Organic Law on Data Protection and Guarantees of

Digital Rights (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the following:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

The denounced party must proceed immediately to withdraw
of the camera(s) from your current location, so that you cannot capture
public space.

Documentary evidence must be sent of the action carried out (photograph with
date and time) that accredits such end, being warned that showing an attitude
passive to the requirements of this organism, can lead to the opening of
Penalty procedure for infraction of the content of article 72.1 letter m)
LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5).

A "new" complaint, confirming the presence of cameras abroad
of the property, will lead to the initiation of a new sanctioning procedure, in
where the fact that it has already been warned by this body will be taken into account,
this aspect that can affect a hypothetical graduation of the sanction
economy to impose.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to WARN Don A.A.A., for the continued infraction of the
content of article 5 in connection with article 6 of the RGPD, in the terms of the
article 58.2 RGPD letters b) and d), in such a way that you must within ONE MONTH to
counting from the day following the notification of this administrative act, prove
before this body that has proceeded to:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

 Remove the exterior camera(s), providing a photograph with the date and time that

certify such extreme before this organism.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the accused party A.A.A., and,
according to art. 77.2 of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant-- D. G. OF THE POLICE -
JUDICIAL POLICE STATION LEÓN – NARCOTIC AGENTS-- on the result
of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

