

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the exercise of the rights of the data subject
Company


The inspection was carried out on the basis of a complaint. The complainant (a former employee of the cooperative) requested the cooperative, with reference to Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, to provide consent for the release of all "GPS electronic logbooks" data for his former company cars from the period 2013-2015, including the data of primary , for the processor of this data. The inspection found that the inspected did not respond to the complainant's request at all. Pursuant to Article 12(1) and (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the controller should take appropriate measures to provide the complainant with information about the processing of personal data in a transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible manner, and the controller should also facilitate the exercise of his rights under Article 15 to 22. Based on the audit findings, it was not possible to agree with the evaluation of the audited person's request that he did not exercise the right according to Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 only because in the given case the complainant did not explicitly request access to personal data processed by the audited and only on Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 referred. At a minimum, the auditee had the obligation to respond to the complainant's request. At the same time, he testified with his statement that he knew what kind of request he had received. The inspection revealed a violation of Article 12, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The auditee filed objections against the findings stated in the audit protocol, which the President of the Office rejected in her decision in full. Additional information: The controller must always respond to each request of the data subject, regarding the exercise of the right according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Employers > Inspection of the exercise of data subject rightsView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



