 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

December 5, 2018

 
 
  First webinar on GDPR in schools successful
 
 
At the first webinar with the topic "Innovations due to the basic data protection
ordinance (DS-GVO) at schools” at the end of November, around 20 participants
including the working group of multimedia consultants for secondary schools in Ba-
connected to Württemberg. In the almost one-hour online event
the participants could get to know each other in a compact, free and up-to-date way with the speaker for
inform the area of the schools at the LfDI, Mr. Martin Dörr, and then
Ask questions.
 
What changes are schools facing as a result of the new legal framework?
A house? How do schools deal with the obligation to report data breaches and the
notification of the persons concerned? These were some of the themes of the
30 minute lecture.
Specialist Dörr provided interested parties with important and practice-relevant information
to these questions and went for another 30 minutes in the subsequent modern
ated chat on further questions such as the importance of the GDPR for
school data protection officer.
 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Stefan
Brink on this: "I am pleased that our first webinar in cooperation with the
desakademie in Esslingen met with such great interest. In addition to our class
In addition to technical seminars, webinars are a modern opportunity for further training
and information transfer. The advantages are obvious: webinars are not
location-based and not necessarily limited to participants. Any interested party
can therefore participate in a webinar from anywhere in the world. We plan

Koenigstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

 

You can find information on the collection of personal data from the person concerned in accordance with Article 13 DS-GVO on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

therefore - in addition to our numerous classic seminars - more in the future
offering webinars.”
 
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0. Further
Information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
The press release
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 

Internet available at http://www.baden-

in the

is

