1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00260/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 27, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against APARTAMENTOS ANTARES, S.L. with NIF B70564331
(hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the person responsible for the website
***URL.1 lacks an adequate privacy policy adapted to the RGPD, despite
that collects personal data through the reservation form, where it is required
name, phone and email.

SECOND: The present claim was transferred to the respondent on June 3, 2020,
requiring him to send to this Agency, within a period of one month, information
about the response given to the claimant for the facts denounced, as well as the
causes that have motivated the incidence and the measures adopted.

In response to the aforementioned request, the respondent states that they are very
aware of compliance with data protection regulations and the
application of the technical and organizational measures necessary for said
compliance, and that is why they are constantly reviewing and updating
the data processing procedures including the website and cookies, and
continue to comply with data protection regulations and avoid claims.

For this reason, they consider that these measures applied with the updating of the web are
enough to guarantee the good use of the data and to have the free consent
and unequivocal of the users at all times.

THIRD: On October 5, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“On the website https://apartamentosantares.com it is CORRECTLY indicated, in
the lower part of said website, that there is a LEGAL NOTICE and a POLICY OF
PRIVACY.

THE LEGAL NOTICE correctly complies with what is specified in the LSSI-CE and the
PRIVACY POLICY complies with the requirements of the L.O. 3/2018 from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Data Protection and Guarantees of Digital Rights and Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of Data Protection.

You may use side tabs to make reading easier, and do more
understandable the contents of the legal notice and the privacy policy, carry,
Contrary to what was intended, to a possible confusion at the time of analyzing
the PRIVACY POLICY.

Both the LEGAL NOTICE and the PRIVACY POLICY, upon opening them, in their
left column, appear, in different tabs, all the requirements that demand the
IT. 3/2018 on Data Protection and Guarantees of Digital Rights and the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on Data Protection.

On the other hand, the Agency points out that: "Notwithstanding, of the actions of
investigation carried out, it is verified that the form to be completed in the decision
data of the clients of the claimed, does not allow the claimant to choose between giving his
consent or not for the processing of your personal data, when these are
to be used for advertising purposes.

We state that we do not send advertising and that any possible reference to
promotional activities refers to the sending of the information requested by the same
interested or related to the contracted service (apartment reservation).

Both aspects considered correct in the LSSICE and exempt from the
need for consent according to section 2 of article 21 of said law.

Serve as proof that, in the content of the privacy policy, in the tab
"communications", the following information can be read: The RESPONSIBLE does not
carries out SPAM practices, therefore, in accordance with the LSSICE, it does not send emails
commercials by e-mail that have not been previously requested or authorized by the
User.

In addition, the letter of the Agency continues, that "On the other hand it is manifested in the
present claim that the web page of the claimed person lacks a policy of
adequate privacy adapted to the RGPD, in accordance with what is indicated in the
legal basis III, which would entail a violation of article 13 of the RGPD".

In this case WE OPPOSE since the website has a PRIVACY POLICY
that conforms to what is required by the L.O. 3/2018 of Data Protection and Guarantees of
Digital Rights and the RGPD.”

FIFTH: On November 6, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/03321/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On November 11, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that it be imposed on APARTAMENTOS ANTARES, S.L., with NIF
B70564331, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Through the investigative actions carried out by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection has found that the claimed has the following
privacy policy on the website ***URL.1:

“The purpose of this Website is to inform all Users of the
information and the sale of its products and/or services offered by EL
RESPONSIBLE, through a showcase displayed in the content of its pages.

For the purposes of the provisions of the Law, the CONTROLLER informs you that the data
information that you could voluntarily provide us through telephone calls
or while browsing our Website (at the time of registration or when
submit a form or make your query, comment or request or by sending us a
email), will become part of the information system of the
RESPONSIBLE. with the purpose of:

Manage your request and make reservations and send the confirmation of the
reservation made.

Also for carrying out commercial, administrative,
promotional and/or advertising, and respond to your requests for information, or to
any services provided or sponsored by the RESPONSIBLE, or
simply send you information that we consider of interest to you.

In this sense, the user CONSENT that the personal data provided through
of this website, or any other of the RESPONSIBLE, are incorporated into their
files and for sending commercial information via internet, SMS, fax or
any other medium.

Not providing the requested personal data or not accepting this privacy policy
data protection implies the impossibility of subscribing, registering or receiving
information about the products and services of the CONTROLLER.”

SECOND: It is therefore found that in the tab called "purpose of the
data collection”, where what is transcribed in the first fact is indicated, it is indicated that the
The use of the data provided will be to provide the service and inform and send them
advertising.

However, in said tab the user is not given the option to oppose the use of
their data, nor is the possibility of filing a claim with the
AEPD.

THIRD: The respondent states that it is possible that the use of side tabs
on the website give rise to confusion at the time of analyzing the POLICY OF
PRIVACY, but that both the LEGAL NOTICE and the PRIVACY POLICY, when

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

open them, in its left column, all the requirements appear, in different tabs
that require the L.O. 3/2018 on Data Protection and Rights Guarantees
Data and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on Data Protection.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment
of data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that has moved since May 25
of 2018 to article 5 of the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of Protection
of Personal Data.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

Article 5.1.e) of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);”

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:

  “1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the present case, it is stated that the website https://apartamentosantares.com/
lacks an adequate privacy policy, to which the defendant alleges in
response to the request made by this Agency that have proceeded to the
update of the web to guarantee the good use of the data and to have the
free and unequivocal consent of users at all times.

The respondent states that the use of the personal data object of this case
It is based on legitimate interest.

In this sense, the defendant will have acted in accordance with the law as long as
complies with the provisions of article 21.2 of the current Law 34/2002, of July 11, of
Services of the Information Society and Electronic Commerce (hereinafter
LSSI), "in any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of
Oppose the processing of your data for promotional purposes by means of a
simple and free procedure, both at the time of data collection and
in each of the commercial communications that you direct.
When the communications have been sent by email, said
means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
electronic or other valid electronic address where this right can be exercised,
sending communications that do not include said address is prohibited.”

On the other hand, in this claim, it is stated that the website of the
claimed lacks an adequate privacy policy adapted to the RGPD, of
in accordance with what is indicated in the basis of law III, which supposes a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD.

v

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

(...)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"

Article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered minor
has:

  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In this case, it is taken into account that the respondent collects personal data from the
users without providing them, prior to its collection, all the information in
matter of data protection provided for in article 13 of the aforementioned RGPD.

The exposed facts constitute, on the part of the defendant, an infraction to the
provided in article 13 of the RGPD.

This infraction is sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article 58.2.b)
of the RGPD, when collecting through said form basic data of the users and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the treatment of
personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD,
orders the claimed party, as data controller, the adequacy of the
information offered to users whose personal data is collected from them
to the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as the contribution of
means of evidence accrediting compliance with the requirements.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE APARTAMENTOS ANTARES, S.L., with NIF B70564331, for
an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

SECOND: TO REQUIRE the claimed party so that within one month they certify
before this body the fulfillment of:

 the adoption of the necessary measures to update its “Privacy Policy”.
Privacy” to current regulations on data protection
-Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (RGPD)-, adapting the information
offered to the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, and must
provide users, prior to the collection of data
of the same, all the information required in the aforementioned precept,
for which said company must take into account the provisions of article
21.2 of the LSSI regarding the requirement to establish a procedure
simple and free to oppose the processing of data from the moment
in which they are taken, as well as what is indicated in article 5 of the RGPD in what
regarding the purpose of the treatment and term of conservation of the data.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to APARTAMENTOS ANTARES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

