25.05.2021
Summary of ANSPDCP activity - the first four months of 2021

In the context of celebrating three years since the application of the RGPD, on May 25, 2021, we present a summary of the most significant aspects of the activity of the National Supervisory Authority carried out during the first four months of 2021.
Thus, in the first four months of 2021, the National Supervisory Authority received 1733 complaints, notifications and notifications regarding security incidents, based on which 288 investigations were opened.
As a result of the investigations, 15 fines were applied in a total amount of 110,545.7 lei.
In addition, 37 warnings were issued and 30 corrective actions were ordered.
In the first four months of 2021, regarding the activity of resolving complaints, the Supervisory Authority received 1600 complaints, on the basis of which 155 investigations were initiated.
Regarding the security incidents, during the period considered the data operators transmitted, both under the RGPD and Law no. 506/2004, 84 notifications, and the notifications regarding possible non-compliances with the provisions of the RGPD amounted to a number of 49.
As a result of the notifications received and the security breaches notified by the personal data controllers, during the first four months of 2021, 133 ex officio investigations were initiated at the level of the Supervisory Authority.
At the same time, 352 requests were submitted to our institution during the same period for various points of view on the interpretation and application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 and other relevant regulations by operators and their representatives in the field of public and private, by other entities as well as by individuals.
We also mention that we received 15 requests made under Law no. 544/2001, mainly from the media.
Regarding the activity of representation in court, in the first four months of 2021, the National Supervisory Authority managed a total of 98 cases pending before the courts at various stages of the proceedings. During the same period, 5 new lawsuits were received, which had as object the contestation of the minutes of contestation / sanctioning of the contraventions concluded by the National Supervisory Authority.
On the other hand, the National Supervisory Authority continued, in 2021, the communication activities aimed at informing the general public about the specific rules for the processing of personal data, in the context of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, especially in online environment in the context of the Covid pandemic 19.
In January, to celebrate the European Data Protection Day, the National Supervisory Authority organized two online events aimed at properly informing operators about the proper application of personal data protection rules, established by the General Data Protection Regulation.
Thus, on January 27, 2021, our institution organized an online conference dedicated to public authorities and institutions, entitled "Findings and recommendations for public sector operators", which will present and discuss specific practical issues of implementation of principles of personal data processing. The main central public authorities and institutions were mainly invited to this event.
Then, on January 28, 2021, he organized, online, the second conference dedicated to marking the European Day of Data Protection, with the theme "Findings and recommendations for private sector operators", with the participation of the most important associations and trade unions, chambers of commerce and media representatives.
The celebration of the same prestigious moment was also realized with the support of the national television station TVR and the Bucharest Transport Company, which broadcast the informative clip dedicated to the General Regulation on Data Protection (message of public interest), made by our institution.
In order to meet the objective of providing information to operators, data subjects and the general public, in February 2021, on the website of the National Supervisory Authority www.dataprotection.ro was posted a press release containing a summary of the more significant aspects of the activity of the National Supervisory Authority.
Also, in order to increase the awareness of individuals regarding the exercise of their rights, in April 2021, information on the conditions of transmission / admissibility of complaints was posted on the website of the National Supervisory Authority, according to Decision no. . 133/2018 on the approval of the Procedure for receiving and resolving complaints.
Throughout the first four months of 2021, our institution actively participated in several data protection meetings, organized by various public institutions or private entities, especially online.
On the other hand, I would like to point out that during this period telephone advice was provided to several individuals and operators in the public and private sector, on how to implement the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, being explicit and clarified a number measures that operators are required to implement in order to comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
Prompt and efficient information of individuals, but also of operators, was made during this period through the Authority's website, both in terms of the 16 press releases posted in the "News" section, and the information in the special section dedicated to the General Data Protection Regulation.
During the first four months of 2021, operators continued to declare data protection officers, registering 713 officials appointed by public and private sector operators to the National Supervisory Authority.
At the same time, in the first four months of 2021, the National Supervisory Authority participated in the EDPB Plenary Sessions, held online.
Also, in the context of cooperation with other supervisory authorities in order to ensure mutual assistance, about 37 requests were handled regarding the application and compliance with Regulation (EU) 679/2016.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.