GZ: DSB-D209.750/1551-DSB/2019 from April 15, 2019

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and e-mail addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc.,
as well as their initials and abbreviations can be used for pseudonymization reasons
be abbreviated and/or modified. Obvious spelling, grammar and
Punctuation errors have been corrected.]

 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on the application of Mag. Eduard A***

(Applicant) from ****stadt, dated March 24, 2019, to provide him with information on the following questions

To give:

1. Is there a question as to whether, in the case of a substantive indemnification of the complainant

in the appeal proceedings before the Administrative Court (VwGH) reimbursement of expenses

due, case law or what is the legal situation here?; and

2. Is there any case law from the VwGH or the Federal Administrative Court (BVwG),

what the facts are in the complaint proceedings because of a

violation of the obligation to provide information?

as follows:

- It is f e r s t e l t e l t that the requested information corresponds to the claim

is not subject to the provision of information and the information is therefore not given

will.

Legal bases: Section 1 (1) and (2) and Section 4 of the Information Obligation Act

(Information Obligation Act 1987), Federal Law Gazette No. 287/1987 as amended.

REASON

A. Procedure, facts relevant to the procedure and application:

1. The applicant is legally qualified and has already several times in his own case

Complaint to the data protection authority. In the context of the application, he is

involved party in the proceedings regarding the revision of B*** Bank AG against the

Decision of the Federal Administrative Court of December 10th, 2018, GZ: W2** 3*4*2*7-1/7E

which the data protection authority is also involved as an official party (responsible authority).

2. Evidence assessment: These findings are based on the data protection authority

on record (see, among other things, the administrative files Zlen. DSB-D122.746, DSB-D062.124,

DSB-D073.044 and DSB-D078.535) facts and data.

3. On March 18, 2019, the applicant addressed a personal application

Mag. Michael Suda, the clerk of the data protection authority from the above

Evidence cited procedures, addressed e-mail to this and presented

(formulated in a summarized manner) including the questions quoted in the saying.

4. On the same day he received the following (to the sending address Eduard.A***@***mail.de)

answered:

"Michael Suda

on

Mag. Eduard A*** (requester)

 

Delivery and read receipt requested.

Reply-to set to: dsb@dsb.gv.at (please only reply to this address)

 

Dear Mag. A***!

Firstly, I will relate your message quoted below, along with my response, to a
have thing as attachments to the act.

Second, please direct messages pertaining to a proceeding
Data protection authority, exclusively to the address of the authority:
dsb@dsb.gv.at. There is only this one permissible for e-mail traffic with the DSB
and published address. The editor of a
Administrative matter can change at any time, personal mailboxes will be in
Absence of the owner (vacation, illness, business trip, resignation
from the service of the DSB) only viewed and read in justified exceptional cases.

Third, I cannot give you personal advice on specific legal issues
to offer. Procedure is procedure, and between a referee and a party there
In this regard, there is no "private area" that can be used "off-the-record" for dialogues
can. As far as the interpretation of the obligations under the Information Obligation Act is concerned, I must
They treat you like any enquirer: the data protection authority does not offer an individual,
about the instructions for procedural acts in the complaints procedure before the DSB
additional legal advice. The question of which substantive legal situation in
"Transitional cases" according to § 69 paragraphs 4 and 5 DSG from the administrative courts
is to be applied is also contentious and has not yet been the subject of at least one
decided (revision) procedure at the VwGH.

Sincerely,

---

Michael SUDA
Data Protection Authority (Attention, new address from March 15th, 2019!)
Barichgasse 40-42
A-1030 Vienna



Landline: +43 1 52152 2554
Mobile: +43 676 89891 2554"
 

[Quotation not reproduced here]

5. Evidence: These statements are based on the content of the quoted, with the

Inbox (application for information) related e-mail exchange.

6. The applicant then sent an email on March 24, 2019 with the following content

the address of the data protection authority (dsb@dsb.gv.at):

"Ladies and gentlemen,

I acknowledge that the data protection authority has read my communication of 03/18/2019
qualified as a request for information within the meaning of the Federal Information Obligation Act.

With regard to this legal opinion of the DSB, I hereby submit the

application

on the issuance of a decision in accordance with Section 4 of the Duty to Provide Information Act.

Sincerely

Mag. Eduard A***”

 

7. Evidence assessment: as last.

B. In legal terms it follows

B1 Normative content of Section 1 of the Duty to Provide Information Act

8. Aim and purpose of the constitutionally guaranteed in Art. 20 Para. 4 B-VG

Right of access is to give citizens access to information

allow, which only the public administration has, especially when the

Access to the information sought for the exercise of the right to free

expression of opinion, especially the freedom to receive and impart

Messages or ideas that is instrumental. The limitations of the obligation to provide information are

to be interpreted narrowly if a request for information as a relevant preparatory step

for journalistic or other activities involving a forum for a public

Debate is to be seen, the information sought in the debate

are in the public interest and the information seeker has a role as a "watchdog" in

In the sense of the case law of the ECtHR (cf. the considerations of the VwGH in

E of 05/29/2018, Ra 2017/03/0083).

9. Conversely, within the framework of the obligation to provide information, it is not the task of an authority

Obtain or relevant information that they do not have themselves

academically trained specialists, such as lawyers, trainee lawyers

or other practicing lawyers, for professional and private purposes

to carry out judicial research, for example, and then to the inquirers

share result.

10. Information within the meaning of the information obligation laws of the federal and state governments always have

Declarations of knowledge on the subject, the content of which is exclusively such

is information that is already known to the administration at the time of the request

and not only by the requested administrative entity for the purpose of fulfilling the

obligation to provide information must be obtained. Providing information means passing it on

of information about the content of a file, which as a rule does not indicate that level of detail

will have information that could be gained by inspecting the files. the

Use of the term "information" means that the administration is not about to

extensive elaborations, for the preparation of expert opinions or for the procurement of

other accessible information is also behaved. In this respect, the law is

Subordination of the provision of information to the other tasks of the administration

derivable, from which it follows that requests for information are specific, in the intended

answerable within a short period of time without impairing the other administrative processes

Questions must contain (VwGH, E 27.11.2018, Ra 2017/02/0141, RS 2 with reference

on ErläutRV 41 BlgNR 17. GP, 3; Administrative Court of September 9, 2015, 2013/04/0021; cf

also VwGH of November 26, 2008, 2007/06/0084; Administrative Court of July 23, 2013,

2010/05/0230).

B2 Legal conclusions

11. The questions asked by the applicant do not fall within the official enforcement area

the data protection authority. The authority is only involved in relevant legal issues

As part of their procedural role as an official party in administrative court proceedings

confronted. In this respect, the data protection authority and the applicant who

both parties to an appeal proceeding regarding a finding of

Federal Administrative Court are here for access to the requested information

same level compared.

12. The applicant's first question could not be answered as it was already on the ground

the formulation of the question (“What is the legal situation?”) by an application for creation

of a legal opinion, on its fulfillment according to § 1 para. 1

Duty to Provide Information Act 1987 there is no entitlement.

13. Common to both of the applicant's questions is the question of possible

jurisprudence. The applicant was already informed about the second question in the

Answer from Mag. Suda from his own knowledge that the

corresponding question not decided and at least one relevant procedure

is pending at the Administrative Court.

14. Whether there is any other relevant case law, such as that of

Federal Administrative Court, the data protection authority can based on the state of the files

and the knowledge available at the authority cannot state with certainty. Because of his

However, the applicant would need to be able to provide this desired training

Information itself from other sources, for example by researching exactly for such

Purposes set up public legal information system of the federal government (RIS), in which

according to § 20 BVwGG all not only procedural decisions of the

be published by the Federal Administrative Court.

15. The request for information was therefore to be dismissed in accordance with the ruling.

