Press Release: No. 2/2022
Magdeburg, July 19, 2022

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 

Coordinated review of the order processing contracts of web hosts

 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection in Saxony-Anhalt is taking part in a
Cross-border examination, in which the data protection model contracts -
so-called order processing contracts - between web hosts and their customers
diners and customers are checked. Participate in this coordinated exam alongside
Saxony-Anhalt the data protection supervisory authorities from Berlin, Lower Saxony, Rhine-
state-Palatinate, Saxony and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision.

Many companies and organizations operate their website or their online
Shop via an external service provider (web hoster). Personal data are also
processed data from visitors to the website. in re
If applicable, this processing is carried out on behalf of the person responsible, i.e. the website operator
drivers. This means that the web host is a processor under data protection law.
In order to define a concrete framework for this instruction-bound activity,
the site operator and the web host must conclude a specific contract,
the so-called order processing contract (AVV). The General Data Protection Regulation
Regulation (DS-GVO) describes in detail which rights, obligations and measures in the
AVV must be regulated.

The data protection supervisory authorities regularly receive inquiries from those responsible
who find that the AVV offered by the web host does not meet the requirements
gene of the DS-GVO. The audit of the supervisory authorities confirms this
print again and again. For example, many AVV do not see sufficient
the web host that the agreed data protection measures
implemented. This can become a big problem for site operators,
as they are responsible for the data protection supervisory authorities and the
affected persons must be able to prove that they meet the requirements of the data
comply with protection.

 

Press Release: No. 2/2022
Magdeburg, July 19, 2022

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 

In order to support web hosts and those responsible when concluding legally compliant AVV
support, the state commissioner for data protection checks the model contracts
selected web hosts from Saxony-Anhalt. To do this, the coordinated
the data protection supervisory authorities involved in the examination, a checklist together with
created in a way that they also make available to the web hosts and that are set out under
https://datenschutz.sachsen-anhalt.de/service/aktuelles/auftragsverarbeitung/ call-
is cash.

 
 

 

Imprint:
 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
Leiterstrasse 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

