 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Shop Privacy
Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
New guidance on data protection as a criterion in the award procedure

Munich, April 27, 2023

Everyone knows that careless consumer decisions can cause lasting trouble. A-
Buyers in Bavarian state authorities or municipalities can use this everyday experience in
Sometimes unexpectedly "refresh" your professional life. But it is often more expensive than with one
Vacuum cleaner mistake - if, for example, an expensive IT service is procured, but later
turns out that it may not be used at all for data protection reasons.

Many services and products that Bavarian public bodies procure have references
on data protection and must comply with relevant legal requirements as well as supplementary
meet technical and organizational standards. The course for (also) data protection
fair product are provided in the course of the procurement process.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “Effective data protection work focuses on prevention.
And sometimes it has to take effect early, long before a person responsible can start productively with the
processing of personal data begins. I am therefore particularly pleased to
to be able to present the decision-making aid ‘Data protection as a criterion in the award procedure’.”

The 43-page paper shows, taking into account the most recent practice in awarding
chambers and courts systematically which "gateways" are in procurement processes
open to data protection requirements and how to use them effectively. It deals
among other things, also with the legality requirements of the particularly practical
xis-relevant award of cloud services. data protection law and public procurement law
shown consistently in the network. The paper is equally aimed at people with this
like that technical focus.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "I hope my new guide can contribute to that
Public procurement law and data protection law will be discussed even more than before. that
Creation processes are consistently geared towards data protection-compliant services,
is an indispensable prerequisite for economical and economical use of funds.”

The guide "Data protection as a criterion in the award procedure" is available on the Internet
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the section “Data Protection Reform 2018” for the
free download ready.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

