 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Opinion  12/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of France regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022  

 

 

Adopted   

1 

Table of contents 

1 
2 

3 
4 
 

 

Summary of the Facts ................................................................................................................... 4 
Assessment ................................................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 
PREFIX ............................................................................................................................ 6 
2.2.1 
GENERAL REMARKS ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2.2 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 6 
2.2.3 
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................... 7 
2.2.4 
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS .............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.5 
2.2.6  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................... 9 
Conclusions / Recommendations .................................................................................................. 9 
Final Remarks .............................................................................................................................. 10 

 

Adopted   

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted   

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  French  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “FR  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 29 March 2022. 
The FR national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the FR SA, once they are approved by the FR SA, following an opinion from the 
Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies.  

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the FR SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation. 

3. 

This assessment of FR SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

4 

Adopted   

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the FR 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the FR SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the FR SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

independence of the certification body 

b. 
c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  
d.  expertise of the certification body 
e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 
g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

9. 

Adopted   

5 

a.  Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

10. 

11. 

12. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REMARKS 

Section 5 of the draft accreditation requirements mentions that the CB shall inform the NAB regarding 
any  other  binding  decision  that  may  constitute  a  non-conformity  to  the  requirements  of  this 
document. The EDPB encourages the FR SA to redraft this requirement so to include explicitly the 
decisions of the competent judicial authorities that may affect the accreditation.  

In general, the Board encourages the FR SA to ensure consistency of the wording throughout the text 
(e.g. translation problem in section 4.6 heading). Similarly in section 7(3)(3)(f), there is a new term 
introduced, this of “candidate” instead of applicant.  

2.2.3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

13.  Regarding section 4.1 “legal responsibility”, the Board encourages the FR SA to explicitly refer to up-

to-date procedures and measures.   

14.  With respect to section 4.1.2(2) letter b, states that “the methods to be applied by the certification 
body for the assessment of the target of evaluation, as defined in the requirements in §7.3(2) b) of 

6 

Adopted   

this document”. In this regard,  the Board, for the sake of clarity,  encourages the FR SA to redraft this 
requirement  and  bring  it  in  line  with  the  Guidelines  (section  7(3)(1)  of  the  Annex),  by  explicitly 
referring to binding character of the evaluation methods. 

15.  Concerning  section  4.1.2(2)  letter  c  of  FR  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  regarding  the 
organisation and the procedures to be put in place by the certification body for complaint and appeal 
management, the Board encourages the FR SA to bring it line with the Guidelines (section 4.1(8)) by 
adding the reference to “additionally, lit. j, shall also contain explicit statements on the structure and 
the procedure for complaint management in accordance with Article. 43(2)(d);”. 

16.  Regarding  section  4.1.3(1),  letter  a  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  FR  SA  refers  to 
“certification  mechanism  is  clearly  referenced,  and,  where  applicable,  the  subset  of  the  criteria 
applicable to the target of evaluation is indicated”. The Board encourages the FR SA to further explain 
in the requirements the essence of this concept of the subset of the criteria.  

17.  Regarding section 4.2 “management of impartiality”, the Board notes that the draft accreditation 
requirements  make  reference  only  to  rules  to  prevent  the  conflict  of  interest.    The  Board 
acknowledges the importance to have requirements to ensure, firstly, that there are no conflicts of 
interest and, secondly in case conflicts of interest are identified, that the certification body manages 
them. Therefore, the Board encourages the FR SA, in addition to having rules preventing conflicts, 
there should be clear rules to manage identified conflicts of interest. 

18.  Regarding section 4.2(b) “it is not affiliated to the client’s organization nor does it share the same 
holding than its client”, the Board encourages the FR SA to clarify the wording, in order to reflect the 
independence of the certification body. For example, the FR SA could state that the certification body 
should not belong to the same company group nor should be controlled in any way by the customer 
it assesses. 

19.  According  to  the  Guidelines  (Annex,  section  4.1.2.2  “  the  certification  body  shall  demonstrate  in 
addition  to  requirements  of  ISO/IEC  17065/2012  that  its  certification  agreements:  require  the 
applicant  to  allow  full  transparency  to  the  competent  supervisory  authority  with  respect  to  the 
certification  procedure,  including  contractually  confidential  matters  related  to  data  protection 
compliance”. The Board notes that the explicit reference to the “contractually confidential matters” 
is  missing  in  section  4.5  “confidentiality”  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  thus  the  Board 
recommends the FR SA to include explicitly the obligation of the certification body to provide access 
to the SA to contractually confidential matters. 

20.  With respect to section 4.5.b of the FR SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board encourages 
the FR SA to slightly modify the wording “the information to be published by the CNIL in the registry 
of certifications” and add submitted to the CNIL instead.  

2.2.4  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

21.  Regarding section 6.1(1) letters b and c, the Board recommends the FR SA to bring these in line with 

the Guidelines and add appropriate and relevant knowledge instead of appropriate experience.  

22.  With respect to section 6.1(3) last paragraph of the draft accreditation requirements, the latter make 
a reference to the scenario “when the personnel responsible for certification decisions does not have 
such knowledge and experience in personal data protection [...]”. The Board understands that this 
refers to solely one decision that needs to be taken and for which the personnel lacks experience and 

7 

Adopted   

knowledge, but this does not in any way refer to the decision-making of the certification body as a 
whole. To avoid any confusion, the Board recommends that the FR SA further explains this in the 
requirements.  

Similarly, in section 6.1(4) the Board recommends the FR SA to clarify what “Such expertise is not 
necessarily concentrated by one single individual. For instance it can be shared among the members 
of an evaluation team”. 

Section 6.2 “resources for evaluation” the Board recommends the FR SA to clarify that the certification 
body will retain the responsibility for the decision-making even when it uses external experts/bodies.  

23. 

24. 

2.2.5  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

25.  With regards to section 7.2(1) letter h, the Board encourages the FR SA to clarify which information 
on recent sanction decisions and/or corrective measures imposed by the CNIL or other supervisory 
authorities to the applicant shall be obtained by the certification body. More precisely, the notion of 
“recent” needs elaboration. The same also applies for the Section 7.3(2) letter b. 

26.  With  respect  to  section  7.2(1)  letter  h,  the  Board  notes  the  reference  to  “information  related  to 
ongoing investigations, or recent sanction decisions and/or corrective measures imposed by CNIL or 
other  supervisory  authorities”.  However,  for  clarity  purposes,  the  Board  encourages  the  FR  SA  to 
clearly state that these are authorities, refer to competent authorities.  

27.  Regarding Section 7.4(2) letter b of the draft accreditation requirements “a method for evaluating the 
coverage, the type and assessment of all risks considered by the controller and the processor with 
regard to their obligations pursuant to Articles 30, 32 and 35 and 36 of the GDPR, and with regard to 
the appropriateness of technical and organisational measures pursuant to Articles 24, 25 and 32 of 
the GDPR”,  the Board encourages the FR SA to bring this requirement  in line with the Guidelines, by 
adding “insofar as the aforementioned Articles apply to the object of certification”. 

28.  With respect to section 7.4(3) of the FR SA’s draft accreditation requirements, where it is mentioned 
that “where the certification body assigns to the evaluation tasks personnel that does not meet the 
“technical profile” nor the “legal profile” requirements (as defined in para. 6 of the requirements), it 
shall  justify  the  need  for  assigning  an  “expert”  with  specific  competencies  for  the  need  of  the 
evaluation”. The Board understands that this will in case in exceptional circumstances, where there 
will be a need for specific expertise, which the certification body’s personnel will not have. However, 
the Board encourages the FR SA to appropriately rephrase this requirement so to avoid confusion.  

29.  As regards to section 7(5)(1) of the FR SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board encourages 
the FR SA to clarify that the review of the process, as  mentioned in section 7.5 of the Annex of the 
Guidelines, is to be conducted in line with section 7.9(2) of the draft certification requirements, where 
the regularity of the surveillance activities is required .  

30.  Regarding Section 7.8(1)(b) of the FR SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board recommends that 
the  FR  SA  amends  this  requirement  so  to  ensure  that,  in  line  with  the  Guidelines,  a  meaningful 
description on the object of certification is in place.  

31.  With respect to the same section (note 1), where FR SA mentions that “this information does not have 
to be made public, contrary to the information detailed in section 7.8(2) of this document but shall be 
made available upon request to third parties that wish to make sure of the validity of a certification”, 
the Board encourages the FR SA to clarify in the requirements why this distinction is made therein.  

8 

Adopted   

32.  Regarding section 7.9(2) last paragraph of the FR SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 

encourages the FR SA to clarify that it will provide this information to CNIL in writing. 

33.  Concerning Section 7.10(2), the Board acknowledges that according to the FR SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements,  where  there  are  changes  affecting  the  certification  process,  the  evaluation  of  the 
criteria shall be conducted, where required (see letter c in this section). However, the formulation in 
letter  b  may  lead  to  misconceptions  that  such  an  immediate  complementary  evaluation  or  re-
evaluation of the certification criteria will not be the case. Therefore, the Board encourages the FR SA 
to re-formulate this point to avoid any ambiguity by adding a first indent, requiring the documentation 
of an immediate complementary evaluation or re-evaluation of the certification criteria  

2.2.6  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

34.  Regarding section 8.1(1) of the FR SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board recommends that 
the FR SA brings this section in line with the Guidelines, Annex, section 8, by ensuring to add the 
following to the requirements that the management system must specify a methodology for achieving 
and 
these  
requirements in compliance with data protection regulations and for continuously checking them with  
the accredited body itself. 

controlling 

must 

35.  Regarding section to 8.1(2) the Board notes that to provide information must be disclosed at any time, 
and not only during the accreditation procedure, is missing. In particular, the accredited certification 
body 
which  
certifications were carried out on which basis (or certification mechanisms or schemes), how long the  
certifications are valid under which framework and conditions (recital 100).   Therefore the Board 
recommends that the FR SA adds this to the accreditation requirements so to bring them in line with 
the Annex, section 8, of the Guidelines.   

continuously 

permanently 

public 

make 

and 

 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

36. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the FR Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

37.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1)   includes in section 4.5 of the draft requirements an explicit reference to the obligation of 

the certification body to provide access to the SA to contractually confidential matters. 

38.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1)   redrafts the requirement of section 6.1.(1) letters b and c so to refer to appropriate and 

relevant knowledge instead of appropriate expertise.  

2)   further  explains  in  the  section  6.1(3)  last  paragraph,  that  “when  the  personnel 
responsible for certification decisions does not have such knowledge and experience in 
personal data protection [...]”, this refers to solely one decision that needs to be taken 
and for which the personnel lacks experience and knowledge, but this does not in any way 
refer to the decision-making of the certification body as a whole. 

9 

Adopted   

3)  similarly, clarifies the reference to “such expertise is not necessarily concentrated by one 

single individual” in section 6.1(4) of the draft requirements.   

 

4)  clarifies in section 6.2 of the draft requirements that the certification body will retain the 

responsibility for the decision-making even when it uses externals/bodies.  

39.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1)  amends  section  7.8(1)(b)  of  the  draft  requirements,  to  ensure,  that  in  line  with  the 

Guidelines, a meaningful description on the object of certification is in place. 
40.  Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1)  adds  the  following  to  the  requirements  that  the  management  system  must  specify  a 
methodology 
these  
requirements  in  compliance  with  data  protection  regulations  and  for  continuously 
checking 
with  
the accredited body itself. 

controlling 

achieving 

them 

and 

for 

2)  includes that the information must be provided at any time. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

41. 

This opinion is addressed to the French Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

42.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the FR  SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

43. 

The FR SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted   

10 

