Opinion 20/2021 on Tobacco Traceability System

Adopted on 18 June 2021

Adopted

1

Contents
1. BACKGROUND........................................................................................................................3
2.
SCOPE OF THE OPINION .....................................................................................................4
3. ASSESSMENT.......................................................................................................................5

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(b) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by
the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1. BACKGROUND

1. On 3 March 2021, the European Commission (“Commission”) requested the opinion of the EDPB, on
the  basis  of  Article  70(1)(b)  GDPR,  on  three  questions  related  to  the  different  roles  of  the  actors
involved in the tobacco traceability system established under Directive 2014/40/EU of the European
Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  3 April  2014  on  the  approximation  of  the  laws,  regulations  and
administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of
tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (the “Tobacco Products Directive”
or “Directive”).

2. The Tobacco Products Directive envisages the establishment of a traceability system to track and trace
the  movements  of  tobacco  products  within  the  Union  territory,  in  order  to  facilitate  the  smooth
functioning of the internal market for tobacco and related products and ensure their compliance with
the  Directive.2 On  the  basis  of Article  15(11)  Directive,  the  Commission  adopted  the  Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/574 and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/573 which
lay  down,  respectively,  technical  standards  for  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  traceability
system for tobacco products and the key elements of data storage contracts to be concluded as part
of a traceability system for tobacco products.

3. Under the tobacco traceability system, all unit packets of tobacco products are required to be marked
with a unique identifier. The ID Issuers are the actors entrusted with generating and issuing the unique
identifier. Personal data processed in this context are related to the request of the unique identifier
code for economic operators (e.g. contact details, VAT number, address of economic operators that
are natural persons or whose information relate to natural persons).3The information collected by the
ID  Issuers  (including  personal  data)  is  stored  in  the  ID  Issuers’  registries  and  transmitted  to  the
secondary repository, which is part of the repositories system, composed by the primary repositories,

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA Member
States”.
2 Articles 1 and 15 Directive.
3 See CJEU Joined Cases C-92/09 and C-93/09, with regard to the protection of the personal data of natural persons
who are identified or identifiable on the names of legal persons.

Adopted

3

the secondary repository and a routing service (“the router”) set up and managed by the provider of
the secondary repository.

4. The providers of primary repositories are contracted by the tobacco manufacturers and importers and
approved by the Commission. These host information (including personal data) relating to tobacco
products of the manufacturer or importers who contracted the repository. The information is shared
with the secondary repository, which is a central data storage repository containing a copy of all the
data stored in the primary repositories and ID Issuers registries. Personal data processed in this context
relate to recording and transmitting information on product movements or transactional information
(e.g. contact details of destination facilities of sole traders; contact details and VAT numbers of buyers
and payers who are sole traders or whose name may identify a natural person).

5. The competent authorities of the Member States and the Commission have access to the data stored
in the primary and secondary repositories and are entrusted with enforcement and monitoring tasks,
respectively, to ensure compliance with the Directive and relevant legislation.

2. SCOPE OF THE OPINION

6. The Commission requested the opinion of the EDPB, on the basis of Article 70(1)(b) GDPR, on the data
protection  aspects  of  the  tobacco  traceability  system.  The  Commission  asked,  in  particular,  three
specific questions:

I.

II.

III.

Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which the Member States and the Commission act as joint controllers with regard to the processing
of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  the  EU  tobacco  traceability  system,  as explained  in  the
background information in this note?

Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which  the  ID  Issuers  act  as  processors  of  the  Member  States  as  explained  in  the  background
information in this note?

Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which the independent third parties hosting the primary repositories act as sub-processors of the
operator  of  the  secondary  repository  acting  as  processor  on behalf  of  the  joint  controllers
(Commission and Member States), as explained in the background information in this note?

7. The EDPB would like to underline that, in accordance to art. 70(1)(b) of the GDPR, the EDPB is tasked
with providing advice to the Commission on any issue related to the protection of personal data in the
Union.  This  task,  however,  should  not  be  understood  as  an  obligation of  the  EDPB to  advise  the
Commission with regard to specific processing operations where the latter is involved as a controller
or processor. In this regard, the EDPB recalls that the responsibility to ensure compliance with the
applicable data protection legislation, including the assessment of the role of the actors involved in the
processing activities at stake, lies with the controller and processor, assisted by, where applicable, their
data protection officer. In the spirit of the principle of cooperation that governs the inter-institutional
at  an  EU  level  relationship  between  the  Commission  and  the  EDPB, the  present  Opinion  contains
elements  to  be  considered  by  the  Commission.  It  is  made  only  on  the  basis  of  the  Commission’s
assessment as provided to the EDPB. This Opinion has the nature of a general advice and does not, in

Adopted

4

any  manner,  intend  to  provide  definitive  views  and  legal  analysis  as  it  does  not  substitute  the
obligations of the controller(s) to ensure that the processing of personal data is compliant with the
applicable data protection legislation, including with regard to the determination of the roles of the
actors involved. In addition, the omission of any references, in this opinion, to any other aspects of the
processing of personal data within the system does not signal either approval or disapproval from the
EDPB or any of its members, as data protection regulators. This is without prejudice to any specific
further assessments conducted by the European Data Protection Supervisor (“EDPS”) or the national
data protection Supervisory Authorities.

8. Moreover,  the  EDPS  remains  the  entity  responsible  for  the  supervision  of  EU  institutions,  bodies,
offices and agencies regarding the processing of personal data in the context of their mandates, as
foreseen  in  Regulation  2018/1725.4 As  a  result,  any  requests  from  the  Commission  concerning
compliance  with,  or  implementation  of  any  provisions  regarding  Regulation  2018/1725  should  be
addressed primarily to the EDPS.

9. Finally,  the  EDPB  also  recalls  that  in  line  with  the GDPR,  the  national  data  protection supervisory
authorities remain entirely responsible for the supervision of the processing of personal data within
the tobacco traceability system by the national authorities and economic operators in their Member
States. The EDPS and the national authorities are regularly making available guidelines and practical
tools to assist Controllers and Processors to ensure data protection compliance.

10. The EDPB also invites the Commission to consider the published EDPB guidelines aiming to ensure

consistent application of the GDPR.

3. ASSESSMENT

(1) Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which the Member States and the Commission act as joint controllers with regard to the processing of
personal  data  in  the  context  of  the  EU  tobacco  traceability  system,  as  explained  in  the background
information in this note?

11. In accordance with article 26 GDPR “[w]here two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes
and means of processing, they shall be joint controllers”. As underlined in the EDPB Guidelines 07/2020
on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR (the “Guidelines”), “jointly” means “together
with” or “not alone” and the assessment of joint controllership entails the factual analysis of the actual
influence  on  the  determination  of  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing.5 In  this  regard,  an
important criterion to identify the joint determination is “whether the processing would not be possible
without both parties’ participation in the sense that the processing by each party is inseparable, i.e.
inextricably linked.”6

12. In the present case, the EDPB understands that the purposes of the processing stem from Directive
2014/40/EU. With the objective to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market for tobacco

4 See article 52 of Regulation 2018/1725.
5 Par. 48 and 49 Guidelines.
6 Guidelines par. 53.

Adopted

5

and related products and ensure compliance with the provisions of the Directive,7 Article 15 Directive
envisages the establishment of a tobacco traceability system to track and trace the movements of
tobacco products within the EU. Under this system, all unit packets of tobacco products are marked
with a unique identifier. This allows the tracking and tracing of the tobacco packets, since economic
operators involved in tobacco trade are required to record the relevant information throughout the
supply chain. The data collected (including personal data) are made accessible to the Commission and
Member  States.  The  latter  are  entrusted  with  ensuring  the  compliance  of  tobacco  and  related
products with the Directive and the implementing and delegated acts provided for therein, including
by laying down rules on penalties applicable to infringements and ensuring that the penalties are
enforced.8 The Commission is entrusted with monitoring tasks.9 The respective duties and powers of
the Commission and the Member States are described in the Implementing Regulation 2018/574.

Joint determination of the purposes

13. As underlined in the Guidelines, a joint determination of the purpose exists when the entities involved
process the data for the same, or common, purposes or for purposes, which are closely linked or
complementary.10

14. In general terms, it is the EDPB’s understanding that the processing of personal data in the context of
the  tobacco  traceability  system  takes  place  for  tobacco  control  purposes,  in  order  to  ensure
compliance with the Directive and relevant legislation, as explained above. As laid out in the Directive,
both the Commission and the Member States are entrusted with monitoring and enforcement tasks,
respectively, these tasks being complementary and inextricably linked.11 Consequently, it appears that
the  Directive  provides  the  relevant  elements  to  assess  whether  the  Member  States  and  the
Commission share the common purpose to ensure compliance with the Directive and with the relevant
legislation.

15. As stated above, joint controllership exists when the different parties determine jointly the purpose
and the means of the processing activity. Thus, assessing the existence of joint controllers requires not
only examining whether the purposes are determined by more than one party, but also the means.12

Joint determination of means

16. As stated in the Guidelines, the joint determination of the means of the processing does not entail that
each entity needs in all cases to determine all of the means. Thus, “different entities may be involved
at different stages of that processing and to different degrees. Different joint controllers may therefore
define the means of the processing to a different extent, depending on who is effectively in a position
to do so”.13

7 See Article 1 Directive.
8 See article 23(2) and 23(3) Directive.
9 See, for example, article 15.8 of the Directive that entrusts the Commission with ensuring the suitability, in particular
its  independence  and  technical  capacities,  of  the  primary  repository  providers  and  with  approving  the  external
auditor tasked to monitor the activities of the primary repository provides.
10 Pars. 57-58 Guidelines.
11 See, for example, Art. 25(1)(l), 26(6), 27(2), 27(3)(a), 27(4) and 27(5) Regulation 2018/574 provides the Commission
and the Member States with the same tasks.
12 Guidelines, para. 48.
13 Guidelines, para. 61.

Adopted

6

17. Within the tobacco traceability system, there are two types of locations in which personal data are
processed, by means of storage and exchange: the registries established and maintained by the ID
issuers and the repositories system (which include the primary repositories, the secondary repository
and the router set up and managed by the provider of the secondary repository). Personal data are
processed through those different platforms, which are necessary for the functioning of the tobacco
traceability  system.  Without  the  mediation  of  the  ID  issuers  and  the  repositories,  data  (including
personal data) would not be collected, exchanged and made accessible to the Member States and the
Commission.

18. As stated in the Guidelines, “‘[e]ssential means’ are closely linked to the purpose and the scope of the
processing  and  are  traditionally  and  inherently  reserved  to  the  controller”.14 Given  the  specific
functioning of the tobacco traceability system as described in the Directive and Regulation 2018/574,
it appears that the purpose of ensuring compliance with the Directive and relevant legislation would
not be attainable without the involvement of the ID issuers and the providers of the repositories, which
provide the platforms that allow the collection, storage and exchange of information.15

19. According to Article 3 of Commission Implementing Regulation 2018/574, the ID issuers that establish
and maintain the first type of registries are entities appointed by the Member States. In addition,
Member  States  are entrusted  with  ensuring  that  the  ID  issuers  comply  with  the  independence
requirements laid down in Article 35 of Regulation 2018/574. The Commission is not directly involved
in the choice of the ID issuers. However, it is tasked with the monitoring of the compliance of the ID
issuers with the independence requirements.16 The information gathered in the ID issuers’ registries
is forwarded to the secondary repository via the router, where it can be accessed by the Commission
and the competent authorities of the Member States.

20. The secondary repository contains a copy of all data stored in the different primary repositories and
ID Issuers’ registries, as per Articles 20(3) and 27(1) Regulation 2018/574. Member States and the
Commission have access to the data stored in the primary and secondary repositories, and have the
right to create, manage and withdraw user access rights for the repositories and to download full and
selected  sets  of  data  for  the  purposes  foreseen  in  the  Directive.17 The  provider  of  the  secondary
repository, who is also in charge of providing the router, is appointed by the Commission from among
the providers of primary repositories.18 Likewise, the Commission is entrusted to approve the provider
of the primary repository proposed by the manufacturer or importer, as well as the draft storage
contract.19 Member  States  do  not  have  any  influence  on  the  choice,  but  they  are  entrusted  with
ensuring that manufacturers and importers conclude data storage contracts with providers of primary
repositories.20 In addition, Member States shall monitor and ensure the compliance of the providers
of the primary repositories with the independence requirements.21

14 Guidelines, para. 38.
15 See Art. 1(b) Directive, which refers to the traceability of tobacco products “to ensure their compliance with [the]
Directive”. Article 15 Directive provides for the key elements of the tobacco traceability system.
16 See art. 35.4 and 35.7 of Regulation 2018/574.
17 See article 25(1)(k)-(l) and 25(2) of Regulation 2018/574.
18 See Article 27(1) and Annex I Part B par. 1 to Implementing Regulation 2018/574.
19 See Article 15(8) Directive and Annex I Part A par. 3 to Implementing Regulation 2018/574.
20 Article 15(8) Directive.
21 Article 35(6) Regulation 2018/574.

Adopted

7

21. From the above, it seems to be apparent that, whereas Member States exert a decisive influence on
the choice of the ID Issuers, the Commission does so with regard to the providers of the repositories,
by  approving  the  proposed  providers  of  primary  repositories  and  appointing  the  provider  of  the
secondary  repository.  In  this  context,  it  is  relevant  to  underline  that,  as  stated  in  the  Guidelines,
“[p]rocessing  of  personal  data  can  involve  multiple  processors.  For  example,  a  controller [or  joint
controllers] may itself choose to directly engage multiple processors, by involving different processors
at separate stages of the processing (multiple processors).”22

22. In the present case, all the means used for the processing of personal data are necessary in order to
achieve  the  purpose  of  ensuring  compliance  with  the  Directive  and  relevant  legislation.  In  fact,
whereas all the data are eventually stored in the secondary repository, the traceability of the tobacco
products would not be possible without the information provided by the ID Issuers (and the primary
repositories). In other words, in order to achieve the purpose of monitoring compliance with and
enforcing the rules in the context of the tobacco traceability system, all the means identified (i.e. the
ID Issuers’ registries and the repositories) are necessary. Otherwise, the traceability of the tobacco
products would not be possible and, therefore, the purpose of the processing would not be achievable.

23. In light of the elements above and as a preliminary analysis, the EDPB considers that the Commission
has  taken  into  consideration  the  necessary  elements  to  perform  the  assessment  of  joint
controllership. This is without prejudice to any specific further assessment pursuant to applicable
data protection legislation carried out by the controller as part of its obligations or by a competent
supervisory authority in the exercise of its powers.

24. In addition, the EDPB recalls that the existence of joint controllership does not necessarily imply equal
responsibility of the different actors involved.23 The level of responsibility shall be assessed on a case-
by-case basis, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case. In this regard, the EDPB recalls
that joint controllers “can have a certain degree of flexibility in distributing and allocating obligations
among them as long as they ensure full compliance with the GDPR with respect of the given processing.
The allocation should take into account factors such as, who is competent and in a position to effectively
ensure data subject’s rights as well as to comply with the relevant obligations under the GDPR”.24

(2) Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which the ID Issuers act as processors of the Member States as explained in the background information
in this note?

25. In the background information provided by the Commission, it is stated that, since the Commission is
not involved in the establishment and functioning of the ID Issuers and the processing is based on their
contractual relationship with the Member State that appoints them, the ID Issuers do not qualify as
the Commission’s processor.

26. The EDPB recalls that there are two basic conditions to qualify as a processor: being a separate entity
in relation to the controller and processing personal data on the controller’s behalf.25 As the EDPB has
previously stated, processing personal data on the controller’s behalf requires that the separate entity

22 Guidelines, para. 73.
23 See Guidelines para. 56.
24 See Guidelines para 165.
25 Guidelines, para. 74.

Adopted

8

process personal data for the benefit of the controller. This entails that the processors implement the
instructions given by the controller with regard to the purpose of the processing and the essential
elements of the means.26

27. In the case of the ID Issuers, albeit some of the elements of the processing may be laid down in the
contracts between the ID Issuers and the Member State appointing them, other relevant aspects of
the  processing,  in  particular  regarding  the  exchange with the  secondary  repository,  seem  to  be
determined otherwise, as explained in the next paragraphs.

28. As indicated above, the role of the ID Issuers within the tobacco traceability system is to generate and
issue unique identifiers and transmit the information (including the personal data collected in the
context of generating and issuing the unique identifier) to the secondary repository via the router.27
Once the information is transmitted to the secondary repository, the Commission and the Member
States  can  access  it  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  compliance.  The  transmission  of  the  data  to  the
secondary repository via the router takes places “using the data format and data exchange modalities
defined  by  the  router”28, which  is  set  up  and managed  by  the  secondary  repository  provider.29 In
addition, it shall be noted that, as per Article 28(1) Regulation 2018/574, “[t]he provider operating the
secondary repository shall communicate to providers operating primary repositories, ID issuers and
economic  operators, the  list  of  specifications  required  for  the  data  exchange  with  the  secondary
repository and the router. All specifications shall be based on non-proprietary open standards”.

29. From  the  above,  it  appears  that the  ID  Issuers  shall follow  the  provisions of  Regulation 2018/574
(including the technical specifications in its Annex) and the instructions of the secondary repository
provider with regard to the storage and especially the exchange of data -including personal data, within
the tobacco traceability system. In addition, it stems from the Directive that the processing of personal
data by the ID Issuers is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the Directive and the relevant
legislation, which would not be possible without the data transmitted by the ID Issuers.30

30. In light of the elements above and as a preliminary analysis, the EDPB considers that the Commission
has not taken into consideration all the necessary elements to perform the assessment on the role
of the ID issuers. In this regard, it should be noted that, in case of joint controllership, the mere fact
that the ID Issuers are appointed by the Member State, does not necessarily imply that they are only
processors  of  the  Member  State. This  is  without  prejudice  to  any  specific  further  assessment
pursuant  to  applicable  data  protection  legislation  carried  out  by  the  controller  as  part  of  its
obligations or by a competent supervisory authority in the exercise of its powers.

31. As  underlined  above,  the  joint  controllership  arrangement  shall  include  the  distribution  of  the
responsibilities, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case. In this respect, as stated in

26 Guidelines, para. 78.
27 Articles 3 and 20(3) Regulation 2018/574.
28 Article 29(3) Regulation 2018/574.
29 Article 24(1)(c) Regulation 2018/574.
30 In this regard, Article 15(1) Directive states that: “Member States shall ensure that all unit packets of tobacco
products are marked with a unique identifier”.

Adopted

9

the Guidelines, the use of a processor is one of the elements to be considered by the joint controllers
when determining their respective responsibilities.31

(3) Does the European Data Protection Board agree with the Commission’s assessment according to
which  the  independent  third  parties  hosting  the  primary  repositories  act  as  sub-processors  of  the
operator of the secondary repository acting as processor on behalf of the joint controllers (Commission
and Member States), as explained in the background information in this note?

32. The  primary  repositories,  as  defined  under  the  EC  implementing  Regulation,  are  the  repositories
“storing traceability data relating exclusively to the products of a given manufacturer or importer”.32
In general, terms, as it is the case with the provider of the secondary repository and the ID Issuers, the
primary repositories’ providers do not process personal data for their own purposes in this context.
The  data  processed by  the  primary  repositories’  providers  within  the  tobacco  traceability  system
facilitate the Commission and the Member States to ensure the effective monitoring and enforcement
activities in the context of fighting illicit trade in tobacco products.

33. As explained above, each tobacco products’ manufacturer and importer is required to conclude a data
storage contract with an independent third-party provider for establishing a primary repository. The
key elements of the contract are established in the Commission Delegated Regulation 2018/573. The
primary repositories host information, solely relating to the tobacco products of the manufacturer or
importer that contracted such primary repository.33 All the data received by the primary repository, in
the  context  of  a  reporting  activity,  or  for  any  other permitted  reason  shall  be  forwarded  to  the
secondary repository the moment received.34 In this regard, each primary repository shall enter into
an  individual  contract  with  the  provider  appointed  as  a  secondary  repository  to  carry  out  their
services.35 In this context, and on the basis of clarifications provided by the Commission, the EDPB
understands that the secondary repository provider also enters into a data processing agreement with
the providers of the primary repositories, to ensure that the processing carried out by the latter is in
accordance with Art. 28(2) and (3) of the GDPR.

34. Thus, it appears from the applicable legislation that the primary repositories are separate independent
entities, in charge of storing and transmitting the received data to the secondary repository on behalf
of a (joint) controller(s).

35. It shall be noted that, whereas in a given processing operation the essential means of the processing
are determined by the (joint) controller(s), the decision on the non-essential means can be left to the
processor.  As  stated  in  the  Guidelines,  non-essential means, “concern  more  practical  aspects  of
implementation, such as the choice for a particular type of hard- or software or the detailed security
measures”. 36 In the context of the tobacco traceability system, the Board notes that the specific rules

31 Guidelines, para. 163.
32 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Art. 2(13).
33 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Art. 26(2).
34 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Art. 26(2).
35 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Annex I, Part B(4).
36 See Guidelines, para. 38.

10

Adopted

applicable to the processing carried out by the primary repositories are not determined by them nor
they are specified in the contract with the manufacturer or importer.37

36. The practical aspects of the implementation (or “non-essential means”) are set forth in Regulation
2018/574, in the service agreement signed with the secondary repository provider and in the technical
instructions of the latter. In this regard, the storage of data (including personal data) in the primary
repositories has to be conducted in accordance with the “common data dictionary” provided by the
secondary repository,38 which contains the technical aspects of the database kept by the primary and
secondary repositories.39 Likewise, when the primary repository conducts the transfer of data to the
secondary repository, it is not independent in deciding the modalities of the transfer, but it should use
the  data  format  and  data  exchange  modalities,  as  determined  by  the  secondary  repository.40
Additionally, it seems that the secondary repository provider and the primary repositories’ providers
also enter into a data processing agreement for the processing of personal data.

37. It stems from the above that the primary repositories act exclusively in accordance with the rules
described in the Commission Implementing Regulation 2018/574, the technical instructions provided
by the secondary repository and the contract with the operator of the secondary repository.

38. In light of the elements above and as a preliminary analysis, the EDPB considers that the Commission
has taken into consideration the necessary elements to perform the assessment on the role of the
providers of the primary repository. This is without prejudice to any specific further assessment
pursuant to relevant applicable data protection legislation carried out by the controller as part of its
obligations or by a competent supervisory authority in the exercise of its powers.

39. The EDPB underlines that the contract between a processor and a sub-processor shall include the same

data protection obligations that apply to the processor with regard to the controllers.41

40. Finally, the EDPB recalls that, according to Art. 28(2) of the GDPR, in order to engage a (sub) processor,
the processor needs the controller’s approval, either via prior specific or general written authorisation.

37 Article  9  of  Regulation  2018/573  only  establishes  the  obligation  to  specify  in  the  contract  that  the  primary
repository provider will put in place all appropriate measures to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability
of the data stored and that it will be processed in accordance with the GDPR.
38 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Art. 26(5).
39 Article 2(17) Regulation 2018/574.
40 EC Implementing Regulation 18/574 Art. 26(4).
41 Article 28(4) GDPR.

Adopted

11

