 

publication of
30th activity report 2020

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
presents results of his work in 2020

Press Release – Page 1/4
Munich, May 25, 2021

The year 2020 was also a busy one for the data protection supervisory authorities
shaped by the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of my responsibility for
Bavarian public bodies, in particular state authorities and
munen, not only did numerous legislative projects have to be accompanied
as well as to cope with many submissions and requests for advice; also the
Operation was safe regardless of the development of the incidences
deliver. Although not everything a priori and in every respect complete
ran "round": An effective data protection supervisory authority was present at the 366 days
always guaranteed. I would like to thank all my employees for
ters and employees. A special thanks goes to the colleagues
Colleagues from the technical area: You will have one in no time
effective home office offer for all my employees possible
might.

In my activity report, data protection issues are in context
of the COVID-19 pandemic into a focus article
grasps the spectrum of topics ranges from film recordings in the
kenhaus (No. 3.1) on legal issues relating to various data transfers
(No. 3.2, 3.3 and 3.5) to data protection-compliant reporting
about infection numbers (No. 3.7).

The General Data Protection Regulation has now been in force for all for three years.
of the right. That's how long the Bavarian public authorities have lived like
also the citizens of the Free State with the new rules. How
my consulting practice shows that difficulties and conflicts shift

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from May 25, 2021 – page 2/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
now often down to a level of detail; quite a few fundamental questions
have by case law and the work of the data protection
 
supervisory authorities have received at least preliminary clarification. So imprints
also mean dealing with individual data protection issues
Activity report for the year 2020.

First, an extensive focus article consolidates data
Intellectual property rights that I gained from numerous submissions in the
related to the prosecution of traffic violations
won (No. 2). Storage of personal data in
Police area draws attention in four smaller contributions
(No. 5.4 to 5.7); a practical case makes it clear that even the careless
Completion of a "penalty ticket" by the police "on the side" is not permitted in person
sun-related data can be disclosed (No. 5.8).

How multifaceted data protection issues are in an all-
can be a daily phenomenon, shows the article "Factoring in public transport
Services provided by municipal utilities” (No. 6.1). It is about the online
Ticket purchase, which many public transport companies offer. What
concerns the electronic water meters with radio module, my contribution has
found a continuation in the 28th activity report 2018 (there No. 7.3).
(No. 6.2).

Of the contributions relating to administrative digitization,
I would like to highlight two in particular: The contribution “Law on the
Digitization in the Free State of Bavaria" (No. 7.1) reports on my efforts
requirements for the data protection-compliant design of a relevant legal
common basis for action in this area; on the other hand, the
Article "Guidelines for outsourcing municipal IT" (No. 7.2) Insight
in the process of creating a book published at the beginning of the current year
published document, which for the first time in Germany in detail
standards for the support of municipalities by external service providers
formulated in the field of administrative digitization.

In the area of personal data protection, there are innovations that
for contractual employees in the Bavarian public service in
train on the handling of their personnel files (No. 9.1),

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from May 25, 2021 – page 3/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
also a real "trivial problem" to the language, but again and again
The reason for inquiries from various parties is: data protection at Ge-
 
Birthday lists that promote social coexistence among colleagues
circle of colleagues should facilitate (No. 9.2).

Even in the world of schools and universities, there are always
the new privacy issues. In the period under review, this was where the consultation took place
of the legislator in the foreground, for example when it came to data protection
forme regulation of distance learning (No. 10.1.2) and the introductory
distance examinations (No. 10.1.4). With regard to data protection
zes on the exemption from the mask requirement at Bavarian public
Schools received numerous submissions; on this topic I have
a current short information is published, which is continuously updated
(No. 1.1.4).

What concerns the area of technical and organizational data protection
meets, I could make recommendations for the representatives of the Bavarian
state government (No. 12.3) or instructions for the deletion of
Provide data copies from backup systems (No. 12.5). complaints
Bavarian public bodies affected here in the year under review, for example
the sending of an applicant file (No. 12.11.1), the loss of hard disk
ten (No. 12.11.2) or a staff council file (No. 12.11.3).

Contributions to the general right to information (Art. 39 Bayerisches Da-
Tenant Protection Act) conclude the activity report; they appreciate the
Transparency in real estate sales by Bavarian municipalities
(No. 13.1), access to minutes of collegial meetings
self-governing bodies (No. 13.2) and on ministerial letters
(No. 13.3).

The activity report of a data protection supervisory authority says something
about which main areas of work are involved in advising the legislature
lender and the administration as well as on the basis of submissions by the guarantor
have revealed in the reporting period. a rating,
that other issues not addressed in the activity report less so
important or less interesting cannot be inferred from
the. The activity report is always supplemented by further information

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from May 25, 2021 – page 4/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
NEN adds: This is how my range of orientation aids, work
papers, current short information and other materials
 
nat for month further. Under No. 4.1 the activity report gives a brief one
overview of it. If you want to know more, please have a look at mine
Visit the homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de. There he can
new activity report under "order brochures" both in electronic
scher and in printed form.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

