Case number: NAIH / 2020/308.
History case number: NAIH / 2019/6157.

Subject: Partial decision granting the application

DECISION
The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”) [5] (hereinafter referred to as the Requested) the right of access dated 5 July 2019
submitted on 6 August 2019 for failure to comply with his request for the exercise of
take the following decisions in the data protection authority proceedings initiated following the request of:
I. The Authority will grant the Applicant's request and find that the Applicant is not in compliance
complied with its request to exercise its right of access dated 5 July 2019 and thereby infringed
the Applicant's right of access.
II. The Authority shall instruct the Applicant to take action within 30 days of the decision becoming final
provide access to the Applicant's personal data indicated in the access request, here
excluding the data to which the Applicant has requested access, however, shall not be considered as
personal information.
III. The Authority shall make the request in respect of data which do not qualify as personal data of the Applicant
rejects.
ARC. The Authority will of its own motion for the violation set forth in Section I apply to the present decision
within 30 days of becoming final
HUF 2,000,000, ie HUF 2 million
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
***
The II. The measure shall be taken from the date on which the decision becomes final
You must certify in writing within 30 days, together with the supporting evidence, that:
Towards an authority.
The fine is settled by the Authority's forint settlement account for the collection of centralized revenues (1003200001040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000)
to be paid for. When transferring the amount, the NAIH / 2020 / 308.JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the Applicant fails to meet the obligation to pay the fine within the time limit, a late payment allowance
is obliged to pay. The rate of the late payment interest is the statutory interest, which is the calendar affected by the delay
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the first half of the year.
A II. In the event of non-payment of the obligation under paragraph 1 or of the fine and the penalty for late payment, the Authority shall:
order the enforcement of the decision.
There is no administrative appeal against this decision and the order terminating the proceedings
but within 30 days of the communication with the action brought before the Metropolitan Court
may be challenged in an administrative action. The application shall be submitted to the Authority electronically,
which forwards it to the court together with the case file. Request for a hearing in the action
to be indicated. For those who do not receive a full personal tax exemption, there is an administrative lawsuit fee

2

HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. In its application received by the Applicant on 6 August 2019, the Applicant is a data protection authority
initiated proceedings against the Applicant.
According to the application, the Applicant did not comply with the letter dated 5 July 2019 and issued by the Applicant on 5 July 2019.
10 of the request for access to the right to access the data requested
access.
In the access request, the Applicant requested information from the Applicant as to whether this had occurred
data protection incident or rectification in connection with transaction number […]
in connection with your personal data.
The Applicant stated that in his opinion his personal data was subject to a data protection incident
occurred because the “data processed by the Applicant have been modified in a way that is not visible to the data subject
the data controller does not see the consistency and lawfulness of the data processing, the data controller's records
and the data subject's own records do not match for the same dates 'and' the
the data stored in the data controller's register is inconsistent and does not form a closed logical unit
and it is highly probable that there is a discrepancy between the data recorded; the
the controller has conflicting data for at least one of the same dates,
communicated information to the data subject. "
The Applicant also requested information that it was registered on [30 September 2014]
document sent by e-mail from […] on December 9, 2014 at 2:26 p.m.
information that the installment payment agreement has been terminated, what personal data
sent to him on the basis of.
In Section 3 of its request for access, the Applicant requested the Applicant to send it a
each of the payments made by him in the register of the
bank statements affected by the payments made by it
a copy. He also requested the financial and accounting clearance of two payments he had made, […]
covering all direct and indirect transaction items and data.
The Applicant has requested in its application that its request for access under point 3 be made by the Applicant in full
complete in detail and contain the following data: payment transaction IDs, payment
type, amount, cost bearer, actual payer, payee, payee account, actual
beneficiary, title, communication.
The Applicant replied to his request for access by letter dated 16 July 2019, providing information
given on the assignment of a claim registered under number […], data processing in general
the purpose of the processing, the categories of personal data processed, the legal basis for the processing, the recipients, the personal data
the duration of data processing and storage, automated decision-making and the data subject
rights and enforcement.
According to the Applicant, the request for access dated 16 July 2019 was made by the Applicant
The reply letter sent contains only general information but does not respond to the request
specific requests, questions.
The Applicant has requested the Authority to establish the infringement and to oblige the Applicant to
to comply with your request for access and to provide the personal data requested therein.

3

At the request of the Applicant received on 6 August 2019, Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1) a
NAIH / 2019/6157. The case was initiated on 7 August 2019 by a data protection authority.
I.2. In order to clarify the facts, the Authority invited the Applicant to make a statement, which
The Applicant complied with this request by letter dated 28 November 2019, after November 2019
By letter dated 15 May, he requested an extension of 15 days to reply.
The Applicant has informed the Authority that there is a data request between the Applicant and the Applicant
proceedings were pending in the first instance, in which the Metropolitan Court of First Instance
He delivered his judgment on 11 April 2018. The subject of the lawsuit is the information dated 12 February 2016 by the Applicant
was the fulfillment of his request. In connection with this request for information, the Authority shall issue NAIH / 2016/2347/2 / V.
issued a resolution stating that the Applicant had complied with the Applicant's request. On this
In accordance with the resolution, the Metropolitan Court dismissed the Applicant's action. The Applicant
appealed against the decision of the Metropolitan Court. The Metropolitan Judgment Panel is second instance
as a court, upheld the decision at first instance by its judgment of […] dated 30 August 2018. THE
The applicant attached both judgments to his reply.
The Applicant referred to Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure. Act (hereinafter: Pp.)
§ 360 (1), ie the scope of substantive legal force, according to which the final validity of a judgment precludes that
a new action against the same right arising from the same plea in law shall be brought against each other by the same parties
or otherwise challenge a right already decided in the judgment. THE
According to the applicant, the requests set out in point 3 of the request for access
NAIH / 2019/6157/4. in the order of the grounds of the order no. questions
- res iudicata can be established, as they have been the subject of a final judicial decision in civil proceedings.
The Applicant acknowledged that, due to an administrative error, in his reply of 16 July 2019
did not clearly address all the questions asked by the Applicant. The Requested
reviewed the reply sent to the Applicant, which was supplemented and sent to the Authority
sent to the Applicant at the same time as his / her statement. This supplementary reply and the
A summary table of the applicant's payments (hereinafter referred to as the statement) was attached to the
statement. The statement includes the amount paid by the Applicant, the type of payment, a
the date of payment and entry in the accounts, the remarks and whether the payment is due on principal or interest.
has been accounted for.
The Applicant submitted that in connection with the claim registered under number […], the
no data protection incident or rectification has taken place in relation to the personal data processed.
The Applicant informed the Authority that the letter of formal notice dated 30 September 2014 was
using personal data necessary to handle the assigned claim
to the Applicant, which are the assignment of the claim against the Applicant
provided by […]. This letter was sent to the Applicant by the Applicant because
In September 2014, the Applicant did not perform towards the Applicant despite the installment payment
agreement stated that in the event of non - payment of any installment, the total outstanding debt would be one
becomes due. By letter dated 11 November 2014 and
By e-mail dated 9 December, the applicant informed the Applicant that the installment payment
agreement was terminated due to late payment. The Applicant himself released the Applicant
email address for contact.
Payments received by the Applicant will not be registered immediately in each case,
it takes longer to process, so it may be that the Requested December 2014
Your payment on 8 was not yet due when the email was sent on December 9, 2014
visible.
Given that the Applicant is different from the installment payment agreement, but the payment
fulfilled its obligation in full, so Case […] was filed on April 27, 2018
which was notified to the Applicant by a certificate dated 2 May 2018.

4

1.3. Upon receipt of the Applicant's supplemented response, the Applicant shall submit another statement
to the Authority, as it considered that the Applicant's reply was still incomplete. Statement
according to the Applicant's answer consisted of only three numbered pages, to which the Applicant was not attached
although it refers to it in the text of the letter: 'As Annex 1 to this information letter
we will send you a statement showing on what days and in what amount you have completed
payment to our Company. ”
II. Applicable legal provisions
The protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and such
2016/679 on the free movement of data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
(EU) Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR) for the processing of data in the present case
the GDPR shall apply.
The relevant provisions of the GDPR in the present case are the following:
Article 15 GDPR: 1. The data subject shall have the right to receive feedback from the controller that:
whether the processing of your personal data is in progress and, if such processing is in progress,
have the right to access personal data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been disclosed
or will be communicated, including in particular to third country recipients or international
organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, this
criteria for determining duration;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data and may object to the processing of such personal data
against;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including profiling
and, at least in these cases, the logic used
information on the significance of such data processing and what is expected of the data subject
consequences.
(3) The data controller shall provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data which are the subject of the data processing
release. For additional copies requested by the data subject, the data controller shall, on the basis of administrative costs,
you may charge a reasonable fee. If the application was submitted by electronic means, the
information shall be provided in a widely used electronic format, unless
the person concerned requests otherwise.
4. The right to request a copy referred to in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect others
rights and freedoms.
Article 58 (2) (b), (c) and (i) GDPR: Acting in the corrective power of the supervisory authority:
(b) reprimand the controller or the processor if his or her data processing activities have infringed this
provisions of this Regulation.
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with the conditions laid down in this Regulation
request for the exercise of his rights;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case;
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in
Article 77 (1) GDPR: Without prejudice to other administrative or judicial remedies, all
the person concerned has the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular the normal one
in the Member State of residence, employment or the place of the alleged infringement, if any
considers that the processing of personal data concerning him or her infringes this Regulation.

5

Article 83 (1) to (2) and (5) (a) to (b) of the GDPR: 1. Each supervisory authority shall ensure that this
imposed pursuant to this Article for infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
administrative fines must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case.
2. Administrative fines shall be imposed in accordance with Article 58 (2) (a) to (h), depending on the circumstances of the case.
and (j) shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in When deciding that
whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or the amount of the administrative fine
In each case, due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature of the processing in question;
the scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement and the
extent of damage;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) to mitigate any damage suffered by the controller or the data subject
any action taken;
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
the technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article.
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and mitigate any adverse effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation in order to
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, in what detail;
(i) if, prior to the controller or processor concerned,
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been imposed
compliance with measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42; and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as:
financial gain or avoidance as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
5. Infringements of the following provisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall not exceed EUR 20 000 000
or, in the case of undertakings, the full financial year of the previous financial year
up to 4% of its worldwide turnover, provided that
a higher amount should be charged:
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
Infotv. § 2 (2): Personal data are subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the Data Protection Regulation in Annexes III-V. and VI / A. Chapter 3 and Sections 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21,
23-24. Section 4 (5), Section 5 (3) to (5), (7) and (8), Section 13 (2)
§ 23, § 25, 25 / G. § (3), (4) and (6), 25 / H. § (2)
paragraph 25 / M. § (2), 25 / N. §, 51 / A. § (1), Articles 52-54. § 55 (1) - (2), 56-60. §, 60 / A. § (1) - (3) and (6), § 61 (1)
paragraph 61 (a) and (c), Section 61 (2) and (3), paragraph (4) (b) and paragraphs (6) to (10)
paragraphs 62 to 71. §, § 72, § 75 (1) - (5), 75 / A. § and 1.
shall apply with the additions set out in Annex I.
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
In order to do so, the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings. For the data protection authority procedure
CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. (hereinafter: Ákr.)
apply with the additions specified in the Information Act and in accordance with the general data protection regulation
with differences.
Infotv. 75 / A. §: The Authority is set out in Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by

6

legislation or a binding act of the European Union
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular the controller or
by alerting the data controller.
The data protection authority procedure is governed by the CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. law
(hereinafter: Ákr.) shall be applied with the additions specified in the Information Act and the
with derogations under the General Data Protection Regulation.
Pp. Section 360 (1): Adjudicated on the merits of the action and the existence of the counterclaim
The finality of a judgment given by way of set - off precludes it from being based on the same fact
the same parties, including their successors in title, shall bring a new action against each other for the same right
or otherwise challenge a right already decided in the judgment.
III. Decision
III.1. Violation of the Applicant's right of access and the principle of transparent data management
The Applicant's request for access dated 5 July 2019 was not of a general nature,
asked some distinct questions about the handling of your personal data.
However, the Applicant's reply letter dated 16 July 2019 is the processing of the Applicant's personal data
with the exception of the information on the assignment, no information expressly provided by the Applicant
did not contain information on the processing of his personal data, at the request of the Applicant a
Requested a template response. In point 2 of the reply, for example, the Applicant states
informed the Applicant that he processes his personal data primarily for the purpose of enforcing a claim,
although, according to his statement, the Applicant has fulfilled his payment obligation and case number […]
It closed on 27 April 2018, so its claim against the Applicant ceased and is therefore conceptually excluded,
to process the Applicant's personal data for the purpose of claim enforcement.
Not to fulfill access requests in a manner that complies with data protection requirements
a formal answer without relevant information is sufficient. Exercise of the right of access
As a result, the obligation to provide information on the side of data controllers is not an administrative one
obligation that can be fulfilled in a template. During the execution of access requests, the
data controllers by tailoring the information to specific data subjects, personalizing it and asking them to do so
issues should be made available to those concerned on a substantive basis. In the absence of this, the
data subjects are not given a clear picture of how their personal data is handled, it does not become transparent to them.
In the response of the Applicant dated 16 July 2019, stated by the Applicant in its request for access
did not answer his questions, which he himself acknowledged in his statement of 28 November 2019: 'A
Our Company sent a reply to the letter according to the document dated 16 July 2019, in which -
due to an administrative error - the Company did not clearly address all the issues raised by the Customer
to answer this question. " In the Authority 's view, this statement is incorrect to the extent that:
the Applicant did not answer any of the questions asked by the Applicant dated 16 July 2019
in the letter.
In view of the above, the Authority finds that the Applicant has infringed Article 15 of the GDPR,
when it did not provide substantive, specific responses to the Applicant’s request for access to the authority
prior to a request that violates the Applicant’s right of access.
III.2. Assessment of the Applicant's reply dated 28 November 2019
a) According to the certificate of return returned to the Authority by the Applicant, the certificate obtained on 31 October 2019
is aware that the Authority has initiated a data protection official procedure at the request of the Applicant. This
subsequently reviewed the Applicant's response to the request for access and dated 28 November 2019
In its letter, it sought to respond to the requests made in the request for access.
The Authority notes that the Applicant’s question is that on 30 September 2014 and 2019.
on the basis of what personal information the letters dated 9 December were sent to him with difficulty
may be interpreted as it may relate to contact details or outstanding debts at that time

7

relevant data. However, subject to the third point of the access request, which is the debt
and other transaction data, the Applicant's answer to these questions
considered appropriate.
The Authority is of the opinion that the incident, the rectification of the data and the
the personal data of the letters dated 30 September 2014 and 9 December 2019
sent by the Applicant to the Applicant, comply with the provisions of the GDPR, ie these issues
the Applicant remedied his omission.
b) The question of res iudicata
Substantive force is the legal effect of a judgment. A Pp. According to the commentary on § 360, substantive legal force
the main legal effect of the judgment is that the judgment confers on the parties the rights and
definitively determine the obligations incumbent on them.
The subject of the civil lawsuit conducted by the Metropolitan Court and the Metropolitan Court of Appeal is the Petitioner 2016.
requests for information dated 12 February, 31 August and 6 October
the adequacy of the data provided by the Applicant to the Applicant. THE
The right to information for the applicant is granted by Infotv. provided by the provisions of
In its judgment, the Metropolitan Court found that the applicant, ie the
to determine the exact content of the data request only in the lawsuit, in the Claimant's claim
took place. It then listed the seven sets of data that the Applicant had in its application
specifically: 'items in the accounting records relating to the analysis of the claim; the
the time balance of the claim record broken down by time composition by item; to the claim
determining the method, method and time of accounting for the amounts paid; from the payment
the extent to which principal, interest and fees have been accounted for; the data reported within interest
breakdown by accounting for default or transaction interest; on bank statements
the communication of the data content containing the title of the transfer; data other than those indicated
whether or not they are on the defendant's register. '
The Metropolitan Court found that ‘prior to bringing an action, the plaintiff
requests containing data requests or the content indicated by the plaintiff in the lawsuit
could not be reconciled with each other or with the defendant's disclosure since the commencement of the lawsuit
The exact content of the three previous requests for information was not determined in comparison with those in the lawsuit. "
The Metropolitan Court emphasized that the Applicant had only complied with the Authority in the lawsuit
NAIH / 2016/2347/2 / V. proposal in its resolution of the Court of Justice to address a specific issue to the
There was no longer a need for the applicant to know the above seven sets of data in the lawsuit
therefore, the Metropolitan Court did not find an infringement.
The Metropolitan Court of Appeal upheld the judgment of the Metropolitan Court, as the decision contained therein was correct.
volt.
According to the commentary on the Pp. (Hereinafter: the commentary), the negative effect of the
further dispute of a given claim. The case is just a re-examination of that dispute
where both the parties and the factual basis and the legal relationship under consideration are the same,
one does not exist, the res iudicata effect does not apply.
According to the commentary, the legal force, including the factual identity, does not extend after the establishment of the legal relationship
facts on which a new action may be brought.
In the Authority’s view, the Applicant’s request for access dated 5 July 2019 is not the previous
a repetition of requests for information examined by a court, but a new, more specific, substantive
request which is not the same as before, therefore the requests for information which are the subject of the lawsuit and the present
there is no identity between the access request which is the subject of an official data protection procedure, so that
there is no factual identity as a condition for the legal effect of the judgment. Among them is the Authority
points out that the Metropolitan Court itself stated in the grounds of its judgment that the
is entitled to submit another specific request for information or to comply with it in an inadequate manner

8

is entitled to go to court again: if the Applicant has “requested it in the lawsuit
the defendant still requires the release of a further 7 types of data, it is not excluded that the
repeatedly marked in accordance with Infotv.14. § a) request for information
validate your claim by submitting. If the defendant is entitled to Infotv. Section 15 (1)
According to
request for information, in which case the claimant may bring an action before the court (…). "
In view of the above, the Authority does not consider the Reference of the Judge to be admissible,
as set out in the Applicant's request for access dated 5 July 2019 and the Capital
As regards the content of the applications examined by the General Court and the Metropolitan Court
not in connection with a request for access which is the subject of the present administrative proceedings
the legal effects related to the judgment are valid and cannot be denied on that ground
fulfilling the Applicant's request for access.
Accordingly, the Authority notes that in its reply of 28 November 2019
with respect to issues related to the development of debt and other transaction data
infringement of the Applicant's right of access to this data,
in breach of Article 15 of the GDPR.
III.3. The quality of personal data of the data requested by the Applicant
In Section 3 of its request for access, the Applicant requested the Applicant to send it a
each of the payments made by him in the register of the
bank statements affected by the payments made by it
Presumably a copy of a bank account. He also asked for two of his accomplishments
payment - […] - financial and accounting settlement of all direct and indirect transaction items
and data.
The Applicant has requested in its application that its request for access under Section 3 be made by the Applicant in full
complete in detail and contain the following data: payment transaction IDs, payment
type, amount, cost bearer, actual payer, payee, payee account, actual
beneficiary, title, communication.
The Applicant's requests contradict each other in that the details of the payments were once a
Requested to the extent of the requested record, while otherwise detailed, relating to transactions
also requests the provision of data.
Given that the Applicant also requested the Authority in its request for an official procedure to:
order the Applicant to make the information indicated in his request for access available, therefore
the Authority must examine whether the requested data is the personal data of the Applicant as these data
The nature of personal data is a precondition for the Authority to be legally obliged to release them
Applicant.
Attached to the Applicant's request for access, entitled "Standard for Intraday Transfer Order"
According to the document, financial institutions have an expanded forint with data content within the framework of their electronic services
they can provide a transfer option for their customers. For customers' electronic transfer orders
its expanded data content facilitates the reconciliation of payments in the records of payment orders
customer-to-customer automation.
Page 5 of the document explains what constitutes a payment transaction ID. According to this, “a
for a payment transaction, so the originator (transferor) can assign two IDs to the order. THE
<order ID> only applies to the relationship between the payer's and the transferor's bank, but
a unique identifier that can be reused in additional messages related to the operation. From the <endpoint
endpoint ID> the originator's / transferor's own transaction ID that accompanies the transaction
also in all processing steps and rejections. The identifier is primarily for consultation,
may be used for retrieval or may involve the performance of certain tasks by the parties
agreement. (…) Failure to complete <endpoint to endpoint> a

9

NOTPROVIDED data in the payment chain will be transmitted by the bank, which will be
unfavorable to the negotiations. "
Based on the above description, the Applicant cannot have the order ID, as it is only the
It is applicable in the relationship between the applicant and his bank, and he is unable to do so
provide access to the Applicant. The Applicant may then have the Applicant initiated
end-to-end ID of transfers, if provided by the transferor
Applicant at the start of the transfer, failing which the Applicant may not have it either.
The payment transaction identifiers refer primarily to the payment transaction itself and are not a
Applicant but the payment transaction is identified. Indirectly, however, the commissioner himself
they can also apply to a person, as the transfer was initiated by him, the transaction with the ID is his
financial situation.
In the Authority's view, the Applicant's personal data will be considered for its payments
the person who made the payment, the amount and type of the payment, the accounting of the payment and the payment
date, name of the beneficiary, title (if any) or transfer
in the case of the applicant, and - if the Applicant is
at the start of the transfer - the end-to-end identifier of the transaction and that the
what payment was accounted for: principal, fee, interest.
A copy of the Applicant's bank statements that are included by the Applicant
payments made, not in full for all payments and disbursements
are considered personal data of the Applicant, as they are only for the specific payment
contain data that can be contacted with him, so the rest of the bank statement
is not entitled to know, only all other items other than the payment of the Applicant.
information and data.
The Applicant did not clearly define exactly what data […] and […]
during the financial and accounting settlement of payments.
The purpose of accounting regulations is to determine the property, financial and income situation of enterprises and their
objective information is available on the development of Individual payments are not personal
are recorded, ‘accounted for’ in the balance sheet under the Accounting Act and
in the income statement, but together with other payments and receipts
combined. As a result, payments are lost when they are accounted for in accordance with the accounting rules
their personal data, as they can no longer be linked to a single specific person. Based on these
the accounting of the payments does not constitute the personal data of the Applicant as they are
information cannot be contacted.
Due to the above, the Applicant is only entitled to access the data that qualify as his personal data
under the right of access under Article 15 of the GDPR.
III.4. Legal consequences
III.4.1. The Authority grants the Applicant's request and pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR
finds that the Applicant infringed Article 15 of the GDPR by failing to reply on the merits to the
At the request of access by the applicant.
III.4.2. The Authority shall oblige the Applicant to comply with Article 3 of the Applicant 's request for access.
the requests set out in point III.3 of the Decision. taking into account the provisions of
The Applicant sent a statement of the Applicant's debts to the Authority, however
the Applicant stated that he had not received it despite the fact that the Applicant refers to the
In its reply dated 28 November 2019. The Authority considers this claim to be substantiated, as the
The Applicant sent a copy of the Applicant's reply letter to the Authority, which was not
contained an annex. In addition, the Applicant addressed to the Authority on 28 November 2019
The revised reply to the Applicant was attached as Annex 5 to the

10

and the statement was not produced separately as Annex 9, so in the Authority's view it was not
part of the revised reply letter sent to the Applicant.
An appropriate way to provide a statement generated by the Applicant is to request access from the Applicant
with certain additions. The Authority shall call the Applicant for the statement
to revise its content, as it is shown that, with the exception of payments between […] and […]
all payments have been entered in the accounts on the date of payment, although all
both in a letter sent to the Applicant dated 28 November 2019
that “payments made in order to settle receivables in the registration system of our Company
they are not registered immediately in the case, it takes longer to process
resort. Thus, it may have happened that in the letter sent by our Company on […], the Customer
your payment was not yet visible. " Accordingly, the Applicant's statement and statement
there is a contradiction between.
If the Applicant does not do the same during the posting and registration of the payment
the Authority considers that in its reply to the request for access
It must also cover the definition of concepts and, in this case, supplement the statement
with the date of registration.
III.4.3. The Authority examined of its own motion whether a data protection fine against the Applicant was justified.
imposition.
In this context, the Authority will amend Article 83 (2) of the GDPR and Infotv. 75 / A. § considered the case
all the circumstances. Given the circumstances of the case and the fact that the Applicant is not the first
infringed the provisions of the GDPR on several occasions, the Authority therefore concluded that the present proceedings
in the case of an infringement detected during the investigation, the warning is neither a disproportionate nor a dissuasive sanction,
it is therefore necessary to impose a fine.
In particular, the Authority took into account that the infringement committed by the Applicant was covered by Article 83 of the GDPR.
Shall be deemed to constitute an infringement falling within the higher category of fines referred to in paragraph 5 (b),
as it involved an infringement of the rights of one data subject.
In imposing the fine, the Authority assessed the following circumstances as aggravating circumstances:
•

•

the Applicant did not act even after becoming aware of this official data protection procedure
quite carefully during the review of its response to the request for access and did not give
information on the transaction data related to the Applicant's payments [Article 83 GDPR
Paragraph 2 (k);
the activity of the Applicant is largely based on the processing of a large number of personal data
handles the personal data of a natural person, thus in the opinion of the Authority from the Applicant
requests to exercise access rights are expected to comply with GDPR requirements
the processing of specific personal data relating to the data subject
answer [Article 83 (2) (k) GDPR].

In imposing the fine, the Authority assessed the following circumstances as mitigating circumstances:
•
•

the violation revealed affects only the Applicant, the violation is not continuous and appropriate
remedied by measures [Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR];
the Applicant reviewed the Applicant’s access upon request to the Authority
responded to the applicant's request and partially complied with the Applicant's request for access [GDPR 83.
Article 2 (2) (c)].

The Authority further noted that
•
•

the Applicant has not previously committed relevant, similar to the findings in the present case
infringement [Article 83 (2) (e) GDPR];
the Applicant has complied with its obligation to cooperate with the Authority [GDPR 83.
Article 2 (2) (f)];

11

•
•

the data requested by the Applicant are financial data related to the dispute between the parties; the
The data breaches identified do not affect specific categories of personal data
[Article 83 (2) (g) GDPR];
According to the 2018 financial statements of the Applicant, the pre-tax profit is HUF […], current year
and the result was HUF […], the amount of the data protection fine imposed was
[…]% of its profit before [Article 83 (5) GDPR].

In imposing fines, the Authority did not consider Article 83 (2) (b), (d), (h), (i),
(j) as they cannot be interpreted in the context of the specific case.
The amount of the fine was determined by the Authority acting in accordance with its statutory discretion.
Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the operative part.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The present decisions are based on Ákr. 80.-81. § and Infotv. They are based on Section 61 (1). The decision and the
order of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), they become final upon their communication. The Ákr. § 112 and 114.
§ (1), there is a right of appeal against the decision through an administrative lawsuit.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Pursuant to Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure.
Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Applicable pursuant to Section 26 (1) - Pursuant to Section 72 a
legal representation is mandatory in litigation falling within the jurisdiction of the tribunal. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6) - if
law does not provide otherwise - the filing of an application is an administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act) Section 9 (1) (b) of the Client’s legal representative
obliged to keep in touch.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter: Itv.)
45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1) and
Section 62 (1) (h) exempts the party initiating the proceedings.
Budapest, January 22, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

