 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 32/2021 regarding the European Commission Draft 

Implementing Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 

2016/679 on the adequate protection of personal data in 

the Republic of Korea 

Version 1.0 

Adopted on 24 September 2021

Adopted 

 

1 

 

CONTENTS 

1. 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................................. 4 

1.1. Areas of convergence ............................................................................................... 4 

1.2. Challenges................................................................................................................ 5 

1.2.1. General ............................................................................................................. 5 

1.2.2. General data protection aspects ......................................................................... 6 

1.2.3. On the access by public authorities to data transferred to the Republic of Korea .. 7 

1.3. Conclusion ............................................................................................................... 8 

2. 

INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................... 8 

2.1. Korean data protection framework............................................................................ 8 

2.2. Scope of the EDPB’s assessment................................................................................ 9 

2.3. General comments and concerns  .............................................................................10 

2.3.1. International commitments entered into by the Republic of Korea ......................10 

2.3.2 Scope of the adequacy decision ..........................................................................10 

3.  GENERAL DATA PROTECTION ASPECTS ........................................................................11 

3.1. Content principles ...................................................................................................11 

3.1.1. Concepts ..........................................................................................................12 

3.1.2. Partial exemptions provided for in PIPA .............................................................13 

3.1.3 Grounds for lawful and fair processing for legitimate purposes  ............................15 

3.1.4 The purpose limitation principle .........................................................................16 

3.1.5 The data quality and proportionality principle .....................................................16 

3.1.6 Data retention principle .....................................................................................17 

3.1.7 The security and confidentiality principle ............................................................17 

3.1.8 The transparency principle .................................................................................18 

3.1.9 Special categories of personal data  .....................................................................19 

3.1.10 Rights of access, rectification, erasure and objection .........................................19 

3.1.11 Restrictions on onward transfers ......................................................................22 

3.1.12 Direct marketing ..............................................................................................23 

3.1.13 Automated decision-making and profiling .........................................................24 

3.1.14 Accountability ..................................................................................................25 

3.2. Procedural and Enforcement Mechanisms ................................................................25 

3.2.1 Competent Independent Supervisory Authority...................................................25 

3.2.2. Existence of a data protection system ensuring a good level of  compliance .........26 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

3.2.3. The data protection  system must provide support and help to data subjects in the 
exercise of their rights and appropriate redress mechanisms .......................................27 

4.  ACCESS  AND  USE OF  PERSONAL DATA  TRANSFERRED  FROM THE  EUROPEAN UNION BY 
PUBLIC AUTHORITIES IN SOUTH KOREA ..............................................................................27 

4.1 General data protection framework in the context of government access ...................28 

4.2  Protection  and  safeguards  for  communication  confirmation  data  in  the  context  of 
government access for law enforcement purposes  ..........................................................28 

4.3 Access  to communication information by Korean public authorities for national security 
purposes........................................................................................................................30 

4.3.1  No  obligation  to  notify  individuals  of  government  access  to  communications 
between foreign nationals  ..........................................................................................30 

4.3.2 No  prior  independent  authorisation  for  collection  of  communication  information 
between foreign nationals  ..........................................................................................31 

4.4 Voluntary disclosures................................................................................................32 

4.5 Further use of information ........................................................................................33 

4.6 Onward transfers and intelligence sharing  .................................................................33 

4.6.1 Applicable legal framework for onward transfers by law enforcement authorities  34 

4.6.2 Applicable legal framework for onward transfers for national security purposes ...35 

4.6.3 International agreements  ...................................................................................36 

4.7 Oversight .................................................................................................................36 

4.8 Judicial remedy and redress  ......................................................................................37 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70(1)(s)  of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council  of 27  April 2016  on the protection  of natural persons  with regard to the processing  of 
personal data and of the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (“GDPR”),  

Having regard to the European Economic Area (“EEA”) Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and 
Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 
20181,  

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,  

HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING OPINION:  

1.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  European  Commission 
launched  the  formal  process  towards  the  adoption  of  its  draft 
implementing decision (“draft decision”) on the adequate protection of personal data in the Republic 
of Korea under the Personal Information Protection Act pursuant to the GDPR on 16 June 20212. 

On the same date, the European Commission  asked for the opinion  of the European Data Protection 
Board (“EDPB”)3. The EDPB’s assessment of the adequacy of the level of protection afforded  in the 
Republic of Korea has been made on the basis of the examination of the draft decision itself as well as 
on the basis of an analysis of the documentation made available4 by the European Commission.  

The EDPB focused on the assessment of both, the general GDPR aspects of the draft decision and the 
access  by  public  authorities  to  personal  data  transferred  from  the  EEA  for  the  purposes  of  law 
enforcement and national security, including  the legal remedies available to individuals  in the EEA. 
The EDPB also assessed  whether the safeguards provided  under  the  Korean legal framework are in 
place and effective.  

The EDPB has used as main reference for this work its GDPR Adequacy Referential5 (“GDPR Adequacy 
Referential”) adopted in February 2018 and the EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on  the European 
Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures6.  

1.1. Areas of convergence   

5. 

The EDPB’s key objective is to give an opinion to the European Commission  on the adequacy of the 
level of protection afforded to individuals whose personal data is transferred to the Republic of Korea. 

                                                             
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 See press release https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_2964. 
3 Ibid. 
4 The EDPB based its analysis on official translations prepared by the Korean government. 
5  WP254,  GDPR  Adequacy  Referential,  6  February  2018, 
(endorsed  by 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/general-guidance/endorsed-wp29-guidelines).   
6  See  EDPB  Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures, 
adopted 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/preporki/recommendations-022020-european-essential-guarantees_en. 

the  EDPB, 

November 

2020, 

see 

on 

10 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

It is important to recognise that the EDPB does not expect the Korean data protection framework to 
replicate European data protection law. 

6. 

However, the EDPB recalls that, to be considered as providing an adequate level of protection, Article 
45 GDPR and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter “CJEU”) require 
the third country’s legislation to be aligned with the essence of the fundamental principles enshrined 
in the GDPR. In this context, the Korean data protection framework presents numerous similarities to 
the European  data protection framework, having  one  main  piece of  legislation covering  both, the 
public and the private sector, and which is completed by sector-specific legislative acts. 

7.  With regards to the content, the EDPB notes  key areas of  alignment between the GDPR framework 
and the Korean data protection framework with regard to certain core provisions such as, for example, 
concepts  (e.g., “personal  information”,  “processing”,  “data  subject”);  grounds  for  lawful  and  fair 
processing  for  legitimate  purposes;  purpose  limitation;  data  quality  and  proportionality;  data 
retention, security and confidentiality; transparency; and special categories of data.  

8. 

In addition to the above, the EDPB welcomes the efforts made by the European Commission  and the 
Korean authorities to ensure that the Republic of Korea provides  an adequate level of protection to 
that of the GDPR through the adoption of Notifications by the Korean supervisory authority (applicable 
not only  to personal data transferred from the EEA to Korea) with the aim to fill in the gaps between 
the GDPR and the Korean data protection framework. In this context, the EDPB wishes to highlight the 
relevance of these Notifications for the assessment of the adequacy of the Republic of Korea noting, 
for  example,  that they  provide  relevant clarifications  on  some  important  safeguards,  inter  alia  in 
relation  to  the  scope  of  application  of  the  exemptions  from  the  PIPA  for  the  processing  of 
pseudonymised  personal  information  for  scientific,  research  and  statistical  purposes,  onward 
transfers and the rules applicable in the context of access to data by public authorities. 

1.2. Challenges  

9.  While the EDPB has identified many aspects of the Korean data protection framework to be essentially 
equivalent to the European data protection framework, it has also concluded  that there are certain 
aspects  that may  require  a  closer  look  and  clarification. Specifically,  the  EDPB considers  that the 
following items should be further assessed to ensure that the essentially equivalent level of protection 
is met, and that they should be closely monitored by the European Commission. 

1.2.1. General  

10. 

The EDPB takes  note that the  Notification  No 2021-1  has  the status of  an administrative  rule with 
legally  binding  force on  the personal  information  controller in  the sense  that any  violation  of th[e] 
Notification may be regarded as a violation of the relevant provisions  of PIPA7. However, considering 
that the Notification  does  not  include  additional  rules  per se  but  rather clarifications  on  how  the 
statutory text of PIPA should  be understood to apply and in light of its overall importance particularly 
with respect  to the pseudonymisation  provisions  under PIPA  which  the EDPB understands  are the 
object  of  ongoing  judicial  cases,    the  EDPB  invites  the  European  Commission  to  provide  further 
information on the binding nature, the enforceability and validity of Notification No 2021-1 and would 
recommend  an  attentive  monitoring  of  its  respect  in  practice,  in  particular  with  regard  to  its 
application  not  only  by  the  Korean  supervisory  authority  but  also  by  courts,  especially  where the 
equivalent level of protection afforded by  the Korean legal framework is based on  the clarifications 
provided for therein.  

                                                             
7 See Section I of Annex I of the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

1.2.2. General data protection aspects   

11. 

In relation  to the scope  of  application of  the adequacy decision,  the  EDPB notes  that it will  cover 
transfers from the EEA legal framework to both, public and private “personal information controllers” 
falling under the scope  of the PIPA. The EDPB understands that entities acting as processors within 
the meaning of the GDPR are included in this term, however, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it 
invites  the  European  Commission  to  make  it  clearer  that  the  adequacy  decision  will  also  cover 
transfers to ”processors” in Korea. 

12.  An  important aspect  that  the  EDPB would  like  to  call  the  attention to  relates  to  the  concept  of 
pseudonymised  information in the Korean data protection framework. Under Korean law, exemptions 
from  a number  of  relevant provisions,  including  those  on  individual  data subject  rights  and  data 
retention, apply to the processing of pseudonymised personal information. According to the European 
Commission,  this  is  only  the case where pseudonymised  personal  information  is  processed  for the 
purposes  of statistics, scientific research or archiving in the public interest. However, this assertion is 
mainly supported by Notification No 2021-1 which makes the already mentioned need for additional 
information  about  and  the  monitoring  of  the  binding  nature,  enforceability  and  validity  of  this 
Notification highly relevant in this context. In addition, the EDPB invites the European Commission  to 
further assess the impact of pseudonymisation  under Korean law and, most importantly, how it may 
affect the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects whose personal data is transferred to the 
Republic  of  Korea  under  the  adequacy  decision.  In  particular,  the  EDPB  calls  on  the  European 
Commission  to assess further the derogations contained in Article 28(7) PIPA and Article 40(3) CIA and 
to attentively monitor their application and relevant case law in order to ensure that the data subject 
rights are not be unduly  restricted when  personal  data transferred under the adequacy decision  is 
processed for these purposes.  

13. 

Further, the EDPB notes that under  Korean  law a right to withdraw  consent  exists  only  in  specific 
circumstances and therefore invites the European Commission  to further assess the impact of a lack 
of  a general right to withdraw consent  and to  provide  further assurances  so  as  to ensure  than an 
essential level  of data protection is guaranteed at all times also, where necessary, by clarifying the 
role of the right to suspension  under PIPA in the absence of a general right to withdraw consent. 

14.  With regard to onward transfers, the EDPB acknowledges that informed consent of the data subject 
will  be  generally  used  as  a  basis  for  data  transfers  from  a  Korean-based  personal  information 
controller to a third country-based recipient and that Notification No 2021-1 envisages that individuals 
must be informed  about the third country to which their data will be provided. However, the EDPB 
invites the European Commission  to ensure that the information  to be provided  to the data subject 
also  includes  information  on  the possible  risks  of  transfers  arising from  the absence  of  adequate 
protection in  the third  country as well as  the absence  of appropriate safeguards. Furthermore, the 
EDPB would welcome reassurances in the adequacy decision that personal data will not be transferred 
from Korean personal information controllers  to a third country in any situation in which under the 
GDPR valid consent could not be provided, e.g. because of an imbalance of power. 

15.  With regard to the appointment of  the members of  the Korean supervisory  authority, although the 
formal procedure would be in line with GDPR and therefore meet the test of equivalence with the EEA 
legal framework, the EDPB would  welcome the European Commission  to monitor any developments 
that might affect the independence of the members of the South Korean supervisory  authority. 

16.  Regarding the budget, again  based  on  the  information  provided  by  the  European  Commission,  no 
reference is made to the specificities of  the staff assigned to the  PIPC nor to the financial resources 
made available to it. The EDPB would therefore welcome additional information in the draft decision 
on these two relevant topics. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

1.2.3. On the access by public authorities to data transferred to the  Republic of Korea 

17. 

The EDPB has also  analysed the Korean legal framework with respect to government access for  law 
enforcement and national security purposes to personal data transferred from the EEA to Korea. While 
acknowledging the representations and assurances provided by the Korean government, as out lined 
in Annex II of the draft decision, the EDPB has identified a number of aspects that require clarification 
or raise concerns. 

18. 

The EDPB notes that PIPA's provisions  apply  without limitation in the area of law enforcement. The 
EDPB also notes that data processing  in the area of national security is subject to a more limited set 
of provisions  enshrined in PIPA.  

19.  With regard to the voluntary disclosure  of  personal information by  telecommunication providers  to 
national security authorities the EDPB is concerned that the relationship of Section 3 of Annex I of the 
draft decision which specifies that providers in principle have to notify the concerned individual when 
they voluntarily  comply  with a request, and  Article 58(1) lit. 2  PIPA, i.e., the  partial exemption  for 
national security purposes, is unclear. This could render information requirements ineffective, making 
it considerably  more difficult  for  data subjects  to assert their data protection rights especially with 
regard to judicial redress. 

20.  While  the  draft  decision  does  not  explicitly  say  so,  the  EDPB understands  from  the  explanations 
provided  by  the  European  Commission  that the  Korean  legal  framework  does  not  allow  for  the 
interception of telecommunication data in bulk. Therefore, the recent case law of the European Court 
of  Human  Rights  ("ECtHR") on  bulk  interception  regimes  would  not  be  directly  relevant  for  the 
assessment of the level of data protection in Korea. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

The draft decision does  not contain any information on the legal framework for onward tra nsfers in 
the  area  of  national  security.  While  the  EDPB  understood  that,  in  the  view  of  the  European 
Commission, onward transfers for national security purposes are sufficiently  regulated by the general 
safeguards  and  principles  following  from  the  constitutional  framework  and  PIPA,  the  EDPB  is 
concerned as to whether this can be considered to meet the requirements of preciseness and clarity 
of  the  law  and  enshrines  effective  and  enforceable  safeguards.  The  safeguards  the  European 
Commission  refers to are of  a very  general nature and do  not address, in  a legal basis,  the specific 
circumstances and conditions  under which onward transfers for national security purposes  may take 
place.  In  this  context,  the  EDPB also  notes  that the  European  Commission  did  not  consider  the 
existence of international agreements concluded  between the Republic of Korea and third countries 
or international organisations that may provide for specific provisions  for the international transfer of 
personal data by law enforcement and/or intelligence services to third countries. The EDPB considers 
that the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral agreements with third countries for the purposes of law 
enforcement or intelligence cooperation is likely to affect the Korean data protection legal framework 
as assessed. 

The EDPB notes that the oversight of criminal law enforcement as well as national security authorities 
is ensured by a combination of different internal and external bodies, in particular the PIPC, which is 
endowed with sufficient executive powers. 

Effective remedies and redress require that data subjects are able to turn to a competent body that 
meets the requirements of  Article 47 of  the Charter of  Fundamental rights of  the European Union 
(“the Charter”), i.e., which is competent to determine that a data processing is taking place, to verify 
the lawfulness of  the processing, and which has enforceable remedial powers in the event the data 
processing  is unlawful.  Against this  background, the EDPB asks  the European Commission  to clarify 
whether a  complaint  with  the  PIPC  or  any  action  before  a court  is  subject  to  substantive  and/or 
procedural requirements, such as a burden of proof, and whether individuals in the EEA would be able 
to meet such precondition. 

Adopted 

 

7 

 

1.3. Conclusion  

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

The EDPB considers  that this adequacy decision is of paramount importance also taking into account 
that – with the exceptions  highlighted in the opinion  – it will cover transfers both, in the public and 
private sector. 

The EDPB welcomes the efforts made by the European Commission  and the Korean authorities to align 
the Korean legal framework with the European one. The improvements intended to be brought in by 
Notification  No  2021-1  to  bridge  some  of  the  differences  between  the  two frameworks  are very 
important and well received. However, the EDPB notices that a number of concerns, including with 
regard to  Notification  No 2021-1,  coupled  with  the need  for  further clarifications  on  other  issues, 
remain, and  it  recommends  the  European  Commission  to  address  the  concerns  and  requests  for 
clarification raised by the EDPB and provide further information and explanations regarding the issues 
raised in this opinion. 

2.  INTRODUCTION 

2.1. Korean data protection framework  

The  main  piece  of  legislation  governing  data protection  in  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  the  Personal 
Information Protection Act (Act No. 10465  of 29  March 2011, last amended by  Act No. 16930 of  4 
February 2020, “PIPA”). It is supplemented by an Enforcement Decree (Presidential Decree No. 23169 
of  29  September  2011,  last  amended  by  Presidential  Decree No.  30892  of  4  August  2020,  “PIPA 
Enforcement Decree”), which is legally binding and enforceable. 

In addition to PIPA, the Korean data protection framework includes regulatory “Notifications” issued 
by  the  Korean  supervisory  authority,  the  Personal  Information  Protection  Commission  (“PIPC”), 
providing  further  rules  on  the  interpretation and  application  of  PIPA.  Recently, the  PIPC  adopted 
Notification No 2021-1 of 21 January 2021 (which amended the previous Notification No 2020-10 of 1 
September  2020,  hereafter  “Notification  No  2021-1”)  on  the  interpretation,  application  and 
enforcement of certain provisions  of PIPA. More specifically, this Notification resulted from adequacy 
discussions  held between Korean authorities and the European Commission. It contains clarifications 
on the application of specific provisions  of PIPA, including concerning the processing of personal data 
transferred  to  Korea  based  on  the  envisaged  adequacy  decision8  and  it  has  the  status  of  an 
administrative rule with legally binding force on the personal information controller in the sense that 
any violation of th[e] Notification may be regarded as a violation of the relevant provisions of PIPA9. In 
this context, the EDPB would like to note that, despite being referred to as “Supplementary Rules” in 
the draft decision,  the Notification does  not include  additional rules  per se but rather explanations 
aimed at clarifying how the statutory text of PIPA should  be understood  to apply, in particular with 
respect to data transferred from the EEA. Against this background, the EDPB would recommend an 
attentive monitoring of the respect of Notification No 2021-1 in practice, in particular with regard to 
their application  not  only  by  the PIPC  but  also  by  courts, especially  where the  equivalent  level  of 
protection afforded by the Korean legal framework is based on  the clarifications provided for in the 
Notification No 2021-1. 

28.  Other  relevant  data  protection  laws  in  the  Korean  legislative  framework  lay  down  rules  to  the 

processing of personal data in specific industry sectors such as: 

- 

The Act on the Use and Protection of Credit Information (“CIA”), including its Enforcement 
Decree  (“CIA  Enforcement  Decree”),  which  lay  down  specific  rules  applicable  to 

                                                             
8 See Section I of Annex I of the draft decision. 
9 Ibid. 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

commercial operators  and specialised  entities (such  as credit  rating agencies, financial 
institutions)  when they process  personal credit information  necessary to determine the 
creditworthiness of parties to financial or commercial transactions; 

- 

The Act on  the Promotion of  Information and Communications  Network Utilisation  and 
Data Protection (“Network Act”); and 

- 

The Communications Privacy Protection Act (“CPPA”) 

29. 

In the area of government access, apart from the relevant provisions  contained in the PIPA and the 
CPPA, the EDPB has considered some other pieces of legislation, i.e., the Criminal Procedure Act 
(“CPA”), the Telecommunications Business  Act (“TBA”), the Act on Reporting and Using Specified 
Financial Transaction Information (“ARUSFTI”) and the National Intelligence Service Act (“NISA”). 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

2.2. Scope of the EDPB’s assessment   

The draft decision  of  the European  Commission  is  the result  of  an assessment  of  the  Korean data 
protection  framework,  followed  by  discussions  with  the  Korean  government.  In  accordance with 
Article 70(1)(s)  GDPR, the  EDPB is  expected  to  provide  an independent  opinion  on  the  European 
Commission’s  findings, identify  insufficiencies  in  the adequacy framework, if any, and endeavour to 
make proposals to address these.  

In  order  to  avoid  repetition  and  with  the  aim  to  helping  in  the  assessment  of  the  Korean  legal 
framework, the EDPB has chosen to focus on some specific points presented in the draft decision and 
provide its analysis and opinion on them, refraining from reproducing most of the factual findings and 
assessments where the EDPB has no indication to assume that the law of the Republic of Korea would 
not be essentially equivalent to the law in the  EEA. In addition, in line  with the jurisprudence of the 
CJEU, a very important part of the analysis  covers the legal regime of national security access to the 
personal data transferred to the Republic of Korea, and the practice of its national security apparatus.  

In its assessment, the EDPB took into  account the applicable European data protection framework, 
including Articles 7, 8 and 47 of the Charter, respectively protecting the right to private and family life, 
the right to protection of personal data and the right to an effective remedy and fair trial, and Article 
8 ECHR protecting the right to private and family life. In addition to the above, the EDPB considered 
the requirements of the GDPR as well as the relevant case law.  

The  objective  of  this  exercise  is  to  provide  the  European  Commission  with  an  opinion  on  the 
assessment  of  the  adequacy  of  the  level  of  protection  in  the  Republic  of  Korea. The  concept  of 
“adequate  level  of  protection”  which  already  existed  under  Directive  95/46,  has  been  further 
developed by the CJEU. It is important to recall the standard set by the CJEU in Schrems I, namely that 
–  while  the  “level  of  protection”  in  the  third  country  must  be  “essentially  equivalent”  to  that 
guaranteed in the EU – “the means to which that third country has recourse, in this connection, for the 
purpose of such a level of protection may differ from those employed within the EU”10. Therefore, the 
objective is  not to mirror point  by point the European legislation, but to establish the essential and 
core  requirements  of  the  legislation  under  examination.  Adequacy  can  be  achieved  through  a 
combination  of rights for the data subjects  and obligations on  those who process  personal  data, or 
who  exercise control  over such  processing  and supervision  by  independent  bodies.  However, data 
protection  rules  are only  effective  if  they are enforceable  and  followed  in  practice. It is  therefore 
necessary to consider not only  the content of  the rules  applicable to personal  data transferred to a 
third country or an international organisation, but also the system in place to ensure the effectiveness 

                                                             
10 C-362/14, Maximilian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, 6 October 2015, ECLI:EU:C:2015:650, paras. 
73-74. 

Adopted 

 

9 

 

of such rules. Efficient enforcement mechanisms are of paramount importance to the effectiveness of 
data protection rules11.   

2.3. General comments and concerns   

2.3.1. International commitments entered into by the Republic of Korea 

34.  According  to  Article  45(2)(c)  GDPR  and  the  GDPR  Adequacy  Referential12,  when  assessing  the 
adequacy  of  the  level  of  protection  of  a  third  country,  the  European  Commission  shall  take  into 
account, among others, the international commitments the third country has entered into, or other 
obligations  arising  from  the  third  country's  participation  in  multilateral  or  regional  systems,  in 
particular  in  relation  to  the  protection  of  personal  data, as  well  as  the  implementation  of  such 
obligations. 

35.  Korea is  a party to several international agreements that guarantee the right to privacy, such as the 
International Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  (Article  17),  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
Persons  with  Disabilities  (Article  22)  and  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  (Article  16). 
Furthermore, Korea, as an OECD member, adheres to the OECD Privacy Framework, in particular the 
Guidelines governing the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data.  

36. 

The  EDPB  also  takes  note  of  the  participation  of  Korea  as  Observer  State  in  the  work  of  the 
Consultative Committee of the Council of Europe Convention 108(+), although it has not yet decided 
whether to accede. 

2.3.2 Scope of the adequacy decision 

37.  According to Recital 5 of the draft decision, the European Commission  concludes that the Republic of 
Korea  ensures  an  adequate level  of  protection  for  personal  data transferred from  a controller  or 
processor in the Union to personal information controllers (e.g. natural or legal persons, organisations, 
public institutions) falling within the scope of application of  PIPA, with the exception of processing of 
personal data for missionary activities by religious organisations and for the nomination of candidates 
by  political  parties13,  or  the  processing  of  personal  credit  information  pursuant  to  the  CIA  by 
controllers that are subject to oversight by the Financial Services Commission.   

38. 

The EDPB notes that the adequacy decision will cover transfers from the EEA legal framework to both, 
public  and private “personal information  controllers” falling under  the scope  of the PIPA. The EDPB 
understands  that entities acting as processors  within the meaning of  the GDPR are also covered by 
the term “personal information  controller” considering that the PIPA will apply equally to them and 
that specific  obligations apply  when a personal  information controller (the “outsourcer”) engages a 
third party for the processing of personal information (the “outsourcee”), however, in order to avoid 
misunderstandings, the EDPB invites the European Commission  to make it clearer that the adequacy 
decision will also cover transfers to ”processors” in Korea and that the level of protection of personal 
data transferred from the EEA will not be undermined also in these cases. 

39.  Besides, taking into account that the adequacy decision  also covers  personal data transfers between 
public  bodies,  the  EDPB understands  that  this  will  also  cover  transfers  between  data protection 
supervisory  authorities and, for the sake of  clarity, invites  the European  Commission  to specifically 
address this issue. 

                                                             
11 WP254, p.2. 
12 WP254, p.2. 
13 For more context see below under section 3.1.2 of this opinion. 

Adopted 

 

10 

 

40. 

Furthermore, with regards to the entities  excluded  from the  scope  of  application of  the adequacy 
decision, the EDPB would like  to emphasise  that the adequacy decision  could benefit from a clearer 
identification of the ”commercial organisations” that are subject to the oversight of the PIPC (Article 
45(3) CIA) so that EEA-based controllers and processors may easily assess  whether the importer falls 
also under the scope of application of the adequacy decision before transferring data to entities falling 
under the scope of application of the CIA or, at least, be alerted of the need to assess this aspect. 

41.  With  respect  to  the  scope  of  the  adequacy  decision,  the  EDPB  understood  from  the  additional 
explanations of the European Commission  that the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (“KOFIU”), which 
is  established  under  the  Financial  Services  Commission  and  oversees  the  prevention  of  money 
laundering and terrorist financing pursuant to the ARUSFTI 14, is also excluded from the scope, as it has 
only  jurisdiction  over financial institutions  which  are themselves  not covered by  the draft decision. 
However, Article 1(2)(c) of the draft decision excludes from its scope only those personal information 
controllers that are subject  to oversight by  the Financial  Services Commission  and process  personal 
credit information under the CIA. Against this background, the EDPB asks the European Commission 
to clarify whether the KOFIU and the data processing activities undertaken by KOFIU itself fall under 
the draft decision.  

3.  GENERAL DATA PROTECTION ASPECTS  

3.1. Content  principles  

42.  Chapter 3 of the GDPR Adequacy Referential is dedicated to the “Content Principles”. A third country’s 
system must contain them in order to regard the level of protection provided as essentially equivalent 
to the one guaranteed by EU legislation.  

43.  Although  the  right  to  the  protection  of  personal  data  is  not  expressly  enshrined  in  the  Korean 
Constitution  per se, it is recognised as a basic right, derived from the constitutional rights to human 
dignity and the pursuit of happiness (Article 10), private life (Article 17) and privacy of communications 
(Article 18). This  has been  confirmed  by  both, the Supreme  Court and  the Constitutional  Court, as 
referenced in the European Commission’s  draft decision15. The EDPB takes notes of this recognition 
since  it derives  from  it  that data protection as  a basic  right, according to Article 37  of  the Korean 
Constitution,  “may  only  be  restricted  by  law  and  when  necessary  for  national  security,  or  the 
maintenance  of  law  and  order  or  for  public  welfare”  and  that  “even when  such  restrictions  are 
imposed, they may not affect the essence of the freedom or right”. 

44.  According  to  the  European  Commission16,  the  Constitutional  Court  has  ruled  that  also  foreign 
nationals  are  the  subject  of  basic  rights.  As  per  the  official  representations  from  the  Korean 
government17, although  case law has  so  far not  specifically  dealt with the  right to  privacy by  non-
Korean nationals, it is widely accepted among scholars that Articles 12-22 of the Constitution set out 
“rights of  human beings”. Further, the Republic of Korea has enacted a series of laws in the area of 
data protection that provide safeguards for all individuals, irrespective of their nationality, such as the 
PIPA. In this regard, the EDPB takes note that Article 6(2) of the Constitution provides that the status 
of foreign nationals is guaranteed as prescribed by international law and treaties and of the case law 
mentioned in the draft decision according to which a ”foreigner” can be the bearer of ”basic rights”. 
Considering the relevance of the recognition of the right to data protection to “foreign nationals”, the 
EDPB calls the attention of the European Commission  on the need to keep monitoring the case law 

                                                             
14 See Annex II, section 2.2.3.1. 
15 See Recital 8 of the draft decision and the relevant case law referred to in footnote 10 of the draft decision of 
which only English summaries are available.   
16 See Recital 9 of the draft decision. 
17 Section 1.1. of Annex II of the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

11 

 

relating to  data protection  as  a  basic  right recognised  not  only  to  Korean  citizens  but  to  all  data 
subjects so as to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by the GDPR is not 
undermined when personal data are transferred to Korea under the adequacy decision. 

3.1.1. Concepts 

45.  Based on  the GDPR Adequacy  Referential, basic data protection concepts and/or  principles  should 
exist  in  the  third  country’s  legal  framework.  Although  these  do  not  have  to  mirror  the  GDPR 
terminology, they should reflect and be consistent with the concepts enshrined in the European data 
protection law. For example, the GDPR includes the following  important concepts: “personal data”, 
“processing of personal data”, “data controller”, “data processor”, “recipient” and “sensitive data”18. 

46. 

The PIPA includes  a number of  definitions  such  as, among others, those  of  “personal  information”, 
“processing” and “data subject”, which closely resemble the corresponding terms under the GDPR.  

3.1.1.1. Concept of pseudonymised data 

47.  Among  the  definitions  provided  in  the  PIPA,  Article  2(1)  PIPA  defines,  in  particular,  personal 
information  as  any of  the  following  information  relating to  a living  individual:  (a) information  that 
identifies a particular individual by his or her full name, resident registration number, image, etc. and 
(b)  information  which,  even  if  it  by  itself  does  not  identify  a  particular individual,  may  easily  be 
combined with other information to identify a particular individual. In the latter cases, whether or not 
there is ease of combination shall be determined by reasonably considering the time, cost, technology, 
etc. used to identify the individual  such as the likelihood  that the other information can be procured. 

48. 

In addition,  according to  Article  2(1)  lit.  (c)  PIPA,  also  “pseudonymised  information”  is  considered 
personal  information. Pseudonymised  information  is  defined  as information  under  items (a)  or  (b) 
above that is pseudonymised  in accordance with subparagraph 1-2 and thereby becomes incapable of 
identifying a particular individual without the use or combination of information for restoration to the 
original state. Information that is fully  anonymised  is  excluded from the scope  of application of the 
PIPA. According to Article 58(2) PIPA, the act does not apply to information that no longer identifies a 
certain  individual  when  combined  with  other  information,  reasonably  considering  time,  cost, 
technology, etc.  

49. 

The  European Commission  states in  Recital 17  of  its  draft decision  that this  corresponds  with the 
material scope of application of the GDPR and its notions of ”personal data”, ”pseudonymisation” and 
“anonymised information”. 

50.  However, according to Article 28(7) PIPA, Articles 20, 21, 27, 34(1), 35 through 37, 39(3), 39(4), 39(6) 

through 39(8) do not apply to pseudonymised  personal information.  

51. 

In  its  draft decision,  the  European  Commission  states that Article  28(7)  PIPA  is  only  applicable  to 
pseudonymised  personal  information  when it  is  processed  for  the purposes  of  statistics, scientific 
research or archiving in the public interest19. However, this does not follow directly from the letter of 
the law but from the explanations provided in Notification No 2021-120. While the EDPB acknowledges 
that an argument can be made based on the structure and rationale of  PIPA that Article 28(2) PIPA 
should  be  understood  and logically interpreted as also applying to Article 28(7) PIPA, in light of the 
importance of Notification No 2021-1 in the European Commission’s  assessment of the adequacy of 
the level of  protection of personal  data in the Republic of  Korea and to avoid any doubt,  the EDPB 

                                                             
18 WP254, p. 4. 
19 See inter alia Recital 82 of the draft decision. 
20 Section 4 of Annex I to the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

12 

 

invites the European Commission to provide further information on the binding nature, enforceability 
and validity of Notification No 2021-1 and to monitor its application in this specific context.   

52. 

In this context, the EDPB would like to recall that under the GDPR pseudonymisation is understood as 
a recommended  security  measure. In  other words,  under  the  GDPR pseudonymised  data remains 
personal data to which the GDPR fully  applies. Based on  the foregoing, the EDPB has concerns that 
the GDPR’s level of protection of pseudonymised  personal data could be undermined when personal 
data are transferred to Korea. The EDPB therefore invites the European Commission to further assess 
the  impact  of  pseudonymisation  under  the  PIPA  and,  most  importantly,  how  it  may  affect  the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects whose personal data would be transferred to the 
Republic of  Korea on  the basis of  the adequacy decision.  Hence, the EDPB calls upon  the European 
Commission  to provide assurances that the level of protection of personal data from data subjects in 
the EEA will  not be  lowered  after transfer to the  Republic of  Korea even  where the personal  data 
transferred is pseudonymised.    

3.1.1.2. Concept of personal information controller  

53.  Article 2(5) PIPA includes a definition of “personal information controller” meaning a public institution, 
legal person, organisation or individual, etc. that processes personal information directly or indirectly 
to operate personal information files “as part of its activities”. However, in the additional safeguards 
set  out  in  Notification  No  2021-1, the  term personal  information  controller  is  defined  as  a public 
institution, legal person, organisation, individual  etc. that processes personal  information directly or 
indirectly to operate the personal information files “for business purposes”. Instead, footnote 272 of 
the draft decision states the following about the notion of personal information controller: “As defined 
in  Article 2  PIPA, i.e. a  public  institution, legal  person, organisation,  individual,  etc. that processes 
personal information directly or indirectly to operate personal information files ‘for official or business 
purposes’.” 

54. 

The EDPB acknowledges that these inconsistencies may be due to the translations of the original text 
as provided  by the Korean authorities and invites the European Commission  to verify the quality and 
certainty of the translations regularly. However, the EDPB stresses the fact that, in order to be able to 
assess the essential equivalence of the level of data protection of the Korean legal framework, a clear 
understanding of the processing purposes  falling within the material scope PIPA is required. Further, 
in  this  context, the EDPB notes  that the PIPA  does  not  use  the same  terminology of  the GDPR in 
relation to the notion of “controller” and “processor” and invites the European Commission  to clarify 
the correct definition and scope of the concept of “personal information controller” and to specifically 
address  whether this  term also covers  processors  within the meaning of  the GDPR, as this directly 
affects the scope of the adequacy decision21.  

3.1.2. Partial exemptions provided for in PIPA 

55.  Article 58(1) PIPA excludes the application of parts of PIPA (i.e., Articles 15 to 57) with respect to four 
categories of personal data processing as described below. Specifically, the exemptions relate to the 
provisions  of PIPA on specific grounds for processing, certain data protection obligations, the detailed 
rules for the exercise of  individual rights as well as the rules governing dispute resolution.  However, 
the EDPB takes note that some general provisions of PIPA still remain applicable, such as those relating 
to  the data protection principles  (Article 3  PIPA) and  individual  rights (Article 4  PIPA). In addition, 
Article 58(4) PIPA sets out specific obligations on those four categories of data processing.  

56. 

Firstly, the partial exemption covers personal  information collected pursuant to the Statistics Act for 
processing by  public  institutions. The European Commission  states in Recital 27 of  its draft decision 
                                                             
21 See also para. 38 above. 

Adopted 

 

13 

 

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

that according to clarifications received from the Korean government, personal data processed in this 
context  normally  concerns  Korean  nationals  and  might  only  exceptionally  include  information  on 
foreigners, namely in the case of statistics on entry to and departure from the territory, or on foreign 
investments. According to the draft decision, however, even in these situations, such data is normally 
not transferred from controllers/processors  in the EEA but would rather be directly collected by public 
authorities in Korea. 

The  EDPB acknowledges  the  reasoning  of  the  European  Commission  on  the  exceptionality  of  the 
application of  the Statistics Act to the processing of  personal  data transferred under the adequacy 
decision;  however,  it  would  welcome  further  information  and  reassurances  about  the  specific 
safeguards that would be applied in case personal data transferred from the EEA is further collected 
pursuant to the Statistics Act for processing by public institutions, in particular relating to the exercise 
of individual rights by data subjects in line with Article 89(2) GDPR in so far as such rights are not likely 
to  render  impossible  or  seriously  impair  the  achievement  of  the  specific  purposes,  and  such 
derogations are not necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes.  

In this perspective, the application of Article 4 PIPA also to this kind of processing appears to provide 
reassurances,  however  the  EDPB would  welcome  additional  information  and  clarifications  in  the 
adequacy decision on the specific obligations imposed, in accordance with Article 58(4) PIPA, on those 
processing  activities,  namely  with  respect  to  data  minimisation,  limited  data  retention,  security 
measures and the handling of complaints.  

Secondly,  the partial exemption covers personal  information collected or requested to be provided 
for  the  analysis  of  information  related to  national  security. The  EDPB is  aware of  the  fact that in 
matters of national security, states have a broad margin of appreciation recognized by the ECtHR. The 
EDPB also  notes  that, according to  Article 37(2)  of  the  Korean Constitution,  any restriction  to  the 
freedoms  and rights, for  example, when  necessary for the protection of  national security, may not 
violate the essential aspect of that freedom or right. Further, the EDPB notes the safeguards in Section 
6  of  Notification No  2021-1  regarding the processing  of  personal  information  for  national security 
purposes  including  investigation  of  infringements  and  enforcement. However, in  this  context, the 
EDPB calls on the European Commission  to clarify further the scope of the exemptions as it wonders 
whether all  of the exemptions provided  under Article 58(1)  lit. 2 PIPA (Chapters III through VII) are 
relevant for the work of intelligence services, and whether they ensure equivalence with the necessity 
and proportionality  principles.  In particular, the EDPB invites  the European  Commission  to provide 
more  clarification  regarding under  which  circumstances  an  intelligence  service  could  rely  on  the 
exemptions.  The EDPB considers  it necessary  to  closely  monitor  the impact of  these  limitations  in 
practice, especially on the effective exercise and enforcement of data subject rights.  

Thirdly,  the  partial  exemption  applies  to  “personal  information  processed  temporarily where it  is 
urgently necessary for public safety  and security, public  health, etc.” According to  Recital 29 of the 
European Commission’s  draft decision, this category is interpreted strictly by the PIPC and applies only 
in emergencies requiring urgent action, for example, to track infectious agents, or to rescue and aid 
victims of natural disasters. 

The EDPB also emphasizes that any derogations to the level of protection for personal data should be 
interpreted strictly. At the same time, the EDPB notes that  the provision is not strictly defined and 
does  not  provide  an  exhaustive  list  of  examples  of  situations  where  the  processing  of  personal 
information  might  be  considered  “urgently  necessary”. For  example, the EDPB is  concerned  as  to 
whether international transfers of health data during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic would also fall 
within the scope of this exemption. In the light of above, the EDPB calls on the European Commission 
to provide further clarifications on the scope of this exemption and to fully monitor its application and 
scope to ensure that it does  not lead to the level of protection of personal data from the EEA being 
lowered after transfer to Korea on the basis of the adequacy decision.  

Adopted 

 

14 

 

62. 

Finally, the partial exemption applies  to personal information  collected or used for  the purposes  of 
reporting by the press, missionary activities by religious organizations, and nomination of candidates 
by  political  parties22.  With  respect  to  the  processing  of  personal  information  by  the  press  for 
journalistic  activities, the  European  Commission  states in  Recital 31  of  its  draft  decision  that the 
balancing between freedom of expression  and other rights, including the right to privacy, is provided 
by the Act on Arbitration and Remedies, etc. for Damage Caused by  Press Reports (hereafter “Press 
Act”), and presents specific safeguards that follow from the Press Act. The EDPB would, however, call 
on European Commission  to fully monitor this exemption and the relevant case law in order to ensure 
that an equivalent level of data protection is ensured also in practice in the Korean legal framework.  

3.1.3 Grounds for lawful  and fair  processing for legitimate  purposes 

63.  According to  the GDPR Adequacy  Referential, in  line  with the  GDPR, data must  be  processed  in  a 
lawful, fair and legitimate manner. The legal basis, under which personal data may be lawfully, fairly 
and legitimately processed should  be set out in a sufficiently clear manner. The European framework 
acknowledges several such  legitimate grounds including for example, provisions  in national law, the 
consent of the data subject, performance of  a contract or legitimate interests of the data controller 
or of a third party which does not override the interests of the individual. 

64. 

65. 

Following  a similar structure as the GDPR, PIPA first introduces  the principle  of lawfulness,  fairness 
and  transparency  at the  beginning  (Article  3(1)  and  (2)  PIPA),  laying  out  the  specific  rules  for  its 
application later on (Articles 15 to 19 PIPA). Specifically, Article 15 PIPA includes  a catalogue of legal 
grounds on  which personal information  controllers may base the collection of personal  information 
and  use  it  within  the scope  of  the purpose  collection. These  legal grounds  consist  of  (1)  the data 
subject’s  informed  consent;  (2)  statutory  authorization  or  necessity  for  compliance  with  a  legal 
obligation;  (3)  necessity  for  the  performance  of  a  public  institution’s  duties;  (4)  necessity  for  the 
execution or performance of  a contract with a data subject; (5)  necessity  for the protection of life, 
bodily  or  property  interests of  the  data subject  or  a third  party from  imminent  danger (and  prior 
consent  cannot be obtained); (6)  necessity  to attain a justifiable  interest of  a personal  information 
controller which is superior to that of a data subject. 

In addition, Article 17 PIPA lists the legal grounds applicable for sharing personal information with a 
third  party  which  include  (1)  the  data subject’s  informed  consent;  (2)  statutory authorization  or 
necessity  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation;  (3)  necessity  for  the  performance  of  a  public 
institution’s duties; and (4) necessity for the protection of life, bodily  or property interests of the data 
subject or  a third party from imminent danger (and  prior consent cannot be obtained). Even in the 
absence of the data subject’s consent, the sharing of personal information is allowed where this occurs 
within the scope reasonably related to the purposes  for which the personal information was initially 
collected (Article 17(4) PIPA). 

66.  Article 18 PIPA lays down  specific  rules for  the use  and sharing of  personal information  where this 
occurs  out  of  the scope  of  the  initial  purpose  of  collection  or  provision.  Among  other,  here  too, 
consent is one such authorizing rule.  

67.  While acknowledging the substantial similarity of Korean law to the GDPR with respect to the principle 
of lawfulness  and the existence of a general right to suspension  (Article 37 PIPA), which can also be 
invoked  where personal data is processed  on the basis  of consent,  the EDPB would  like to note the 

                                                             
22 Accordingly, the processing of personal information by religious organisations for their missionary activities 
and the processing of personal information by political parties in the context of the nomination of candidates 
are also excluded from the scope of the adequacy decision. See also para. 37 above in section 2.3.2. 

Adopted 

 

15 

 

absence of a general right to withdraw consent under PIPA23. In light of the importance of consent as 
a  legal  ground  in  all  of  the  above-described  scenarios,  and  taking  into  consideration  the  role  of 
individual  rights in a data protection legal system for the purposes  of safeguarding the data subjects’ 
fundamental rights and freedoms, the EDPB invites the European Commission  to further assess the 
impact of  the lack of a general right to withdraw consent under Korean law  and to provide further 
assurances to ensure that an essential level of data protection as the one provided for under the GDPR 
is guaranteed at all times also,  where necessary,  by clarifying the role of the right to suspension in 
this specific context. 

3.1.4 The purpose limitation principle 

68. 

The  GDPR  Adequacy  Referential, in  line  with  the  GDPR,  provides  that  personal  data  should  be 
processed for a specific  purpose and subsequently  used only  insofar as this is not incompatible with 
the purpose of the processing. 

69.  Pursuant to Article 3(1) and  (2) PIPA, personal information  controllers shall  specify  and explicit the 
purposes  of processing and ensure that the processing is compatible with these purposes. While this 
principle  is  confirmed  in  other  provisions  (i.e., Articles  15(1), 18(1)  and 19(1)  PIPA),  processing  for 
“reasonably related” purposes  is allowed in certain circumstances (see Article 17(4) PIPA)24 as well as 
the out-of-purpose  use and provision  of personal information (see Articles 18 and 19 PIPA)25. 

70. 

The EDPB understands that in case of transfers of personal data from the EEA to the Republic of Korea 
on  the  basis  of  the  adequacy  decision,  the  purpose  of  collection  of  the  EEA-based  controllers 
constitutes the purpose for which the data is transferred applicable to the processing by the receiving 
Korean-based personal  information controller. A change of purpose  by the Korean-based controller 
would only be allowed as provided for in Article 18(2) lit. 1-3 PIPA, “unless doing so is likely to unfairly 
infringe on the interest of a data subject or a third party”26. In this context, the EDPB acknowledges 
the  European  Commission’s  statement in  Recital 55  of  the  draft decision  that, where  changes  of 
purpose  are authorised by law, such laws have to respect the fundamental right to privacy and data 
protection. However, the EDPB notes that no specific information has been provided to sustain this 
particular  statement, for  example,  no  reference  has  been  made  to  Article  37  of  the  (Korean) 
Constitution.  Therefore, the EDPB calls  on the European Commission  to provide  further assurances 
and  guarantees in  the  draft decision  to  ensure  that  any  laws  authorizing  a change  of  processing 
purpose are required to respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects to privacy and 
data protection. 

3.1.5 The data quality and proportionality principle 

71. 

The GDPR Adequacy Referential states that data should  be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to 
date. The data should  be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes  for which 
they are processed. 

                                                             
23 Even though data subjects may deny consent in certain circumstances, see for example Article 18(3) 5 PIPA. 
By contrast, the right to withdraw consent seems to exist only in specific cases ; pursuant to Article 27(1) 2 PIPA 
data subjects have the right to withdraw consent where they do not wish their personal information to be 
transferred to a third party owing to the transfer of some or all of the personal information controller’s business, 
a merger, etc.; pursuant to Article 39(7) PIPA users may withdraw consent to the collection, use and provision 
of personal information at any ti me from information and communications service provider, etc.; and pursuant 
to Article 37 CIA an individual credit information subject may revoke the consent which had been provided to a 
credit information provider/user. 
24 Whereby purpose compatibility must be ascertained in advance on the basis of the criteria laid down in Article 
14-2 PIPA Enforcement Decree. 
25 See also above under para. 66. 
26 Article 18(2) PIPA. 

Adopted 

 

16 

 

72.  Under  PIPA,  personal  information  controllers  must  ensure  that  personal  information  is  accurate, 
complete, and up to date to the extent necessary in relation to the purposes  for which the personal 
information is  processed (Article 3(3) PIPA). Personal information  controllers are required to collect 
as little personal information as necessary to achieve a given purpose. They bear the burden of proof 
in this regard (Article 16(1) PIPA). 

73.  Against this background, the EDPB shares the European Commission’s assessment with respect to the 

essential equivalence of the level of protection under PIPA vis-à-vis the GDPR in this regard. 

3.1.6 Data retention principle 

74.  According to the GDPR Adequacy Referential, as a general rule data should be kept for no longer than 
is necessary for the purposes  for which the personal data is processed. As per Article 21(1) PIPA, this 
principle  exists in  Korean law as well. Under  PIPA, personal information  controllers  are required to 
destroy  personal  information  without delay  when  the  personal  information  becomes  unnecessary 
upon  expiry  of  the  retention period  or  upon  achievement of  the  intended  purpose  of  processing, 
unless statutory retention periods apply. 

75. 

The  EDPB  is,  however,  concerned  as  to  the  fact  that  Article  21(1)  PIPA  is  not  applicable  to 
pseudonymised  personal information. The EDPB takes note of the fact that, according to Section 4(iii) 
of  Notification  No  2021-1,  “[w]here  a  personal  information  controller  processes  pseudonymised 
information for the purpose of compiling statistics, scientific research, preservation of public records, 
etc. and  if  the pseudonymised  information  has  not  be [sic]  destroyed once the specific  purpose  of 
processing  has  been fulfilled  in  line  with Article 37  of  the Constitution  and  Article 3  (Principles  for 
Protecting Personal Information) of the Act, it shall anonymise the information with a view to ensure 
that  it  no  longer  identifies  a  specific  individual,  alone  or  when  combined  with  other  information, 
reasonably considering time, cost, technology, etc., in accordance with Article 58(2) PIPA.” Given, here 
too,  the  importance  of  Notification  2021-1  and  with  a  view  to  having  legal  certainty  as  to  the 
equivalence of the level of protection of personal data transferred to the Republic of Korea under the 
adequacy  decision,  the  EDPB reiterates  its  call  on  the  European  Commission  to  provide  further 
information  specifically  on  how  Notification  No  2021-1  is  made  binding  and  its  enforceability  and 
validity is ensured27.   

3.1.7 The security and confidentiality  principle 

76.  As described in the GDPR Adequacy Referential, the security and confidentiality principle requires data 
processing entities to make sure that personal data is processed in a manner that ensures its security, 
including  protection  against  unauthorized  or  unlawful  processing  and  against  accidental  loss, 
destruction or damage, by using  appropriate technical or organisational measures. The level of the 
security should  take into consideration the state of the art and the related costs.  

77. 

The European Commission  has identified a similar principle of data security in Article 3(4) PIPA, which 
is further specified in  Article 29 PIPA. In addition, data security provisions  apply where the personal 
information  controller  engages an  “outsourcee”. The  security  of  the  processing  must  be  ensured 
through  technical  and  managerial safeguards,  which  must  also  be  included  in  the  binding  data 
processing agreement (Article 26 PIPA and Article 28 PIPA Enforcement Decree). Further, under PIPA 
specific obligations apply in the event of a data breach, including the obligation to notify affected data 
subjects  and  the  supervisory  authority  where  the  number  of  affected  data  subjects  exceeds  the 
applicable threshold  (Article 34 PIPA in conjunction  with Article 39 PIPA Presidential Decree), except 
where  the  affected  data  is  pseudonymised  personal  information  processed  for  the  purposes  of 
                                                             
27 See  also above para. 51 under section 3.1.1.1 of this opinion, as well as para. 52 for the EDPB’s general 
concerns regarding the impact of pseudonymisation under Korean law. 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

statistics, scientific research or archiving in  the public  interest (Article 28(7)  PIPA). Here, too28, the 
EDPB is concerned with the wide reaching exemptions for pseudonymised  information and reiterates 
its call on the European Commission  to further assess this aspect to ensure that a level of protection 
essentially equivalent is provided  for under Korean law29.    

78.  Notwithstanding, in  sum,  the  EDPB is  satisfied  with  the  European  Commission’s  assessment  and 
conclusion  regarding the essential equivalence of Korean law with respect to the principle of security 
and confidentiality. 

3.1.8 The transparency principle 

79.  Based on  Article 5(1)(a)  GDPR, transparency  is  a  fundamental principle  of  the  EU data protection 
system. Recital 39 GDPR outlines the crucial function of this  principle by  stating that “[i]t should be 
transparent to natural persons that personal data concerning them are collected, used, consulted or 
otherwise processed and to what extent the personal data are or will be processed. (...) Natural persons 
should  be made aware of risks, rules, safeguards  and rights in relation to the processing of personal 
data and how to exercise their rights in relation to such processing.” 

80. 

81. 

82. 

The GDPR Adequacy Referential explicitly names “transparency” as one of the content principles to 
be taken into account when evaluating the essential equivalence of the level of protection provided 
for by a third country. More specifically, it states that “[e]ach individual  should be informed of all the 
main  elements  of  the  processing  of  his/her  personal  data  in  a  clear,  easily  accessible,  concise, 
transparent and intelligible form. Such information should include the purpose of the processing, the 
identity of the data controller, the rights made available to him/her and other information insofar as 
this  is  necessary  to  ensure  fairness.  Under  certain  conditions,  some  exceptions  to  this  right  for 
information  can  exist, such  as  for  example, to  safeguard  criminal  investigations, national  security, 
judicial independence and judicial proceedings or other important objectives of general public interest 
as is the case with Article 23 GDPR.” 

Similarly  as  is  the case with the  GDPR, under PIPA a general transparency principle  exits requiring 
personal  information  controllers  to  make  public  their privacy  policy  and  other matters related to 
personal  information  processing  (Article  3(5)  PIPA).  Specific  information  obligations  apply  where 
personal information controllers seek to obtain consent from the data subjects for the collection and 
processing of personal information (Article 15(2) PIPA), for the sharing of personal information with a 
third party (Article 17(2) PIPA) and for out-of-purpose  processing (Article 18(3) PIPA). It is noteworthy 
that these information obligations also apply mutatis mutandis to the outsourcee (Article 26(7) PIPA). 

The EDPB acknowledges and welcomes the additional safeguards in Section 3(i) and (ii) of Notification 
No 2021-130 relating to information to be provided  to data subjects when their data are transferred 
by an EEA entity taking into account the fact that pursuant to  Article 20(1) PIPA, when data has not 
been obtained from the data subject, data subjects  are informed only  upon request while a general 
right  to  be  informed  is  only  recognized  pursuant  to  Article  20(2)  PIPA  where  certain  processing 
operations exceed thresholds set forth in the PIPA Enforcement Decree (Article 15(2)). 

83.  Overall,  the  EDPB  is  satisfied  that the  level  of  protection  under  Korean  law  with  respect  to  the 

transparency principle is essentially equivalent to that provided under the GDPR.  

                                                             
28 As already laid down in paras. 51-52 above and section 3.1.1.1 of this Opinion. 
29 See also sections 3.1.6 and 3.1.10 of this Opinion. 
30 Annex I of the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

3.1.9 Special categories  of personal data 

84. 

For  a third country’s  data protection system  to be  recognized as  providing  a level  of protection  of 
personal data essentially equivalent to that of the GDPR, specific safeguards should exist where special 
categories of personal within the meaning of Articles 9 and 10 GDPR are involved. 

85.  Under  PIPA, specific  provisions  apply  to  the  processing  of  so-called  sensitive  information,  which 
includes personal information revealing the ideology, belief, admission  to or withdrawal from a trade 
union or political party, political opinions,  health, sex life, and other personal information that is likely 
to markedly threaten the privacy of any data subject, as well as, by reference to the PIPA Enforcement 
Decree, DNA  information  acquired  from  genetic  testing,  data that  constitutes  a  criminal  history 
record;  personal  information  resulting  from  specific  technical  processing  of  data  relating  to  the 
physical,  physiological  or  behavioural  characteristics of  an  individual  for  the  purpose  of  uniquely 
identifying that individual; and personal information revealing racial or ethnic origin.  

86. 

Similarly  to the GDPR, Korean data protection law prohibits  the processing of  sensitive  information 
unless  specific exemptions apply consisting  of (1) informing the data subject and obtaining a specific 
consent and (2) legal provisions  authorizing the processing (Article 23(2) PIPA). 

87.  On this  basis, the EDPB in principle  agrees with the European Commission’s  conclusion  of  essential 
equivalence  of  Korean  law  with  respect  to  the  processing  of  special  categories of  personal  data. 
However, the EDPB would like to note that it has not been provided with the PIPA Handbook nor with 
the clarifications from the PIPC with regard to the term “sexual life” being interpreted as also covering 
the individual’s  sexual  orientation or  preferences, which  have not been included  in  Notification No 
2021-1. The EDPB therefore calls on the European Commission  to provide this information to be able 
to independently assess it. Further, the EDPB invites the European Commission  to specifically cite the 
documents where the information it refers to on this topic can be found. 

3.1.10 Rights of access, rectification,  erasure  and objection 

88. 

89. 

In the Korean legal framework, data subject rights are recognized in Article 3(5) PIPA  – according to 
which  the personal  information  controller shall  guarantee the data subject rights listed  in  Article 4 
PIPA  and  further  specified  in  Articles  35  to  37,  39  and  39(2)  PIPA  and,  as  for  “personal  credit 
information”  (i.e.,  “credit  information,  that  is  information  that  is  necessary  to  determine  the 
creditworthiness  of  parties  to  financial  or  commercial  transactions  –  see  Recital  3  of  the  draft 
decision), in Articles 37, 38, 38(3) CIA. 

The EDPB notes that the right of access (and of rectification and erasure which may be exercised by a 
“data subject who has accessed his or her personal information pursuant to Article 35” PIPA) may be 
limited or denied “where access is prohibited or limited by Acts”, “where access may cause damage to 
the life or body of a third party, or unjustified infringement of property and other interests of any other 
person”, and in addition, for public institutions, where granting access “would cause grave difficulties” 
in carrying out  certain functions, further specified  in Article 35(4) PIPA31. Similar provisions  are also 
contained in Article 37 PIPA relating to the right of suspension  of processing of personal information. 

90.  Article 23 GDPR allows Union or Member State law to restrict individual rights when such a restriction 
respects the essence  of the fundamental rights and freedoms and is  a necessary and proportionate 
measure  in  a  democratic society  and  envisages  such  restrictions  to  safeguard, among  others, the 
protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others and “a monitoring, inspection or 

                                                             
31 The same conditions and exceptions to the rights of access and correction envisaged by the PIPA apply also 
with regards to the right of access and correction envisaged for credit personal information by the CIA (footnote 
135 of the draft decision).  

Adopted 

 

19 

 

regulatory function  connected, even occasionally,  to  the exercise  of  official  authority  in  the cases 
referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g) of the same article”. 

91.  Against this background, the EDPB would welcome general reassurances in the draft decision  on the 
need for any law or statute limiting the rights of the data subjects to meet the requirements of the 
Korean  Constitution  that a fundamental  right may  only  be  restricted when  necessary  for  national 
security, or the maintenance of law and order for public welfare, and that this limitation may not affect 
the essence of the freedom or right concerned (Article 37(2) of the Korean Constitution). 

92. 

Furthermore, with regard to the exception related to “an unjustified infringement of property or other 
interests of any other persons”, the EDPB acknowledges that this “implies that a balancing should take 
place between the constitutionally protected rights and freedoms of the individual,  on the one hand, 
and of  other persons, on the other hand”32, however, it would call on the European Commission  to 
fully  monitor the application of  this exception and the relevant case law in order to ensure that an 
equivalent  level of  protection  of  data subject  rights  is  ensured  also  in  practice in  the Korean  legal 
framework. 

93.  By  the  same  token,  the  EDPB  would  welcome  an  attentive monitoring  of  the  application  of  the 
exception for the public bodies, in particular with regard to the cases where granting access would be 
considered  as causing “grave difficulties” in performing their duties considering that this expression 
seems to be broader than the one used in other provisions  of the PIPA, e.g. in Article 18(2) lit. 533, and 
should  be interpreted restrictively in order to avoid unduly restrictions of the data subject rights. 

94.  Besides,  the  EDPB  is  concerned  as  to  whether  the  exceptions  according  to  which  the  provisions 
regarding transparency on request (Article 20 PIPA) and individual rights (Articles 35 to 37 PIPA) – as 
well  as  the  similar  ones  relating to  the  requirements  for  information  and  communication  service 
providers (Article 39(2), 39(6) to 39(8) PIPA) and those contained in the CIA (see exceptions envisaged 
by Article 40(3) CIA) – do not apply with respect to pseudonymised  information, when this is processed 
for purposes  of statistics, scientific research or archiving in the public interest (Article 28(7) PIPA) are 
in line with the safeguards provided for in the European legal framework. 

95. 

These provisions  seem to introduce a general derogation for such kind of processing while the GDPR 
envisages  that,  where  personal  data  (including  pseudonymised  personal  data)  is  processed  for 
scientific  or  historical  research purposes  or  statistical  purposes,  Union  or  Member  Sta te law may 
provide  for derogations   from the data subject  rights but only  “in so  far as  such rights are likely to 
render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the specific purposes, and such derogations 
are necessary for the fulfilment of those purposes”, pseudonymisation being only one of the technical 
and organisational measures to be adopted to ensure respect for the principle of  data minimization 
(Article 89(1) GDPR). 

96. 

The European Commission  considers  the derogation envisaged by  Article 28(7) PIPA to  be justified 
also in light of Article 28(5) PIPA by which the personal information controller is expressly prohibited 
to  process  the  pseudonymised  information  for  the  purpose  of  identifying  a  certain individual  and 
refers to the approach of Article 11(2) GDPR (in conjunction with Recital 57 GDPR) for processing which 
does not require identification34. 

                                                             
32 Recital 76 of the draft decision. 
33 In relation to exceptions to the limitation to Out-of-Purpose Use and Provision of Personal Information, Article 
18(2) lit. 5 PIPA refers to situations where, for public institutions, “it is impossible” to perform the duties. 
34 To be noted that the same reasoning would not be applicable as such to the exception envisaged by Article 
40(3) CIA for the processing of pseudonymised credit information because Article 40 (2)(6) envisages that: “A 
credit information company, etc. shall not process pseudonymised information in a way that a specific individual 

Adopted 

 

20 

 

97. 

Indeed, according to  Article 11  GDPR, the controller  shall  not  be  obliged  to  “maintain, acquire or 
process additional information in order to identify the data subject” for the sole purpose of complying 
with the GDPR if, for the intended purposes, it may process personal data which do not or do no longer 
require the identification of a data subject; in such cases, when the controller is able to demonstrate 
that  it  is  not  in  a  position  to  identify  the  data  subject,  data  subject  rights  do  not  apply.    As 
acknowledged  by  the  European  Commission35,  the  GDPR  therefore  requires,  in  such  cases,  a 
“practical”  impossibility  for  the  data  controller  and,  in  accordance  with  the  principle  of  data 
minimization, recognizes that no additional data has to be processed  “because of” the GDPR. 

98.  However, the EDPB deems this situation to be different from the one in which a controller is practically 
in a position  to identify the data subject but it is not allowed to do so by a statutory provision such as 
the one contained in Article 28(5) PIPA. In this respect, the EDPB welcomes the clarifications provided 
by the PIPC in the Notification No 2021-136 confirming that Section 3 PIPA (including Article 28(7)) and 
the  exception  of  Article  40(3)  CIA  only  apply  when  pseudonymised  information  is  processed  for 
scientific  research, statistics or  archiving  in  the public  interest. However –  and additionally  to the 
concerns already mentioned  about the effective binding  nature of the Notification No 2021-137, the 
EDPB still  wonders  whether the derogations envisaged  by  Articles 28(7) PIPA and  Article 40(3) CIA 
could be considered as necessary and proportionate in a democratic society as far as they restrict the 
data subject  rights in all cases where pseudonymised  information  is  processed  for such  purposes  – 
i.e., even  when  the personal  information  controller is  practically in  a  position  to identify  the data 
subject and the rights are not likely to render impossible  or seriously  impair the achievement of the 
specific purposes. 

99. 

In particular, the EDPB has concerns that these derogations would not be justified and would need to 
be further scrutinized especially if applied by the personal information controller that pseudonymises 
the data “for statistical  purposes, scientific research purposes, and  archiving purposes  in the public 
interest, etc.”, in  accordance with  Article  28(2)  PIPA  “without  the  consent  of  data  subjects”  (and 
without providing information envisaged by Article 20 PIPA)38, as far as this controller maintains the 
information allowing the re-identification. Under the GDPR individuals should be able to exercise their 
rights  with  regard to  any  information  which  is  able  to  identify  or  single  them  out,  even  if  the 
information is considered “pseudonymised” unless the already mentioned Article 11 GDPR applies. In 
this  respect, the  EDPB notes  that  only  when  this  data  is  provided  to  a  third  party  for  the  same  
statistical, scientific  research  purposes  and  archiving  purposes,  information  that may  be  used  to 
identify  a  certain  individual  should  not  be  included  and  therefore  only  the  personal  information 
controller to which pseudonymised  data is provided according to Article 28-2(2) PIPA would probably 
be “practically” not in a position  to identify the data subject without additional information. 

100.  In a  nutshell,  considering  that, as recognized by  the  European  Commission,  “instead of  relying  on 
pseudonymisation  as  a  possible  safeguard, PIPA imposes  it as  a pre-condition in  order to  carry out 
certain processing activities for the purposes of statistics, scientific research and archiving in the public 
interest (such as to be able to process the data without consent or to combine different datasets)”39 

                                                             
may be identified for any profit-making or unfair purposes” and could therefore allow re-identification for a fair 
purpose such as the one to fulfil a data subject request.  
35 See Recital 82 of the draft decision. 
36 Section 4 of Annex I to the draft decision. 
37 See section 3.1.1.1 above. 
38 See  Article 28(7) PIPA, as explained in the Notification No 2021-1, according to which certain safeguards 
contained in the PIPA, i.e., “Articles 20, 21, 27, 34 (1), 35 through 37, 39(3), 39(4), 39(6) through 39(8)”, shall not 
apply to the pseudonymised information processed for the purpose of compiling statistics, scientific research, 
preservation of public records, etc. 
39 Recital 42 of the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

21 

 

but it envisages for such cases important restrictions on the data subjects rights, the EDPB calls on the 
European Commission  to  assess  further the derogations contained in  Article 28(7)  PIPA and Article 
40(3) CIA and to attentively monitor their application and relevant case law40 in order to ensure that 
the  data  subject  rights  will  not  be  unduly  restricted  when  personal  data  transferred  under  the 
adequacy decision is processed for these purposes taking into account that, in many cases, these rights 
help also the controller to ensure the quality of the processed data. 

3.1.11 Restrictions on onward transfers  

101.  The GDPR Adequacy Referential clarifies that the level of protection of natural persons whose personal 
data is transferred under an adequacy decision must not be undermined by the onward transfer and 
therefore any onward transfer “should be permitted only where the further recipient (i.e., the recipient 
of the onward transfer) is also subject to rules (including contractual rules) affording an adequate level 
of protection and following the relevant instructions when processing data on the behalf of the data 
controller”.  

102.  As for the onward transfers to outsourcees (i.e., “processors”) established in other third countries, the 
EDPB takes note that no special rules are in place in the Korean legal framework to cover these cases 
and that, as considered by the European Commission41,  a Korean personal information controller has 
to ensure  compliance with PIPA’s provisions  on  outsourcing  (Article 26 PIPA) by  means of  a legally 
binding instrument and it will be responsible  for the personal  information that has been outsourced 
(Article 26 PIPA).  

103.  With  regards  to  onward  transfers  to  third  parties  (i.e.,  other  personal  information  controllers), 
according  to  Article  17(3)  PIPA,  a Korean  personal  information  controller  has  to  inform  the  data 
subjects  about  and  obtain  their  consent  for  the  overseas  transfers  and  it  “shall  not  enter into  a 
contract for the cross-border transfer of personal information in violation of the PIPA”. The EDPB notes 
that this last provision  will ensure – as considered by the European Commission42  – that no contract 
for cross-border transfers could contain obligations contradicting the requirements imposed  by PIPA 
on the personal information controller and could be therefore considered as a safeguard, however, it 
does not impose any obligation to put in place safeguards to ensure that the same level of protection 
afforded  by  the  PIPA  will  be  afforded  by  the  recipient. Therefore,  the  EDPB acknowledges  that 
informed consent of the data subject will generally be used as a basis for data transfers from a Korean-
based personal information controller to a third country-based recipient. 

104.  In this regard, the additional clarifications provided  by  the PIPC in  Notification No  2021-1 regarding 
the obligation to inform individuals  about the third country to which their data will be provided43 are 
welcomed as this – as highlighted by the European Commission44  – would  help  data subjects in  the 
EEA take a fully informed decision  on whether or not to consent to an overseas provision.  

105.  However,  as  also  considered  in  the  Opinion  28/2018  regarding the  European  Commission  Draft 
Implementing Decision on the adequate protection of personal data in Japan, it has to be highlighted 
that, under the GDPR, data subjects have to be  explicitly informed  about the possible  risks  of such 
transfers arising from  the absence of  adequate protection in  the third country  and the absence  of 
appropriate safeguards  prior  to consent.  Such  notice  should  include  for  example information  that 
there might not be a supervisory authority and/or data processing principles and/or data subject rights 

                                                             
40  See,  for example, the  Open Net’s  constitutional challenges (information at  https://opennet.or.kr/19909 
available in Korean only). 
41 Recital 87 of the draft decision. 
42 Recital 88 of the draft decision. 
43 Ibid. 
44 Ibid. 

Adopted 

 

22 

 

in the third country45. For the EDPB, the provision  of this information is  essential in order to enable 
the  data  subject  to  give  an  informed  consent  with  full  knowledge  of  these  specific  facts  of  the 
transfer46. The EDPB, therefore, has concerns with the European Commission’s  findings  in the draft 
adequacy decision vis-à-vis  this specific kind of transfers. Data subjects are usually not knowledgeable 
about the data protection framework in third countries. Hence, it cannot be concluded  that a data 
subject could assess  the risk  of a transfer by only  knowing the specific country of destination. There 
rather has to be a clear information  about the  specific risks  of  such a transfer of personal  data to a 
country outside the territory of the Republic of Korea prior to the data subject’s consent.  

106.  Thus, the EDPB invites the European Commission  to ensure that the information to be provided to the 
data subject  “on the circumstances surrounding  the transfer” includes  information  on  the  possible 
risks  of  the transfer  arising  from  the  absence  of  adequate protection  in  the third  country  and  of 
appropriate  safeguards.  This  is  important  for  the  EDPB  in  order  to  assess  whether  the  consent 
requirements are essentially equivalent to the GDPR. 

107.  Furthermore, considering that consent needs to be freely given, informed, specific and unambiguous, 
the  EDPB  would  welcome  reassurances  in  the  adequacy  decision  that personal  data will  not  be 
transferred from Korean  personal information  controllers  to a third  party in a third  country in  any 
situation in which under the GDPR valid consent could not be provided, e.g. because of an imbalance 
of power. 

108.  In relation to cases where the personal information controller may provide personal information to a 
third party overseas without the data subject’s consent – i.e., (1) if personal information is provided 
within the scope reasonably related to the initial purpose of collection according to Article 17(4) PIPA; 
and (2)  if  personal  information  can be provided  to  a third party in  exceptional cases mentioned  in 
Article 18(2)  PIPA –  the EDPB takes  note of  the clarifications provided  by  the PIPC  in  Section  2  of 
Notification No 2021-1 (and welcomes  the envisaged duty  imposed  on the Korean-based controller 
and the overseas recipient to ensure, through a legally binding instrument (such as a contract), a level 
of protection equivalent to PIPA, including with respect to data subject rights). 

3.1.12 Direct marketing 

109.  According to Articles 21(2) and 21(3) GDPR and the GDPR Adequacy Referential, the data subject has 
always to be in a position  to object without any  charge to data processing  for purposes  of profiling 
and direct marketing.  

110.  With regard to the right to suspension  envisaged by Article 37 PIPA, the EDPB acknowledges that the 
European Commission  considers  that this right also applies  where data is  used  for direct marketing 
purposes47. However, the EDPB would welcome additional information and clarifications in the draft 
decision  in relation to this assessment  and, in  particular, on the practical application of the right to 
suspension  in  the  context  of  direct  marketing  (e.g. references  to  relevant  case  law, etc.). In  this 
respect, the EDPB would also highlight that the right to ask a credit information provider/user to stop 
contacting him/her  for the purpose  of introducing  or soliciting the purchase  of goods  or services  is 
explicitly set forth by the CIA (Article 37(2)).  

111.  Furthermore,  as  recognized  by  the  European  Commission48,  in  the  Korean  legal framework  such 
processing generally requires the specific (additional) consent of the data subject (see Article 15(1) lit. 
1, Article 17(2) lit. 1 of PIPA).  

                                                             
45 EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, 25 May 2018, p.8 . 
46 EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, 25 May 2018, p.7 . 
47 Recital 79 of the draft decision. 
48 Ibid. 

Adopted 

 

23 

 

112.  As it cannot be ruled out that personal data transferred from the EEA may be processed in Korea for 
such purposes, the EDPB would also welcome clarifications in the adequacy decision on the existence 
of the right for a data subject to withdraw consent 49 and on the right to have his or her personal data 
erased  and  no  longer  processed  where  the  processing  is  based  on  consent  (such  as  in  case  of 
processing carried out for marketing purposes) and the data subject has withdrawn it.   

3.1.13 Automated decision-making and profiling 

113.  As acknowledged by the European Commission  in its draft decision50, PIPA and its Enforcement Decree 
do  not  contain  general provisions  addressing  the issue  of  decisions  affecting the data subject  and 
based solely  on the automated processing of personal  data. Still, the Korean legal system envisages 
such  right  in  the  CIA  which  contains  rules  on  automated  decisions  (Article  36(2))  even  if  their 
application  seem  to  be  out  of  the  scope  of  PIPC  supervision  (and,  as  such,  out  of  the  scope  of 
application of  this  draft decision  –  see section 2.3.2 above  on  the scope  of  application of  the draft 
decision). 

114.  As already considered by the Article 29 Working Party51 in its opinion 1/2016 on the Privacy Shield and 
by  the  EDPB  in  its  previous  opinion  on  the  adequacy  decision  relating  to  Japan52,  the  growing 
importance of automated decision-making, profiling and A.I. would suggest taking a more protective 
approach in this regard. Contrary to the European Commission’s  arguments53 according to which the 
absence of specific  rules on  automated decision-making in  the PIPA is  unlikely  to affect the level  of 
protection as regards personal data that has been collected in the Union (since any decision based on 
automated processing  would  typically  be  taken  by  the  controller  in  the  Union  which  has  a  direct 
relationship  with the concerned  data subject), the EDPB considers  that it  cannot be ruled  out that 
automated decision-making could be used by a Korean-based personal information controller in case 
of  data transferred under  the adequacy  decision  (for  instance, in  the  context of  employment,  for 
assessing performance at work, reliability, conduct, etc.). 

115.  Developing  new  technologies  enable  companies  to  more  easily  implement  or  consider  the 
implementation of automated decision-making systems which may lead to weakening the position  of 
individuals. Where decisions made solely by those automated systems impact upon the legal situation 
of  individuals  or  significantly  affect  them  (for  example,  by  black-listing  and  thereby  depriving 
individuals  of  their rights)  it is  crucial to  provide  for  sufficient  safeguards including  the right to be 
informed  about  the  specific  reasons  underlying  the  decision  and  the  logic  involved,  to  correct 
inaccurate or incomplete information, and to contest the decision  where it has been adopted on an 
incorrect factual basis54. 

116.  In this context, the EDPB has concerns regarding the lack of legal provisions  on automated decision-
making in the PIPA and therefore invites the European Commission  to address this concern and keep 
monitoring the development of the Korean legislative framework in this respect.  

                                                             
49 See also above under para. 67: While the possibility to revoke consent is clearly envisaged in Article 37(1) CIA, 
this right is only mentioned twice in PIPA for specific circumstances in Articles 27(1) 2 and Article 39(7). 
50 See Recital 81 of the draft decision. 
51 This Working Party was set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It was an independent European advisory 
body on data protection and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/4 6/EC and Article 15 of 
Directive 2002/58/EC. The WP29 has now become the EDPB.   
52    Opinion 28/2018 regarding the  European Commission Draft Implementing Decision on the  adequate 
protection of personal data in Japan adopted on 5 December 2018. 
53 Recital 81 of the draft decision. 
54 WP 254, p. 7.  

Adopted 

 

24 

 

3.1.14 Accountability   

117.  The  Korean  legal  framework  contains  several  rules  aimed  at  ensuring  that personal  information 
controllers put in place appropriate technical and organisational measures to effectively comply with 
their data protection obligations  and be able to demonstrate such  compliance, among other to the 
competent supervisory  authority. In particular, the EDPB welcomes the existence of rules envisaging 
the adoption of  an internal management plan (Article 29 PIPA),  the obligation of carrying out a so-
called privacy impact assessment (“PIA”) for cases where processing presents a higher risk of possible 
privacy violations (Article 33(1) PIPA and Article 35 PIPA Enforcement Decree), rules on training and 
supervision  of staff (Article 28 PIPA) as well as the obligation to designate a privacy officer (Article 31 
PIPA in conjunction with Article 32 PIPA Enforcement Decree). 

118.  The  EDPB  shares  the  view  of  the  European  Commission  relating  to  the  essentially  equivalent 
protection  they ensure  – even  in  cases  where the  rules  seem  to  relatively diverge  from  the  ones 
envisaged  by  the  GDPR, e.g. there  is  no  provision  stating  the  need  for  the  privacy  officer  to  be 
independent,  however, it is  clearly set forth  that he/she  has to  report to  the management of  the 
personal  information  controller  (Article  31(4)  PIPA)  and  that  he/she  must  not  suffer  unjustified 
disadvantages  as  a  consequence  of  performing  these  functions  (Article  31(5)  PIPA)  –  and  would 
suggest the  European  Commission  monitoring,  when  reviewing the  adequacy  decision,  the  actual 
application of these provisions  in order to assess their effective implementation. 

3.2. Procedural and Enforcement Mechanisms 

119.  Based on the criteria set forth in the GDPR Adequacy Referential, the EDPB has analysed the following 
aspects of the Korean data protection framework as covered under the draft decision: the existence 
and effective functioning of an independent supervisory  authority; the existence of a system ensuring 
a good  level  of  compliance  and  a system  of  access  to  appropriate redress  mechanisms  equipping 
individuals  in the EEA with the means to exercise their rights and seek redress without encountering 
cumbersome barriers to administrative and judicial redress. 

120.  In accordance with Chapter VI of the GDPR, and Chapter 3 of the GDPR Adequacy Referential one or 
more independent supervisory authorities must exist, tasked with monitoring, ensuring, and enforcing 
compliance with data protection and privacy provisions  in a third country to ensure an EEA equivalent 
level of protection. 

121.  In this  context, the  third country  supervisory  authority must  act with  complete independence  and 
impartiality in performing its duties and exercising its powers and in doing so  shall neither seek nor 
accept instructions. In addition, the supervisory  authority should have all the necessary and available 
powers  and  missions  to  ensure  compliance  with  data  protection  rights  and  promote  awareness. 
Consideration  should  also  be  given  to  the  staff  and  budget  of  the  supervisory  authority.  The 
supervisory  authority shall also be able to start proceedings, on its own initiative. 

3.2.1 Competent Independent Supervisory Authority 

122.  In the Republic of Korea, the independent authority in charge of monitoring and enforcing  the PIPA is 
the PIPC. The PIPC  consists  of  one  Chairperson,  a Vice Chairperson  and seven  Commissioners.  The 
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson are appointed by the President upon recommendation of the Prime 
Minister. Of  the Commissioners,  two are appointed  upon  recommendation of  the Chairperson, two 
upon recommendation by representatives from the political party to which the President belongs and 
the three remaining members upon  recommendation by representatives from other political parties 
(Article  7(2)(2)  PIPA). The  PIPC  is  assisted  by  a  Secretariat (Article  7(13))  and  may  establish  sub-
commissions  (consisting  of  three Commissioners)  to handle minor  violations  and  recurring matters 
(Article 7(12) PIPA).  

Adopted 

 

25 

 

123.  In this sense, the EDPB acknowledges that despite its recent reorganisation which deeply amended its 
status and powers, the PIPC has put considerable efforts into building the required infrastructure to 
accommodate the implementation of the PIPA and its most recent amendments. Among these efforts, 
reference can be made to the establishment of the PIPC’s rules, the elaboration of guidelines to give 
guidance  on  the  interpretation  of  the  PIPA,  and  the  setting  up  of  a  helpline  to  advise  business 
operators  and  individuals  on  data protection  provisions  as  well  as  a  mediation  service  to  handle 
complaints. In particular, the tasks of the PIPC include advising on laws and regulations related to data 
protection,  developing  data  protection  policies  and  guidelines,  investigating  infringements  of 
individual  rights,  handling  complaints,  and  mediating  disputes,  enforcing  compliance  with  PIPA, 
ensuring education  and promotion  in the area of  data protection, and  exchanging and cooperating 
with third country data protection authorities55.  

124.  The appointment and composition of the PIPC are set forth in Article 7(2) PIPA. Although the PIPC falls 
within the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister (and the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson are appointed 
by  the President upon  the recommendation of  the Prime Minister), the legal framework mandates 
that the Commissioners  perform their duties  independently, according to law and their conscience. 
The  EDPB acknowledges  the  institutional  and  procedural  safeguards contained  in  the PIPA  and  in 
particular in Articles 7(4) to 7(7). Still, the EDPB would welcome the European Commission to monitor 
any  developments  that  might  affect  the  independence  of  the  members  of  the  South  Korean 
supervisory  authority. 

125.  Moreover, the draft decision does not yet comprise an analysis of the PIPC’s budget, including sources 
of  funding  and  budget transparency. The EDPB considers  that this  element, which  is  mentioned  in 
both,  Article  56(1)  GDPR  and  the  procedural  and  enforcement  data  protection  principles  and 
mechanisms to be considered  under the GDPR Adequacy Referential when evaluating a country’s or 
an international organization’s system, must be thoroughly taken into account as it is an indicator of 
the  economic  and  human  resources  available  to  the  supervisory  authority  to  perform  its  data 
protection statutory obligations and tasks independently, and would therefore advise the European 
Commission  to account for it in more detail in the draft decision.   

3.2.2. Existence of a data protection system ensuring a good level of compliance 

126.  In the field of enforcement, the EDPB acknowledges the range of enforcement powers and sanctions 
of the PIPC as provided for  in the PIPA and the CIA and takes note of  the clarifications contained in 
Notification No 2021-1 according to which the conditions referred to in Articles 64(1) PIPA and Article 
45(4) CIA56 will be applicable whenever any of the principles, rights and duties, included in the law to 
protect personal information, are violated. However, it would recommend the European Commission 
to closely  monitor the application in practice of  the PIPC’s powers  to order the violator to take the 
measure it deems to be appropriate under the ones listed in Article 64(1) or Article 45(4) CIA. 

127.  Furthermore, regarding the corrective measures provided in  Article 64(1) PIPA, in case of failure to 
comply with a corrective measure, the PIPC is empowered to impose a fine of a maximum amount of 
50 million  Korean won (Article 75(2)  lit. 13 PIPA). This amount is  the equivalent of  EUR 36,564. The 
EDPB considers  and has  concerns  that such  limited  range of  pecuniary  sanctions  might not have  a 
particularly  strong  deterrent  effect  on  violators  as  intended  by  the  law  in  order  to  ensure  the 
enforcement  of  data protection  rules  since  it does  not  seem  appropriately  sufficient  to  dissuade, 
especially in the case of large organizations or undertakings with significant financial resources. 

                                                             
55 The tasks and powers of the PIPC are mainly provided for in Articles 7(8) and 7(9), as well as in Articles 61 to 
66 PIPA. 
56 I.e., “a violation of the law is deemed to be likely to infringe on the rights and freedom of individuals in regard 
to personal information and failure to take action is likely to cause damage that is difficult to remedy“. 

Adopted 

 

26 

 

128.  With respect to the possibility  that the PIPC may demand  that the head of  a central administrative 
agency investigates the  personal  information  controller  or  jointly  engages in  an  investigation  into 
violations  of  PIPA  and  even  impose  corrective  measures  with  respect  to  personal  information 
controllers  under their jurisdiction  (Article 63(4)-(5)  PIPA), the EDPB notes that, even though  some 
information has been provided in Recital 122 of the draft decision, overall the nature of these other 
agencies and their legal relations with the PIPC remains rather unclear. Additionally, Article 68(1) PIPA 
refers to many entities to which it would  be possible  to  delegate the authority of the PIPC. Even if it 
seems  that  this  provision  has  been  applied  only  in  relation  to  the  Korean  Internet and  Security 
Agency57,  the  EDPB  would  welcome  clarifications  with  regards  to  the  nature  of  the  possible 
interactions between these entities and an attentive monitoring of the application of this provision  in 
the future in order to ensure the independence of the entities tasked with applying the data protection 
rules.  

129.  With  regard to  sanctions, the  Korean system  seems  to  combine  different types  of  sanctions,  from 
corrective measures and administrative fines  to criminal sanctions, which are likely to have a strong 
deterrent effect, and the Korean authorities presented several examples of fines imposed recently by 
the  PIPC,  inter alia  one  of  6.7  billion  Korean  won  imposed  in  December 2020  on  a company  for 
violating different provisions  of PIPA, and another fine of 103.3 million Korean won on 28 April 2021 
issued  to an AI Technology company  for violating the rules of lawfulness  of processing, in particular 
consent, and the processing of pseudonymised  information. 

130.  Although  the  above-mentioned  amounts  may  have  a  dissuasive  effect, the  EDPB would  welcome 
additional information on the method used by the PIPC to calculate the level of administrative fines, 
for example with respect to fines  imposed  for a failure to comply  with a corrective measure  issued 
pursuant  to Article 64(1)  PIPA (see Article 75(2)  lit. 13 PIPA). This  is  especially  relevant concerning 
criminal sanctions and the application of the (Korean) Criminal Act.  

3.2.3. The  data  protection  system  must  provide  support  and  help  to  data  subjects  in  the 

exercise  of their rights and appropriate redress mechanisms 

131.  Concerning redress, the Korean system seems to offer various avenues to ensure adequate protection 
and, in particular, the enforcement of individual  rights with an effective administrative and  judicial 
redress, including compensation for damages. 

132.  The Korean system also offers alternative mechanisms to which individuals can turn to obtain redress, 
in addition  to administrative and judicial  avenues, as explained in  Recitals 132 and  133 of the draft 
decision,  relating to the Privacy  Call Centre and the  Dispute Mediation Committee respectively. As 
these are additional redress avenues, the EDPB would welcome more detailed explanations on how 
they complement  the redress  possibilities  before the  PIPC and  courts  for the  data subjects  whose 
personal data is transferred to Korea under the adequacy decision. 

4.  ACCESS  AND  USE  OF  PERSONAL  DATA  TRANSFERRED FROM  THE 

EUROPEAN UNION BY PUBLIC AUTHORITIES IN SOUTH KOREA 

133.  With regard to the assessment  of the level of  data protection in the areas of  law enforcement and 
national security, the European Commission  provided comprehensive information in its draft decision 
and the annexes made available. Therefore, the EDPB refrains from reproducing most of  the factual 
findings and assessments in this opinion. 

                                                             
57 See Recital 117 of the draft decision and Article 62 Enforcement Decree. 

Adopted 

 

27 

 

134.  The European Commission  comes to the conclusion  that in the above-mentioned areas a level of data 
protection  exists  that corresponds  to  the  requirements set  by  the case  law of  the CJEU    and  can 
therefore be considered essentially equivalent to that of the European Union. 

135.  As a general remark, the EDPB would like to emphasize that even in cases where it seems or is claimed 
by  the European  Commission  that data transferred from  the  EU to  South  Korea  is  unlikely  to  be 
affected by the relevant Korean law, it is still  in order to assess  the adequacy of the Korean level of 
data protection with regard to such cases. Their relevance is also demonstrated by the fact that the 
European Commission  itself has addressed them in the draft decision. 

4.1 General data protection framework in the context of government access  

136.  When it comes to access to personal data by public authorities, various Korean laws have to be looked 
at in order to assess the level of protection of the right to privacy and  data protection. First of all, the 
EDPB notes that PIPA, as a key data protection law, claims broad applicability. However, while PIPA is 
fully applicable to the area of law enforcement, its application to data processing for national security 
purposes  is  limited. Pursuant to Article 58(1)  lit.2 PIPA, Chapters III through VII do not apply  to the 
processing  of  personal  data  for  national  security  purposes.  Yet,  Chapters  I,  II, IX  and  X  remain 
applicable for  the area of  national security. Thus,  PIPA’s core principles  as well as the fundamental 
guarantees for data subject rights and the provisions on supervision, enforcement and remedies do 
apply to the access and use of personal data by national security authorities.  

137.  The  South  Korean  constitution  too  enshrines  essential  data  protection  principles,  namely  the 
principles of legality, necessity and proportionality. These principles are also applicable to the access 
to personal  data by  South  Korean  public  authorities in  the  areas of  law  enforcement and national 
security58. 

138.  In the area of law enforcement the police, prosecutors, courts and other public  bodies  may collect 
personal  data  based  on  specific 
legislation,  i.e.  the  Criminal  Procedure  Act  (“CPA”),  the 
Communications  Privacy Protection Act (“CPPA”), the Telecommunications Business Act (“TBA”) and 
the Act on Reporting and Using Specified Financial Transaction Information (“ARUSFTI”), which applies 
to the prosecution and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. These particular laws 
set out further limitations, safeguards and exemptions. 

139.  In the area of  national security, based on  the National Intelligence Service Act (“NISA”) and further 
“national  security  laws”59, the  National Intelligence Service  (“NIS”) may  collect  personal  data and 
intercept communications. In conducting its powers the EDPB understands that the NIS has to comply 
with the aforementioned legal provisions  as well as with PIPA.  

140.  The EDPB asks the Commission  to clarify whether there are other authorities in Korea besides the NIS 
that are responsible for the area of national security as in Annex I, Section 6 the European Commission 
gives the impression of the NIS as an example for national security agencies.  

4.2 Protection  and safeguards for communication confirmation data in the context  of 

government access for law enforcement purposes 

141.  On  the  basis  of  the  relevant law,  the  CPPA,  law  enforcement  authorities  may  take  two  types  of 
measures for access to communication information. The CPPA distinguishes between communication-
restricting measures, which cover both the collection of the content of ordinary mail and the direct 

                                                             
58 See Recital 145 of the draft decision. 
59 National security laws include, for instance, the Communications Privacy Protection Act, the Act on Anti -
Terrorism for the Protection of Citizens and Public Security or the Telecommunications Business Act. 

Adopted 

 

28 

 

interception of the content of telecommunications60, and the collection of  so-called communication 
confirmation data. The latter include the date of telecommunications, their start- and end-time, the 
number  of  outgoing  and  incoming  calls  as  well  as  the  subscriber  number  of  the  other party, the 
frequency of use, log files on the use of telecommunication services and location information61. 

142.  The EDPB notes that communication confirmation data seem not to benefit from the same safeguards 
as data collected via communication-restricting measures, i.e. content data. Indeed, the EDPB notices 
that the collection of  content benefits  from more safeguards than the collection of  communication 
confirmation  data  for  law  enforcement purposes:  First, unlike  the  collection  of  content  data, the 
collection of  communication  confirmation data is  not limited to the investigation of  certain serious 
crimes, but can be performed when deemed necessary to conduct “any investigation or to execute 
any punishment” (Article 13(1) CPPA). Second, the collection of communication confirmation data is 
in  principle  not  structured as  a measure  of  last resort  and  only  to  be  used  where  it  is  difficult  to 
otherwise  prevent  the  commission  of  a  crime,  arrest  the  criminal  or  collect  evidence62. 
Communication  confirmation data can be collected whenever a prosecutor  or judicial police  officer 
“deems  it necessary”  for  investigating a  crime or  executing a punishment.  However, an exception 
exists in  this  regard for real-time tracking data and  communication confirmation data concerning a 
specific base station according to Article 13(2) CPPA. Third, law enforcement agencies collecting the 
content  of  communication  must  immediately  cease  to  do  so  once  continued  access  is  no  longer 
deemed  to  be  necessary63.  With  regard to  communication  confirmation  data, this  is  at least  not 
explicitly stipulated in the CPPA or its Enforcement Decree. 

143.  The EDPB takes note that the collection of communication confirmation data may only take place on 
the basis of a court-issued warrant. Moreover, the CPPA requires detailed information to be provided 
both  in the application  for the warrant and in  the warrant itself64. Such  prior judicial  authorisation 
serves to limit the law enforcement authorities’ discretion in applying the law and to verify whether 
sufficient  reasons for collecting communication confirmation data exist in each case. The EDPB also 
recognises  that  the  law  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  does  not  seem  to  provide  for  general  and 
indiscriminate retention of communication confirmation data. Thus, government access to such data 
always relates to data that is still retained for the purposes of billing and providing the communication 
services themselves. 

144.  However, the EDPB stresses that the CJEU has questioned the fact that traffic data are less sensitive 
than  others,  and  in  particular  than  content  data 65.  Taking  into  account  that  communication 
confirmation data is  afforded  a lower level  of protection than content data in several respects, the 
EDPB invites  the European Commission  to closely  monitor  whether the safeguards  provided  under 
Korean law for such category of personal data ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection to 

                                                             
60 Articles, 3(2), 2(6), 2(7) CPPA. 
61 Article 2(11) CPPA. 
62 This is the case for content data according to Articles 3(2) and 5(1) CPPA. 
63 Article 2 CPPA Enforcement Decree. 
64 See Recital 156 of the draft decision. 
65 See CJEU, C-623/17, Privacy International, 6 October 2020, ECLI:EU:C:2020:790, para. 71: “ The interference 
with the right enshrined in Article 7 of the Charter entailed by the transmission of traffic data and location data 
to the security and intelligence agencies must be regarded as being particularly serious, bearing in mind inter 
alia the sensitive nature of the information which that data may provide and, in particular, the possibility of 
establishing a profile of the persons concerned on the basis of that data, such information being no less sensitive 
than the actual content of communications. In addition, it is  likely to generate in the minds of the persons 
concerned the feeling that their private lives are the subject of constant surveillance (see, by analogy, judgments 
of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and Others, C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraphs 27 and 
37, and of 21 December 2016, Tele2, C-203/15 and C-698/15, EU:C:2016:970, paragraphs 99 and 100).” 

Adopted 

 

29 

 

the one guaranteed in the EU, in  particular with regard to proportionality and foreseeability of the 
law. 

4.3  Access  to  communication  information  by  Korean  public  authorities  for  national 

security purposes 

145.  With  regard to  the  legal framework  for  access  of  national  security  authorities  to  communication 
information transferred from the EEA to Korea, the EDPB has identified  two points  of concern, both 
of  which relate to the regime of  access to communications  between non-Korean  nationals  that fall 
within  a  specific  set  of  use  cases  (see  paragraph  29).  In  those  cases,  with  respect  to  both 
communication confirmation data and content data, certain safeguards otherwise provided  are not 
applicable. In other words, in these specific cases, these data do not benefit from the same safeguards 
as data communicated when at least one Korean national is involved in the communication. 

4.3.1 No  obligation  to  notify  individuals  of  government  access  to  communications  between 

foreign nationals 

146.  In a scenario as outlined above, i.e. where none of the parties of a communication is a Korean national, 
national security authorities are not obliged to notify individuals  about the collection and processing 
of their data. The EDPB recognises that this issue affects only certain cases. Firstly, as already pointed 
out,  whenever  at  least  one  Korean  national  is  involved  in  a  communication,  the  notification 
requirements according to the CPPA apply  to all parties of  the communication  irrespective of  their 
nationality66. Secondly,  the collection  of  personal  data stemming from  communications  exclusively 
between foreign nationals is subject to a specific set of use cases. In particular, the right to access in 
such  cases  extends  to communications  of  a) countries  hostile  to the Republic  of  Korea, b)  foreign 
agencies, groups  or  nationals  suspected  of  engaging in  anti-Korean  activities67, or  c)  members  of 
groups operating within the Korean Peninsula but effectively beyond the sovereignty of the Republic 
of  Korea  and  their  umbrella  groups  based  in  foreign  countries.  Communications  between  EU 
individuals transferred from the EEA to Korea can thus only be collected for national security purposes 
if they fall within one of the three above-mentioned categories68. As a further limiting factor, the EDPB 
understood  from the additional explanations  of the European Commission  that the applicable legal 
framework does not provide for the interception of data in transit outside of Korea. 

147.  Hence, the criticality of the lack of a notification requirement might, in terms of its practical impacts, 
be considered as limited. However, the EDPB stresses the importance of the (subsequent) notification 
of government access, in particular with regard to ensuring effective remedies. According to the CJEU, 
notification is “necessary to enable the persons affected to exercise their rights under Articles 7 and 8 
of the Charter to request access to their personal data that has been the subject of those measures 
and,  where appropriate,  to  have  the  latter  rectified  or  erased,  as  well  as  to  avail  themselves, in 
accordance with  the  first  paragraph  of  Article 47  of  the  Charter, of  an  effective remedy  before a 
tribunal”69.  Government  access  for  purposes  of  national  security  oftentimes  includes  secret 
surveillance measures, meaning that the objects of the surveillance, the data subjects, are not aware 
of the processing of their data. Thus, there “is in principle little scope for recourse to the courts by the 
individual concerned unless the latter is advised of the measures taken without his knowledge and thus 
able to challenge their legality retrospectively or, in the alternative, unless any person who suspects 
                                                             
66 See Recital 192 of the draft decision. 
67 See Annex II, footnote 244, according to which the notion of anti -Korean activities refers to activities that 
threaten the nation’s existence and safety, democratic order or the people’s survival and freedom. 
68 See Recital 187 of the draft decision. 
69 CJEU,  joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others, 6 October 2020, 
ECLI:EU:C:2020:791, para. 190. 

Adopted 

 

30 

 

that his  communications are being or have been intercepted can apply to courts, so that the courts’ 
jurisdiction  does  not  depend  on  notification  to  the  interception subject  that  there  has  been  an 
interception of his  communications”70. In this  context and consistent  herewith, the EDPB has many 
times expressed its concern with effective remedies in surveillance cases. The EDPB emphasises that 
the  secrecy  of  government  measures  must  not  result  in  such  measures  being  effectively 
unchallengeable. Against this background, whether or not the lack of a notification  requirement for 
communications  between foreign nationals  impacts the level  of data protection as assessed  in the 
draft decision has to be evaluated as part of an overall assessment with special regard to the oversight 
and redress mechanisms provided under Korean law (see sections 4.7 and 4.8).  

148.  In addition,  the EDPB notes  in  this context that the law refers to  rather broad  terms such  as anti-
Korean or antinational activities71 and that it is difficult to foresee how these concepts are construed 
under Korean law. The EDPB invites the European Commission  to monitor how these terms are fleshed 
out in Korean law and whether their application in practice meets the requirements of proportionality 
following from EU law. 

4.3.2  No  prior  independent  authorisation  for  collection  of  communication  information 

between  foreign nationals 

149.  In cases where EEA personal data derived from communications between non-Korean nationals (and 
falling within one of the abovementioned use cases) are to be processed in Korea for national security 
purposes,  the collection of  such data is  not subject to prior approval by an independent  body  (as is 
the case for communications where at least one of the individuals  concerned is a Korean national). 72 

150.  Especially  in  light  of  the  recent  decisions  of  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights (“ECtHR”) “Big 
Brother  Watch  and  Others  v.  UK”  and  “Centrum  för  Rättvisa v.  Sweden”,  the  EDPB  considers  it 
necessary  to explore whether this  constitutes a critical shortcoming  of  the Korean data protection 
framework. In this regard, the EDPB recalls that, as underlined in its updated recommendations on 
the  European  essential  guarantees for  surveillances  measures, 73 Article  6(3)  of  the  Treaty on  the 
European  Union  establishes  that the fundamental  rights enshrined  in  the ECHR constitute general 
principles  of EU law while, as the CJEU recalls in  its jurisprudence, the latter does not constitute, as 
long  as  the  European  Union  has  not  acceded  to  it,  a  legal  instrument  which  has  been  formally 
incorporated into EU law74. Thus, the level of protection of fundamental rights required by Article 45 
of the GDPR must be determined on the basis of the provisions  of that regulation, read in the light of 
the fundamental  rights enshrined  in  the Charter. This  being said,  according to Article 52(3)  of  the 
Charter the rights contained therein which correspond to rights guaranteed by the ECHR are to have 
the same meaning and scope as those laid down by that Convention. Consequently, the jurisprudence 
of the ECtHR concerning rights that are also foreseen in the Charter must be taken into account, as a 

                                                             
70 ECtHR, Big Brother Watch and others v. UK, 25 May 2021, ECLI:CE:ECHR:2021:0525JUD005817013, para. 337 
and ECtHR, Case of Roman Zakharov v. Russia, 4 December 2015, ECLI:CE:ECHR:2015:1204JUD004714306, para. 
234. 
71 The European Commission has explained that, according to explanations from the Korean government, this 
refers to ‘activities that threaten the nation’s existence and safety, democratic order or the people’s survival 
and freedom’, see also footnote 319 of the draft adequacy decision. 
72 See Recital 190 of the draft decision. 
73 See EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures, paras. 
10, 11. 
74 See CJEU, C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland Ltd. and Maximilian Schrems, 16 July 
2020, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559 (hereinafter “Schrems II”), para. 98. 

Adopted 

 

31 

 

minimum threshold  of  protection to interpret corresponding rights in the Charter, i.e. to the extent 
that the Charter, as interpreted by the CJEU, does not provide for a higher level of protection75. 

151.  The  EDPB notes  that, while  prior  (independent)  approval  of  surveillance  measures  is  deemed  an 
important safeguard against arbitrariness, such approval cannot be derived from the jurisprudence of 
the CJEU as an absolute requirement for the proportionality of surveillance measures. However, the 
ECtHR has now explicitly established the requirement of ex ante independent authorisation for bulk 
interception76. While the draft decision does not explicitly say so, the EDPB understands that the legal 
framework  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  does  not  provide  for  bulk  interception  but  only  for  targeted 
interception of telecommunications77. The European Commission  has confirmed this understanding. 

152.  That being said, the above-mentioned decisions  of the ECtHR, in line with the case law of the CJEU78 
and previous case law of the ECtHR79, once again show the importance of comprehensive supervision 
by independent supervisory authorities. The EDPB emphasizes that independent oversight at all stages 
of  the  process  of  government  access  for  law  enforcement  and  national  security  purposes  is  an 
important  safeguard  against  arbitrary  surveillance  measures  and  thus  for  the  assessment  of  an 
adequate level  of  data protection.  The  guarantee of  independence  of  the  supervisory  authorities 
within  the  meaning  of  Article  8(3)  of  the  Charter  is  intended  to  ensure  effective  and  reliable 
monitoring of compliance with the rules on the protection of individuals  with regard to the processing 
of  personal  data.  This  applies  in  particular  in  circumstances  where,  due  to  the  nature  of  secret 
surveillance, the individual is prevented from seeking review or from taking a direct part in any review 
proceedings prior or during the execution of the surveillance measure. 

153.  The lack of prior independent approval cannot in itself be considered as a substantial shortcoming in 
Korean law with respect to the assessment of an essentially equivalent level of data protection. The 
assessment  of  adequacy depends,  again, on  all  the circumstances of  the case, in  particular on  the 
effectiveness of  ex post  oversight and legal redress as provided  for in the legal framework of  Korea 
(see further sections 4.7 and 4.8). 

4.4 Voluntary disclosures 

154.  According to Article 83(3) TBA, telecommunication service providers  may  voluntarily hand  over so-
called “subscriber  data”80 to national security and law enforcement authorities upon  request. While 
the EDPB notes that cases involving personal data that have been transferred from the EEA to Korea 
are likely to be rare, they still need to be analysed in  order to assess the level of  data protection, as 
already mentioned above. 

                                                             
75 See CJEU, joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others, 6 October 2020, 
para. 124. 
76 See ECtHR, Big Brother Watch and others v. UK, 25 May 2021, ECLI:CE:ECHR:2021:0525JUD005817013, para. 
351: “Bulk interception should be subject to independent authorization at the outset”, “bulk interception should 
be authorized by an independent body; that is, a body which is independent of the executive”. 
77 Only Annex II, section 3.2 contains an explicit declaration for national security purposes when it is specified 
that the limitations and safeguards “ensure that the collection and processing of information is limited to what 
is strictly necessary to achieve a legitimate objective. This excludes any mass and indiscriminate collection of 
personal information for national security purposes”. 
78 See, for example, CJEU joined cases C-203/15 and C-698/15, Tele2 Sverige AB and others, ECLI:EU:C:2016:970. 
79 
for  example,  ECtHR,  Case  of  Roman  Zakharov  v.  Russia,  4  December  2015, 
ECLI:CE:ECHR:2015:1204JUD004714306. 
80 Concerned datasets would be: the name, resident registration number, address and phone number of users, 
the dates on which users subscribe or terminate their subscription as well as user identification codes (used to 
identify the rightful user of computer systems or communication networks). 

See, 

Adopted 

 

32 

 

155.   The EDPB understands  that in these cases the data protection safeguards of PIPA apply and public 
authorities, as well as telecommunications providers, have to comply with these requirements81 and 
that both can be held liable for any infringement of the rights and freedoms of  the concerned data 
subjects82. Furthermore the EDPB understands that telecommunications providers are not required to 
comply with such requests. 

156.  However, with  regard to  the  concept  of  access  to  subscriber  data by  national authorities  for  law 
enforcement as well as and in particular for national security purposes via “voluntary disclosure” of 
telecommunication business  operators, there is a concern of increased risk to the rights and freedoms 
of data subjects, especially with regard to their right to information. 

157.  According to Article 58(1) lit.2 PIPA, the provisions  of  Chapter III through VII shall  not apply  to any 
personal  information  requested  to  be  provided  related  to  national  security.  In  this  respect,  for 
example, the provisions  of  Article 18  (Limitation to  Out-of-Purpose  Use  and  Provision  of  Personal 
Information) and Article 20 (Notification on Sources, etc. of Personal Information Collected from Third 
Parties) of  PIPA are not applicable to such requests. In cases where a request is made by a national 
security  authority,  this  raises  the  question,  on  the  one  hand,  of  whether  Article  58(1)  lit.  2  also 
precludes  the application of PIPA to telecommunications providers  as well. On  the other hand, the 
question  arises whether the exclusion  of the application of Article 20 PIPA in such cases also applies 
to the corresponding  provision  from  Section 3 of  Annex I (Notification for the data where personal 
data have not been obtained from the data subject (Article 20 of the Act)). If this were the case and if 
Article 58(1) lit. 2 also addressed telecommunications providers, there would be a risk, according to 
the available information, that there would be no legal obligation to inform  the data subjects about 
the voluntary disclose.  

158.  The EDPB is therefore concerned about the effectiveness that the information requirements could be 
rendered  ineffective,  making  it  considerably  more  difficult  for  data  subjects  to  assert  their  data 
protection  rights  especially  with  regard  to  judicial  redress.  In  this  respect,  the  EDPB  invites  the 
European Commission  to clarify the scope of the relevant provisions. 

4.5 Further use of information  

159.  The principle  of  purpose  limitation is  a core legal requirement of  data protection. It requires  that 
personal  data is  only  to  be  collected for  specified,  explicit and  legitimate purposes  and not  to  be 
further processed in an incompatible way to those purposes. Furthermore public authorities are under 
EU law permitted to process personal data for the prevention, investigation or prosecution of criminal 
offenses  even if those  data were initially obtained  for different  purpose  if these authorities have a 
legal  basis  to  process  such  data  under  the  relevant  law  and  if  the  further  processing  is  not 
disproportionate83. 

160.  According  to this  the EDPB notes  that the Korean  data protection  framework  provides  for  similar 
safeguards and limitations  to the ones  provided  under EU law in  relation to the further use  of the 
information  collected for  law enforcement and national security purposes,  e.g. Article 3(1)-(2) PIPA 
principle of purpose limitation. 

4.6 Onward transfers and intelligence sharing 

161.  Article 44 GDPR provides that transfers and onward transfers of personal data shall only take place if 
the  level  of  protection guaranteed by  the  GDPR  is  not  undermined.  Thus,  the  level  of  protection 
afforded to personal data transferred from the EEA to Korea must not be undermined by the further 

                                                             
81 See Recitals 164 and 194 of the draft decision. 
82 See Recital 166 of the draft decision. 
83 See Article 4(2) LED. 

Adopted 

 

33 

 

transfer  to  recipients  in  a  third  country,  i.e. onward  transfers  should  be  permitted  only  where a 
continued  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to the  one  provided  under  EU  law is  ensured. 
Consequently, when assessing whether a third country ensures an adequate level of data protection, 
the country’s legal framework for onward  transfers must be taken into account. This  is  undisputed 
and in line with the view of both the European Commission84  and the EDPB.  

162.  In this context, the EDPB takes note that the ECtHR has in its recent decisions  “Big Brother Watch and 
Others v. UK” and “Centrum för Rättvisa v. Sweden” provided guidance85 regarding the data protection 
precautions to be observed in Contracting States when communicating personal data to other parties 
for  law  enforcement  and  national  security  purposes  in  bulk  collection  cases:  “First  of  all,  the 
circumstances  in  which  such  a  transfer  may  take  place  must  be  set  out  clearly  in  domestic  law. 
Secondly, the transferring State must ensure that the receiving State, in handling the data, has in place 
safeguards capable of preventing abuse and disproportionate interference. In particular, the receiving 
State must guarantee the secure storage of the material and restrict its onward disclosure. […] Thirdly, 
heightened safeguards will be necessary when it is clear that material requiring special confidentiality 
– such as confidential journalistic material – is being transferred.”86 

163.  In applying these standards, the ECtHR found in “Centrum för Rättvisa v. Sweden” that the absence of 
any express legal requirement in the interception regime to assess  the necessity and proportionality 
of intelligence sharing for its possible  impact on the right to privacy constitutes a violation of Article 8 
ECHR. The ECtHR criticised that, as a result  of the level  of  generality of  the law, intercept material 
could generally be sent abroad whenever this is considered to be in the national interest irrespective 
of whether the foreign recipient offers an acceptable minimum level of safeguards87. 

164.  Acknowledging that the legal framework of South Korea does  not allow for bulk  interception, still in 
light of the implications of the jurisprudence of the ECtHR as outlined above, the EDPB considers that, 
in addition to the requirements stemming from EU law as interpreted by the CJEU, the ECtHR’s line of 
arguments should  be considered for assessing whether the legal framework for onward transfers to a 
third country provides  for adequate data protection standards. 

4.6.1 Applicable  legal framework  for onward transfers by law enforcement  authorities 

165.  In regard to onward transfers by the competent authorities for law enforcement purposes, the EDPB 
understands from the explanations by the European Commission  that the Section 2 of Annex I of the 
draft decision concerning the limitation of onward transfers is applicable, including when the transfer 
is made on the basis  of a statute other than PIPA. According to this rule,  “if personal information is 
provided to a third party overseas, it may not receive the level of protection guaranteed by the Personal 
Information Protection Act of Korea due to differences in personal information protection systems of 
different countries. Accordingly, such  cases  will  be deemed as  ‘cases where disadvantages  may be 
caused to  the data subject’ mentioned in  Paragraph  4 of  Article 17 of  the Act or ‘cases  where the 
interest of a data subject or third party is infringed unfairly’ mentioned in Paragraph 2 of Article 18 of 
the Act and Article 14(2) of the Enforcement Decree of the same Act. To fulfil the requirements of these 
provisions, the personal information controller and third party must therefore explicitly ensure a level 
of protection equivalent to the Act, including the guarantee of the data subject’s exercise of his/her 
                                                             
84 See Recital 84 et seq. of the draft decision. 
85 The following elements were established on the occasion of the cases Big Brother Watch and Centrum för 
Rättvisa,  which concern bulk interception regimes.  The  requirement of  precautions to  be  taken  when 
communicating material to other parties was already part of the criteria developed by the ECtHR in the context 
of targeted interception and had not been further specified by the ECtHR (see Big Brother Watch and Others v. 
UK, para. 335, 362). 
86 ECtHR, Big Brother Watch and others v. UK, 25 May 2021, ECLI:CE:ECHR:2021:0525JUD005817013, para. 362. 
87 See ECtHR, Centrum för Rättvisa v. Sweden, 25 May 2021, ECLI:CE:ECHR:2021:0525JUD003525208, para. 326. 

Adopted 

 

34 

 

rights in legally binding  documents such as  contracts, even after personal information is transferred 
overseas”88.  

166.  The EDPB welcomes this  provision,  which, assuming  the adequacy of the level of data protection in 
Korea for this purpose, ensures the continuity of a level of protection as essentially afforded under EU 
law for onward transfers. The Commission  has confirmed  that the EDPB’s understanding, namely that 
this  section  of  Annex  I  applies  to  all  onward  transfers  by  the  competent  authorities  for  law 
enforcement purposes,  is  correct. However, the EDPB points  out that it must  be ensured  that this 
regulation provides  for a continued level of protection in practice as there may be uncertainty as to 
which contractual safeguards and obligations or other similar mechanisms can be used to achieve such 
a level of protection in case of processing for law enforcement purposes.  In this regard, it should be 
additionally stated, for example, that personal data may only be shared with the relevant competent 
authorities in the third country.  

167.  Subject to the clarification requested above as to whether KOFIU is covered by the draft decision the 
EDPB notes that the official representation on government access89 explains that, according to Article 
8(1) of the ARUSFTI, the Commissioner of the KOFIU may provide foreign financial intelligence services 
with specified  financial transaction information, if deemed necessary to achieve the purpose  of the 
ARUSFTI90. Article 8 ARUSFTI itself does not provide for an obligation to determine whether and ensure 
that the foreign country offers adequate data protection safeguards. Annex  II does not refer to the 
new section of Annex I in this regard. Therefore, the EDPB calls on the European Commission to clarify 
the interrelation of the relevant section of Annex I on the limitation of onward transfers and the legal 
basis for onward transfers according to the ARUSFTI. 

4.6.2 Applicable  legal framework  for onward transfers for national security purposes  

168.  The draft decision does  not contain any information on the legal framework for onward transfers in 
the field  of  national security. To  this  end, the  EDPB understands  that, unlike  for  law  enforcement 
purposes, the Section 2 of Annex I is not applicable to onward transfers for national security purposes. 
Articles 17 and 18 of PIPA which are subject of the Annex I section in question  are part of Chapter III 
of PIPA which in turn is not applicable to the processing of personal data for national security purposes 
(Article 58(1) PIPA). 

169.  However, the EDPB assumes  that Korea may  need  to  and  does  transmit personal  data to  foreign 
intelligence services for national security purposes,  e.g. in order to cooperate on combatting cross-
border  threats to  national  security,  to  warn  foreign  governments  about  or  to  solicit  their  help  in 
identifying such threats. 

170.  The EDPB understood that, in the view of the European Commission, onward transfers are sufficiently 
regulated in Korean law by the safeguards following from the overarching constitutional framework, 
in  particular the  principles  of  necessity  and  proportionality, as well  as by  the  core  data protection 
principles  regulated in PIPA, such as lawfulness  and fairness  of  processing, purpose  limitation, data 
minimisation,  security  and  the  general  obligations  to  prevent  abuse  and  misuse  of  personal 
information. 

171.  The  EDPB  recognises  and  acknowledges  the  general  applicability  of  these  key  (data  protection) 
principles  but  raises concerns  that these safeguards are being of  a very general nature and do  not 
                                                             
88 Draft decision, Annex I, p. 7. 
89 See draft decision, Annex II. 
90  See draft decision, Annex II, section 2.2.3.2. While such an exchange may only take place subject to the 
condition that the foreign service may not use the information for any purpose other than the original purpose 
of disclosure, and in particular not for a criminal investigation or trial (Article 8(2) ARUSFTI), the Commissioner 
of the KOFIU may, in receipt of a request by a foreign country, give consent to the use of such data for criminal 
investigations or trials for criminal offenses with a prior consent of the Minister of Justice (Article 8(3) ARUSFTI). 

Adopted 

 

35 

 

specifically refer to or address, in a legal basis, the specific circumstances and conditions for onward 
transfers of EEA transferred data for national security purposes. While these general and overarching 
principles  are broadly applicable, the EDPB questions  whether this could  be considered  to meet the 
criteria of clear and precise rules  and to sufficiently  enshrine  effective and enforceable safeguards. 
Especially where government access and processing  of personal  data is  exercised in  secret and the 
inferences  that could  be  drawn from  the data are particularly severe, it is  essential to  have  clear, 
detailed  rules.  The  law  should  indicate  the  scope  of  any  discretion  conferred  on  the  competent 
authorities  and  the  manner  of  its  exercise  with  sufficient  clarity  to  give  the  individual  adequate 
protection. In the Schrems II ruling, the CJEU recalls that a legal basis which permits interference with 
fundamental  rights  must,  in  order  to  satisfy  the  requirements  of  the  principles  of  necessity  and 
proportionality, itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right concerned and lay 
down  clear and precise  rules  governing the scope  and  application of  the  measure in  question  and 
impose  minimum  safeguards91. The EDPB is  therefore concerned  that it is  not sufficient  that such 
safeguards are generally enshrined in higher-ranking law without specifically implementing the notion 
of e.g. proportionality in the respective legal basis itself. 

172.  These  concerns  are supported  by  the above-mentioned  decision  of  the ECtHR, in  which  the court 
found that a general rule without any express requirement to assess necessity and proportionality or 
consider  privacy concerns is  not compatible with the right to privacy pursuant  to Article 8 ECHR. In 
this  regard, the  EDPB notes  that  in  the  law  of  the  case  at  stake  (as  well  as  in  the  law  of  Korea) 
overarching  (constitutionally  guaranteed) principles  of  necessity  and  proportionality  do  exist,  e.g. 
according to the Charter and through the accession to the ECHR.  

173.  The EDPB invites  the European Commission  to clarify  the legal basis,  how  and to  what extent and 
under which specific conditions  intelligence service agencies are obliged to consider privacy concerns 
and  data protection safeguards  prior  to  disclosing  personal  data for  national  security  purposes  to 
foreign  partners.  In  case  such  obligation  is  derived  directly  from  constitutional  principles,  the 
European  Commission  should  further  assess  the  requirements  of  preciseness  and  clarity  of  the 
relevant  law  and  confirm  that  the  general  constitutional  and  data  protection  principles  are 
appropriately applied and implemented. 

4.6.3 International agreements  

174.  The EDPB notes that the European Commission  did not consider, as part of its adequacy assessment, 
the  existence  of  international  agreements  concluded  between  Korea  and  third  countries  or 
international organisations that may provide for  specific provisions  for the international transfer of 
personal data by law enforcement and/or intelligence services to third countries. The EDPB considers 
that the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral agreements with third countries for the purposes of law 
enforcement or intelligence cooperation are likely  to affect the data protection legal framework of 
Korea as assessed. 

175.  The EDPB therefore invites the European Commission  to clarify whether such agreements exist, under 
which  conditions  they  may  be  concluded  and  assess  whether  the  provisions  of  international 
agreements may affect the level of protection afforded to personal data transferred from the EEA to 
Korea  by  the  legislative  framework  and  practices  in  relation  to  overseas  disclosures  for  law 
enforcement and national security purposes. 

4.7 Oversight 

176.  The EDPB notes that the oversight of criminal law enforcement as well as national security authorities 

is ensured by a combination of different internal and external bodies. 

                                                             
91 See Schrems II, paras. 175 and 180. 

Adopted 

 

36 

 

177.  In  this  context, it  is  to  be  noted  that the CJEU  has  repeatedly  stressed  the  need  for  independent 
oversight as an essential component of the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing 
of  their  personal  data.  The  concept  of  independence  encompasses  the  areas  of  institutional 
autonomy, freedom  from  instructions  and  material independence.  In  order to  ensure a  consistent 
monitoring  and  enforcement  of  data  protection  law,  supervisory  authorities  must  have  effective 
powers, including corrective and remedial powers.  

178.  The EDPB agrees with  the conclusion  of  the  European Commission  that, in  an overall  assessment, 
Korea  can  be  considered  to  have  an  independent  and  effective  supervisory  system  even  though 
several  bodies  of  the  supervisory  system  do  not  meet the  above requirements  in  themselves.  For 
example, most of them do not have executive powers, but are limited to mere recommendations, e.g. 
the National Human Rights Commission or the Board of Audits and Inspections. Furthermore, most of 
the respective public bodies are not exclusively data protection institutions, but are usually entrusted 
with other tasks in the area of fundamental rights protection. 

179.  However, according to the European Commission's  explanations, the EDPB notes that the supervision 
of  law enforcement authorities  is comprehensively  and without exception guaranteed by  the PIPC. 
Therefore the PIPC possesses  investigative, remedial and enforcement powers under PIPA and other 
data protection laws (e.g. the CPPA) which apply to the entire area of access to personal dat a by law 
enforcement and national security authorities.  

180.  In this context, the EDPB would like to emphasize once again that in order to exercise their tasks and 
powers, supervisory  authorities need  to be equipped  with sufficient  human, technical and financial 
resources.  In  this  regard,  there  is  unfortunately  a  lack  of  any  information  on  the  designated 
supervisory  bodies, in  particular the PIPC. Therefore, the EDPB repeats its request  to the European 
Commission  to provide further information on the matter.  

181.  Overall, the EDPB would like to note that there are hardly any statements, examples or figures in the 
draft decision regarding the supervisory  activities as well as the legal enforcement of data protection 
law by the supervisory  bodies  in the area of law enforcement and national security. These would be 
helpful in the context of evaluating the effectiveness of the supervisory  bodies. 

4.8 Judicial remedy and redress 

182.  The EDPB recalls that it is essential  for an adequate level of  data protection that data subjects  are 
provided with comprehensive remedies and redress against unauthorized data access or processing. 
These legal remedies must be sufficient to enable the data subject to obtain access to the data stored 
about him or her and to request that it be corrected or deleted. 

183.  In the light of  the Schrems I and Schrems II judgments by the CJEU, it is  clear that in addition to the 
right to turn to competent authorities, effective judicial protection in the meaning of Article 47(1) of 
the Charter is of fundamental importance for the assumption of adequacy of the law of a third country.  

184.  The EDPB recognises that Korea has established various avenues for the execution of individuals’ rights 
of access, retention, deletion and suspension  under PIPA. Those rights can be executed towards the 
controller itself or via a complaint lodged with the PIPC or other supervisory  bodies, e.g. the National 
Human Rights Commission.  Furthermore, the EDPB recognises the possibility  to challenge controllers 
or public authorities’ decision in response to their request on the basis of the Administrative Litigation 
Act. 

185.  In addition,  The EDPB understands  from the  explanations given  by  the European Commission  that 
individuals  may  challenge the actions  of  law enforcement  and national  security authorities  before 

Adopted 

 

37 

 

competent courts under the Administrative Litigation Act and Constitutional Court Act, and have the 
possibility  to obtain compensation for damages under the State Compensation Act92.  

186.  In this context, however, the EDPB is concerned about effective redress for EU individuals  in national 
security cases where no Korean citizen is involved. As noted in paragraph 33 et seq., national security 
authorities are not required to notify data subjects of the collection and processing of their personal 
data. Since it is considerably more difficult to obtain effective legal protection in these cases, the EDPB 
would like to point out that certain legal safeguards are required here if data transferred from the EEA 
is involved. These safeguards must enable data subjects to take effective action against unlawful data 
processing  in  a  legally  secure  manner  without  being  hindered  by  excessively  narrow  procedural 
requirements, e.g., by the imposition  of a burden of proof that they cannot meet without knowledge 
of the processing. Furthermore, data subjects have to be able to turn to a competent body that meets 
the requirements of  Article 47 CFR, i.e. which  is  competent to determine that a data processing  is 
taking place, to verify the lawfulness of the processing, and to have enforceable remedial powers in 
the event the data processing is unlawful. Against this background, a mere right of complaint to the 
NHRC, for example, would not be sufficient. The EDPB therefore calls on the Commission to explain in 
more  detail  how  these  requirements  are  implemented  in  procedural  and  substantive  terms, e.g., 
whether it is possible for data subjects to turn to the PIPC as well as to a court without having to prove 
the data processing in question. 

187.  In addition, the EDPB observes that the draft decision foresees  a complaint referral mechanism, i.e. 
that  EU  individuals  may  submit  a  complaint  to  the  PIPC  through  their  national  data  protection 
authority  or  the  EDPB. The  PIPC  will  then  notify  the  individual  via  the  same  channel  once  the 
investigation is concluded93. The EDPB welcomes the effort to facilitate easier access to redress against 
Korean  national  security  authorities.  At  the  same  time,  the  EDPB advocates  that  such  a  referral 
mechanism  is  channelled  through  the  European  national  data protection  authorities  rather than 
through the EDPB as they are competent and closer to the handling of the individual  complaints. 

188.  Furthermore, the EDPB notes a possible  contradiction with respect to voluntary disclosures. On the 
one  hand, the draft decision  states that individuals  are able to  obtain redress  in  case their data is 
disclosed  unlawfully  following  a  request  for  voluntary  disclosure,  including  against  the  law 
enforcement authority issuing the request94. On the other hand, the draft decision makes reference 
to the requirement of direct impact regarding the individual’s  right to challenge the actions of public 
authorities, listing (only)  binding  disclosure  requests  as an example for a case where administra tive 
action  is  considered  to  directly  impact  on  the  right  to  privacy95.  The  EDPB  understands  from 
explanations  from  the  European  Commission  that  there  is  actually  no  restriction  of  the  redress 
possibilities  against requests for voluntary disclosure and therefore asks the European Commission  to 
further clarify this in the decision, both in the areas of law enforcement and national security (unlike 
the section  on law enforcement, the section on voluntary disclosures  for national security purposes 
does not contain any explicit statement on redress in this context). 

                                                             
92 See Annex II, 3.2.4 in conjunction with 2.4.3. 
93 See Recital 205 and Annex I, p. 19 of the draft decision. 
94 See Recital 166 of the draft decision. 
95 See Recital 181(law enforcement) and Recitals 208 and 181 (national security) of the draft decision. 

Adopted 

 

38 

