
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    05.02.2021
                                Data protection officers from Berlin and Rhineland-Palatinate reject unfounded attacks on the right to informational self-determination - Smoltczyk and Kugelmann: Data protection is a European success storyIn an opinion piece, the Berlin officer for data protection and freedom of information, Maja Smoltczyk, and the Rhineland-Palatinate state officer for data protection contact and Freedom of Information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, against the recent attacks on data protection. "The pandemic shows how data protection has to serve as a scapegoat when things go wrong. Not a day goes by without it being claimed that the pandemic can be easily brought under control if we just trim data protection down," said the data protection officers of Berlin and Rhineland-Palatinate debate would give cause for great concern and important facts would not be sufficiently recognized." The problem is not that the health authorities are still not all connected to the digital infrastructure. It is not a problem that US services want to reserve the right to use the data from to process children for their own, mostly commercial, purposes, claiming instead that privacy advocates want to forbid children from learning.”
Data protection does not stand in the way of social challenges, say Smoltczyk and Kugelmann. It is about protecting the achievements of digitization and civil rights, which are the basis of our free and democratic society. “Data protection is not a super fundamental right that stands above other fundamental rights, but it is a fundamental right. And as a fundamental right, it interacts with the other fundamental rights and has to be constantly rebalanced. It's a good thing that the decision-makers don't make it easy for themselves, because this is what a liberal constitutional state demands, even and especially in times of crisis."
Smoltczyk and Kugelmann emphasize: "Adequate data protection must not fall victim to the virus. Data protection is not a hindrance, but an important regulator and control factor. It contributes to acceptance and trust in the population. The data protection standard in the European Union, which is being imitated worldwide, must be celebrated as a success. You can be proud of this success.”
The full opinion piece is available here.
                                return
                            



