 

 
 
 
Sophie in’t Veld MEP 
European Parliament 
Rue Wiertz 60 
B-1047 Brussels 
Belgium 
 

 

Dear Ms in ‘t Veld, 

25 January 2021 

Ref: OUT2021-0005 

I would like to thank you for your letter of 14 September 2020 regarding the Commission’s  report on 
the review of Directive 2016/681 on the use of passenger name record (PNR) data for the prevention, 
detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, which  was published 
on 24 July 2020. The EDPB also took note of the accompanying Staff Working Document and the case 
studies given to prove that the Directive is contributing positively to its key objectives.  

As main conclusion, the Commission considers that the assessment of the first two years of application 
of the Directive is overall positive and takes the view that no amendments to the PNR Directive should 
be proposed  at this stage. The Commission  also considers that some issues  like a possible  extension 
of the Directive’s scope shall be further assessed. Furthermore, before deciding whether to propose 
a revision, the Commission  wishes  to take into account the results of the on-going evaluation of the 
Advance Passenger Information Directive as well as the outcome of the preliminary ruling requests 
currently before the Court of Justice of the European Union.   

The  Commission’s  conclusion  clearly  contradicts the  opinion  which  the  European  data protection 
authorities had already put forward on 11 April 2018 in a letter of the former Working Party 29 (WP29) 
to the Commission1. The letter was an urge to react on the opinion of the CJEU on the envisaged PNR 
agreement with Canada. In the view of the WP29, the Court’s Opinion, though not  having a formal 
legal effect on other acts of the Union, highlighted deficiencies that could equally be found in other 
EU PNR instruments. While the processing, retention and transfer of PNR data is  generally subject to 
stricter rules in the EU PNR Directive than in the envisaged PNR agreement with Canada, the WP29 
considered in 2018 that the EU PNR Directive is at least partly not in compliance with the requirements 
expressed by the CJEU in its opinion. The EDPB upholds  the former position  of the WP29. Therefore, 
the EDPB has already reiterated its call on the European Commission  to take action, in due time taking 
into account the related CJEU cases currently pending, in order to ensure compliance of all EU PNR 

                                                             
1 https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=51023. 

 

 

1 

 

instruments, including  the EU PNR Directive, with EU law and case-law in a letter of the Chair to the 
European Commission.2 

Your questions regarding the PNR evaluation report get to the heart of the matter and reflect concerns 
which the EDPB also  continues  to share. More specifically, you  raised questions  concerning the big 
discrepancy  between the  total number  of  persons  being  subject  to  the processing  of  PNR data in 
comparison to technical hits and verified hits as well as the small number of case studies provided as 
qualitative evidence. 

The EDPB has raised similar questions and concerns in its letter to the Commission.  Having considered 
the Commission  review report of  the EU PNR Directive, and taking into account the latest CJEU case 
law (La Quadrature du Net and others), the EDPB takes the view that the necessity and proportionality 
of collecting and processing PNR data for each of the purposes set out in the Directive, as referred to 
in its Article 19, is not sufficiently  substantiated and demonstrated. 

Another  question  relates  to  the  recommendations  towards  the  Commission  to  ensure  that 
fundamental rights standards are fully  complied  with, whether the EDPB will provide  advice to the 
European Court of Justice (CJEU) in this case and whether there will be a formal reaction to the review 
report. The latter has been  addressed by  the above-mentioned  letter of the Chair to the European 
Commission.   

Regarding the cases pending at the CJEU, to date, the Court has not asked the EDPB to provide advice 
in  pending  cases  regarding PNR. The  EDPB is  not  party to  these pending  procedures  and  can  only 
submit  its views to these cases if formally called upon  by the Court. However, the EDPB’s letters to 
the Commission  and previous positions  expressed are all publicly available.  

With regard to recommendable actions to ensure that fundamental rights standards are fully complied 
with, the EDPB has already and repeatedly recommended to review all PNR instruments  and bring 
them into compliance with EU law and case law. This has  to be the first step to be initiated by the 
European Commission which should then ensure that Member States respect the requirements set by 
those updated instruments. 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

                                                             
2 EDPB letter to the European Commission of 22 January 2021, https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/letters/edpb-letter-european-commission-commission-report-review_en 

 

2 

