
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/27/2019
                                Data protection supervision as a network - the LfDI in Brussels On September 18, 2019, the event "GDPR - cross-border cooperation of the European data protection supervisory authorities" of the Independent Data Protection Center Saarland took place in the representation of the Saarland to the EU in Brussels. There, among others, the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, who is also this year's chairman of the Data Protection Conference (DSK).©
                            UDZ Saarland The General Data Protection Regulation has been in effect in all EU member states since May 25, 2018 and requires close cooperation between the European data protection supervisory authorities. Since more than a year has now passed since the General Data Protection Regulation came into effect, the event offered the opportunity to exchange experiences gained so far. The necessary expertise and experience was provided by the speakers Dr. Horst Heberlein, representative of the European Commission for Justice and Consumers; Wilfried Heyen, Data Protection Officer at the Ministry of the German-speaking Community in Belgium, and finally Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate. While Wilfried Heyen reported on his experiences from the perspective of a data protection officer of an authority and at the same time from a Belgian perspective, Prof. Kugelmann presented the cross-border cooperation from the perspective of a German supervisory authority and reported on the experiences of practical application. dr Horst Heberlein, who was involved in the development process of the General Data Protection Regulation, represented the European perspective. This was followed by a constructive discussion with the audience.Prof. dr Kugelmann states: “European integration is essential for the enforcement of European data protection law, which a year and a half ago was still very different in the EU member states. The effectiveness of the General Data Protection Regulation throughout the European Union also offers the great advantage that the rights of citizens can also be enforced across borders. This requires effective cooperation between data protection supervisory authorities in the EU. The experience gained must be evaluated here and further joint efforts must be made.”
                                return
                            



