1/11

 File No.: EXP202101449

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202101449

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: The CITY COUNCIL OF MÓSTOLES, (hereinafter, the claimant party),
On July 29, 2021, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection after receiving a claim in the consumer area presented by
B.B.B.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

The claim is directed against the ACADEMIA ***ACADEMIA.1 and acting in
representation thereof, A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed).

The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The ACADEMY ***ACADEMIA.1 carries out a summer activity aimed at
minors organized and taught by the aforementioned academy.

The documentation provided includes the contract whose content has been
predisposed by the academy and that includes, among others, a clause (eighth) where
indicated:

“Authorization for the taking and use of photographs and recordings of students who
could be used for...

a) Uploads to our website, blogs and video channels or any other support
official online of the center so that families and anyone interested in what
is done in the activities can see or download them if they wish.

b) Publish and present them in educational research papers by the center and/or
teachers who are responsible for the activity.

c) Publish them in different communication media by the different
official bodies that carry out a specific activity to certify that
has developed in our center.”

Said clause is linked to the general consent of the Contract of
Activities, so it does not comply with the provisions of the protection regulations
of data, since each consent should be given separately.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on September 20, 2021, said communication was
claim to the claimed party, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform the
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on October 6, 2021 as
It is stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On December 2, 2021, this Agency received a response letter
indicating the following:

The city council exposes a possible breach of the regulations for the protection of
data basing this on the eighth clause of the contract that B.B.B. made it easy for them.

Clause from which the authorization for the taking and use of photographs and
student recordings and their use.

It is stated by the respondent that the contracting parties at all times are
empowered to approve or decline the use of the aforementioned images without
be conditioned to contracting the service, and that the aforementioned images
They will only be published on the academy's sites and social networks and not by any
other way.

THIRD: On December 2, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, in its article 4.11 defines the consent of the
interested party as "any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

In this sense, article 6.1 of the LOPDGDD, establishes that "in accordance with the
provided in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, consent is understood
affected person, any manifestation of free, specific, informed and inappropriate will.
equivocal by which he accepts, either through a statement or a clear action
affirmative, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

For its part, article 6 of the GDPR establishes the following:

"1. The processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:
nes:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

 f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests
interests do not prevail or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interest
cases that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested
sado be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

On the other hand, article 7 of the RGPD, in relation to the conditions for the
consent, states the following:

"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge
You must be able to demonstrate that you consented to the processing of your data
personal.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written statement
that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be presented in
in such a way that it is clearly distinguishable from other matters, in an intelligible and
easy access and using clear and simple language. No part will be binding
of the statement that constitutes an infringement of this Regulation.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The
Withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party
will be informed of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. When assessing whether the consent has been freely given, it will be taken into account in the
greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the performance of a contract,
including the provision of a service, is subject to consent to the processing of
personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said contract.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

III

6/11

In the present case, the complaining party denounces the claimed party because in the
contract for summer activities for minors carried out by the latter, the parents
of said minors must sign a contract that does not dissociate the consent to
the realization of said summer activities object of the contract, of the consent or
not for taking photographs of minors and using them as advertising.

Therefore, according to the available evidence, it is considered
that we are facing an illicit treatment of personal data, since the collection and
publication of images of minors requires a differentiated consent,
of both taking pictures and possible publicity, therefore, of the
facts stated there should be at least three requests for consent
clearly differentiated throughout the contract to comply with the regulations of
protection of personal data: first for the formalization of the contract,
second for taking pictures, and third on the advertising purpose of the
themselves.

Its non-compliance supposes the infringement of article 7 of the RGPD indicated in the
foundation of law II.

IV

Article 72.1 c) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) Failure to comply with the requirements of article 7 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

v

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Pursuant to these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose on the defendant entity
a penalty of 500 euros (five hundred euros), for the infringement of article 7 of the RGPD,
regarding the processing of personal data, without the consent of the affected party. A
In accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, by the
alleged infringement of article 7 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
and for prescription purposes, by article 72.1 c) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor to C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sec-
Public Tor (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimants and their documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous Inspection actions.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

sanction that could correspond would be 500 euros (five hundred euros) without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 granting it a
hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present
tests you deem appropriate. In your statement of arguments, you must provide
your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 100 euros. With the application of
this reduction, the sanction would be established at 400 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
at 100 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
400 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 300 euros (three hundred euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
previously, 400 or 300 euros, you must make it effective by paying it into the
account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the
reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is accepted. Also, you must
send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

>>

SECOND: On March 29, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 300 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202101449, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

