1/9

 File No.: EXP202105769

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated December 13, 2021, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection a written complaint filed by the GUARDIA
CIVIL - PUESTO DE VILLABLANCA (hereinafter, the complainant), through which
files complaint against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). the record
complaint dated November 30, 2021, shows that the defendant is
responsible for a video surveillance system with cameras aimed at public roads,
located at ***ADDRESS.1, and that it is not duly signposted through the
Mandatory informative posters of the video-monitored area.

The documents provided by the claimant are the following:

-

Report made by the FFCCSE in which it is shown that these
same non-compliances were previously detected, denounced
before this Agency, and that they have a written document from the AEPD in which
communicated to the Civil Guard that the defendant had been informed of his
obligations regarding the protection of personal data without the now
reported has proceeded to correct said breaches.

- Photo report

SECOND: Likewise, it should be stated that on September 30, 2020,
received in this Agency a complaint filed by the CIVIL GUARD - POSITION OF
*** LOCATION.1 for these same facts that gave rise to the processing of the
reference file E/08637/2020. Within the framework of said file, it was sent
written to the defendant, duly notified on October 23, 2020, in the
that he was informed of the reception of the complaint at the Agency for some facts that
would violate the data protection regulations, with regard to the treatment of
images and where you could find out about the requirements to carry out
carry out personal data processing through this type of device.

THIRD: On March 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD and Article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the established rules
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the term granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The defendant is responsible for a video surveillance system with
cameras facing public roads, located at ***ADDRESS.1, and it does not have
duly signposted by means of the mandatory area information posters
video surveillance.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the reported video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of treatment,
provides that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of data must be restricted
excessive or proceed to suppress them.

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

Article 13, sections 1 and 2, of the RGPD, establishes the information that must be provided
to the interested party at the time of collecting their data. In the case of treatments
of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in the
video-monitored areas, an informative badge located in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the
that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

The content and design of the informative label must comply with the provisions of the
Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, referred to
specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the processing of
images in public places can only be made -if applicable and prior to the
compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting the
conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if the
cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, even if the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimum and
essential of the public road, which is inevitably captured.

For this exception on the protection of private spaces to be applicable,
There must be an alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the responsible
of the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the installation,
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is the minimum possible.
In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces,
adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

In relation to the above, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“normative”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both
available in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

III

In the present case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it. In accordance with
the evidence that is available and that has not been distorted during the
sanctioning procedure, the defendant is responsible for a system of
video surveillance with cameras oriented to public thoroughfares, located at ***ADDRESS.1, and
it is not duly signposted by means of the mandatory informative posters
video surveillance area. Based on the foregoing, the facts entail a violation
of what is established in articles 5.1 c) and 13 of the RGPD, which implies a commission of
both offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)

b) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

(…)”

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious:

“a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679;

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law;”

IV

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with
article 83 of the RGPD -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of the GDPR, where applicable, in a certain way and within a
specified term -article 58. 2 d). According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD,
the measure provided for in article 58.2 d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the
sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

In this case, based on the facts set forth, it is considered that the sanction
that should be imposed is an administrative fine for each of the
offenses committed. The fine imposed must be, in each individual case,
effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with article 83.1 of the RGPD. finally
determining the administrative fine to be imposed, the provisions of the
article 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity
f) Affectation of the rights of minors
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
interested".
exist

  among those

controversies

any

Y

 

 

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of articles 5.1 c) and 13 of the RGPD, it allows a fine to be set
€300 (THREE HUNDRED EUROS) for each of them.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for the infraction of articles
5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, both typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, two sanctions
€300 (THREE HUNDRED EUROS) respectively, which adds up to a total amount of
€600 (SIX HUNDRED EUROS).

SECOND: REQUIRE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this body the adoption of the following measures:

- The removal of the camera from the current location, or its reorientation towards
your particular area.
- The placement of the informative device in the video-monitored areas or complete
the information offered in it (it must identify, at least, the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
foreseen in said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces.
- Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned
GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, dated 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the procedure number that appears in
the heading of this document, in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000
0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, it will be processed
collection in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

