Case number: NAIH / 2020/200/5.
(NAIH / 2019/3910.)

Subject: Partially successful application
tax decision

The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority)
hereinafter referred to as “the Applicant”) on 22 October 2019, hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”).
initiated in connection with the violation of the rights of the Applicant as a data subject and the Applicant
extended ex officio to general data management practices for public surveillance cameras
take the following decisions in the data protection authority procedure:
I. The Authority
IN ITS DECISION
grant the applicant 's application in part, and
1) finds that the Applicant has not provided adequate information to the Applicant
To exercise its right to restrict data processing dated November 7, 2018
measures taken at his request and blocked under that right
on December 10, 2018, in connection with the restriction of data processing in connection with camera recordings
and the deletion of the recordings and did not provide adequate information to the
the right to publish copies of recordings;
2) finds that the Applicant has not provided adequate information to the Applicant
Related to your application for blocking dated November 7, 2018, dated March 1, 2019
measures;
3) finds that the Applicant has not complied with the Applicant on 1 March 2019
request to exercise the right of access;
4) finds that the Applicant has not provided adequate information to the Applicant
By application dated 12 April 2019 for the release of camera recordings
measures relating to
5) instructs the Applicant to exercise the Applicant's right of access
application.
II. In its decision, the Authority states that it concerns the cameras examined ex officio
with regard to data processing, the Applicant violated the principle of accountability.
III. In its decision, the Authority will reject the part of the application concerning the imposition of a data protection fine,
however, the Applicant ex officio
HUF 2,000,000, ie HUF 2 million
data protection fine
obliges to pay.

2

ARC. The Authority
IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
terminate the data protection authority procedure in the part of the Application that the Authority considers
find Budapest VII. district Police Headquarters on the report of the Applicant
which expressly contained his request for proof
that the police station request the requested camera footage from the Applicant.
***
The taking of the measure provided for in point I. 5) shall be performed by the Applicant from the taking of the measure
You must certify in writing within 30 days, together with the supporting evidence, that:
Towards an authority.
The Authority shall impose a data protection fine within 30 days of the final adoption of this Decision
centralized revenue collection target settlement forint account (10032000-01040425-00000000
Centralized direct debit IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000)
to pay. When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/200. JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the Applicant fails to meet the obligation to pay the fine within the time limit, the above
is required to pay a late payment surcharge on the account number. The amount of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest,
which corresponds to the central bank base rate in force on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay
me.
The obligation provided for in point I. 5) and the data protection fine and the late payment allowance are not fulfilled
the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
I., II. and III. and Annex IV to this Decision. by order pursuant to
There is no administrative remedy against them, but they are within 30 days of notification
with the application addressed to the Metropolitan Court independently, in a separate administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For non-personal tax exemptions, judicial review
the fee for the proceedings is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I. 1. The Applicant has applied to the Authority, according to which it is operated by the Applicant
In a bar called […], the bar's security guards attacked him and inflicted light bodily harm on him.
The Applicant, in his view, this case was recorded in the bar building and the
Operated by the Applicant - otherwise, in the Applicant's opinion, illegally,
cameras that also monitor public areas, made a report in which Budapest VII. district
He instructed his police station to request the recordings made by these cameras and at the same time
he also asked for the cameras to be blocked pending further action by the police. The Applicant in this case

3

in the context of public space operated by the Applicant and in the opinion of the Applicant
complained about the lack of information about cameras that illegally monitor them.
The Applicant further complained that the dated 7 November 2018 recorded by these cameras
related to his application for blocking dated 1 March 2019
request for information and access to your personal data, and
No request for access, data restriction and release dated April 12, 2019
received a substantive reply from the Applicant only on 23 April 2019 informing him that
as no request was received from either the Applicant or the police,
Applicant deleted previously locked recordings.
In his request, the Applicant requested the Authority to initiate an official data protection procedure,
in which in its decision establish the failure of the Applicant with regard to the rights of the data subject,
in addition to imposing a fine, and that the Authority contact Budapest VII. district
Police Headquarters in connection with the record of the Applicant 's report, which
expressly included his motion for proof that the police request the
He was asked to take camera shots, but the police did not comply with his request.
I. 2. In its order to initiate the data protection authority procedure, the Authority notified a
He invited the applicant to make a statement and provide information in order to clarify the facts.
According to the Statement of the Applicant, it does not operate and has not operated a public space monitor
cameras, but on the basis of a legitimate interest in terms of security - the office building or the Applicant
protection of property and the physical integrity of persons in the monitored area
and in order to protect his property, he placed cameras to monitor the entrances, which
parts of the public areas were obscured from the field of vision, while the parts of the non-obscured ornamental stones were obscured
private areas belonging to the Applicant's registered office. In support of these, the Candidate
attached a photo of the cameras monitoring the entrances and the snapshots they took, the right one
the interest balance test carried out to prove the interest and the site plan of the property and the
copy of title deed.
According to the Applicant's statement about the cameras and the data processing related to the surveillance a
pictograms at the entrances and data management available to visitors at the reception
information - the version of which in force during the examined period was sent by the Applicant to the Authority
inform those concerned by means of a
According to the Applicant's statement, by maintaining the cameras and operating the cameras
contracted professional companies to conclude data processing contracts, which
contracts were also attached to the Authority.
According to the Applicant's statement, he received a request from the Applicant on 7 November 2018,
in which he requested that the camera recordings concerning him be blocked and then, at the request of the police
to the investigating authority. The Applicant's letter quoted the then applicable
on the protection of persons and property and on the rules governing the activities of private investigators
2005 CXXXIII. (hereinafter: the Act), according to which - the then
the law of the person whose rights or legitimate interests are affected by the camera recording
or by proving a legitimate interest, the data may not be requested by its operator
destroy or delete it. At the request or request of an authority, the recorded
image must be sent to the authority without delay, but an official request
in the absence of thirty days, the recordings shall be deleted. The Applicant is still on the same day
replied to the Applicant that he would consult his data protection expert and apply,
however, he also suggested to the Applicant that he make a police complaint because
may only issue camera recordings to the authorities at the official request of the police. The Applicant e

4

However, unlike the reply letter, it was sent to the Authority at the request of the Applicant
according to the minutes, although without informing the Applicant - still 7 November 2018.
locked the recordings on the day of and awaited the police request indicated by the Applicant. With respect
however, that neither the Applicant nor the police for months thereafter
applied for the blocked recordings, the Applicant deleted them. On this fact the Applicant
however, he also did not provide any separate information to the Applicant or to his March 1, 2019.
access to information and personal data relating to your request for blocking dated
and access, data processing restrictions and
application for admission - late acknowledged by the applicant - only April 2019
On the 23rd day he provided information that, as neither the Applicant nor the police
no request was received, therefore the Applicant canceled the blocked on 7 November 2018
recordings in the Svv. in accordance with its rules.
The Applicant further requested the Authority to provide the data protection authority in the proceedings
it is established that the Applicant has committed an infringement and in the opinion of the Authority
the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority should note that, in addition to not
operates and has not operated public surveillance cameras - as requested by the Applicant
the camera recordings were blocked by the Applicant, but the recordings were made in accordance with the Act in force at that time.
after thirty days, and therefore the Applicant three and a half months
the Applicant could not respond to the subsequent request for data processing restriction and release
other than that the recordings have been deleted. In addition, during the data processing, the Applicant a
to the best of his knowledge, he sought to comply with the law, and despite the fact that the Applicant
information was indeed not adequate in all respects, the Applicant - to be prevented
future recurrence of similar cases - related to the exercise of the rights of the data subject
reviewed work instructions, supplemented them, and retrained staff
done. He requested to be taken into account in the possible imposition of a data protection fine
it is also against him neither in connection with the exercise of the rights of the data subject nor in any other way
no formal proceedings have been instituted in a data protection case before, and that so far, and this
continue to cooperate fully with the Authority to clarify the facts.
II. Applicable legal provisions
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the general data protection regulation applies to the processing of data under the present case.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. Act (a
hereinafter: Infotv.) pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Decree therein
shall apply with the additions set out in the provisions set out in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, upon request, initiate an official data protection procedure and of its own motion
initiate proceedings against the data protection authority. The data protection authority procedure is the general administrative
CL of 2016 on Public Order. (hereinafter: Ákr.) shall apply with the additions specified in the Infotv. and with the exceptions according to the general data protection decree.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (2): “Application to initiate official data protection proceedings
Article 77 (1) and Article 22 (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted in certain cases. "

5

Under Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: 'Other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a
supervisory authority, in particular where he has his habitual residence, place of employment or presumption
in the Member State of the offense, if the person concerned considers that his or her personal
processing of personal data infringes this Regulation. "
Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation states: “Personal data shall:
(a) be processed lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject
("legality, fairness and transparency");
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; not in accordance with Article 89 (1)
considered incompatible with the original purpose for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, scientific
and further processing for historical research or statistical purposes ("purpose limitation");
(c) be appropriate and relevant to the purposes for which the data are processed; and
they should be limited to what is necessary ("data saving");
(d) be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures must be taken
in order to ensure that personal data are inaccurate for the purposes of data processing
deleted or corrected immediately ("accuracy");
(e) stored in a form which permits identification of data subjects for personal purposes only
allows the time necessary to achieve the purposes of data processing; personal information than this
longer storage can only take place if personal data
in accordance with Article 89 (1) for archiving in the public interest, scientific and
will be carried out for historical research or statistical purposes, those covered by this Regulation
appropriate technical and organizational arrangements to protect their rights and freedoms
subject to the implementation of measures ("limited storage");
(f) be handled in such a way that appropriate technical or organizational measures are taken
ensure the adequate security of personal data, the data is unauthorized
or unlawful handling, accidental loss, destruction, or damage
protection against privacy ("integrity and confidentiality"). "
Under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The controller shall be responsible for
shall be able to demonstrate such compliance
("Accountability"). "
Under Article 12 (1) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation: '1. The controller
take appropriate measures to provide the data subject with personal data
all the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and 34.
Each information pursuant to Article 1 shall be concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible
in a clear and comprehensible manner, in particular for children
for any information. The information shall be provided in writing or otherwise, including as appropriate
including the electronic path. Oral information may be provided at the request of the data subject, provided that:
that the identity of the data subject has been otherwise established.
2. The controller shall facilitate the processing of the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. exercise of their rights under this Article. Article 11 (2)
In the cases referred to in paragraph 15, the controller shall to exercise their rights under this Article
may not refuse to comply with his request unless he proves that he has not
able to identify.
3. The controller shall, without undue delay, but in any case upon receipt of the request,
shall inform the data subject within one month of the following an application under Article
measures. If necessary, taking into account the complexity of the application and the number of applications,
this period may be extended by a further two months. The extension of the time limit is
controller within one month of receipt of the request, stating the reasons for the delay
inform the data subject within If the application has been submitted by electronic means, the information shall be provided
if possible, by electronic means, unless otherwise requested by the data subject.

6

If the controller does not act on the data subject 's request without delay, but
shall inform the data subject no later than one month after receipt of the request
the reasons for not taking action and the fact that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with one of the
supervisory authority and may exercise its right of judicial review
5. The information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15 to 22 and 34
the measure shall be provided free of charge. If the data subject's request is clearly unfounded
- due in particular to its repetitive nature - excessive, the data controller, depending on the information requested or
administrative costs of providing information or taking the requested action:
(a) charge a reasonable fee, or
(b) refuse to act on the application.
The burden of proving that the request is manifestly unfounded or excessive is on the controller.
6. Without prejudice to Article 11, where the controller has reasonable doubts as to the application of Articles 15 to 21, article
the identity of the natural person submitting the application under
may request the information necessary to confirm his identity. "
According to Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: '(1) If the data subject is
personal data is collected from the data subject, the data controller shall obtain the personal data
provide the data subject with all of the following information at the time:
(a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, if any, of the controller 's representative;
(b) the contact details of the Data Protection Officer, if any;
(c) the purpose of the intended processing of the personal data and the legal basis for the processing;
(d) in the case of processing based on Article 6 (1) (f), the controller or a third party
legitimate interests of a party;
(e) where applicable, the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller is a third country or international organization
personal data and to the Commission’s compliance decision
existence or absence thereof, or in Article 46, Article 47 or the second subparagraph of Article 49 (1)
in the case of the transfer referred to in the first subparagraph, an indication of the appropriate and suitable guarantees,
and the means by which copies may be obtained or made available
reference.
2. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall process personal data
at the time of acquisition, in order to ensure fair and transparent data management
provide the data subject with the following additional information:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, that period
aspects of its definition;
(b) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
access, rectification, erasure or restriction of their processing and may object to such
against the processing of personal data and the right of the data subject to data portability;
(c) information based on Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2) (a);
in the case of data processing, the right to withdraw the consent at any time, which
does not affect the lawfulness of the processing carried out on the basis of the consent prior to the withdrawal;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority;
(e) that the provision of personal data is required by law or by a contractual obligation
based on or a precondition for concluding a contract and whether the person concerned is obliged to be personal
data and the possible consequences of providing the data
failure;
(f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information on the significance of such processing and on the data subject
its expected consequences. "
Under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation: '1. The data subject shall have the right to:
receive feedback from the data controller on the processing of your personal data

7

is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data
against its treatment;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information about the significance of such data processing and what it is for the data subject
with expected consequences.
(2) If personal data are transferred to a third country or to an international organization
the data subject is entitled to be informed of the transfer
appropriate guarantees in accordance with Article 46.
(3) The data controller shall receive a copy of the personal data which are the subject of the data processing
make it available. For further copies requested by the data subject, the data controller shall be the administrative one
may charge a reasonable fee based on costs. If provided by the data subject electronically
the information shall be made available in a widely used electronic format
unless the person concerned requests otherwise.
4. The right to request a copy referred to in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect others
rights and freedoms. "
Under Article 18 of the General Data Protection Regulation: '1. The data subject shall have the right to request
the controller restricts data processing if one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject disputes the accuracy of the personal data, in which case the limitation shall be limited to that period
which allows the controller to verify the accuracy of personal data;
(b) the processing is unlawful and the data subject objects to the deletion and requests it instead
restrictions on the use of
(c) the controller no longer needs the personal data for the purpose of processing the data, but is concerned
requires them to bring, assert or defend legal claims; obsession
(d) the data subject has objected to the processing in accordance with Article 21 (1); in this case the restriction
it shall apply for as long as it is established that the controller has a legitimate reason
take precedence over the legitimate reasons of the data subject.
(2) If the processing is subject to a restriction pursuant to paragraph 1, such personal data shall be:
except with the consent of the data subject or for the purpose of bringing legal actions,
or the protection of the rights of another natural or legal person
or in the important public interest of the Union or of a Member State.
3. The controller shall, at the request of the data subject to whom the data subject has been restricted pursuant to paragraph 1
prior notice of the lifting of the restriction on data processing. "
According to Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The data controller or
Union or Member State law applicable to the processor may restrict the
12–22. Articles 34 and 34 and Articles 12 to 22. with the rights set out in Article
the rights and obligations set out in Article 5 in
obligations if the restriction respects fundamental rights and freedoms

8

necessary and proportionate measure to protect the following
in a democratic society:
(a) national security;
b) national defense;
(c) public security;
(d) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses; or
enforcement of criminal sanctions, including against threats to public security
protection and prevention of these dangers;
(e) other important general interest objectives of general interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular:
Important economic or financial interests of the Union or of a Member State, including monetary,
budgetary and fiscal issues, public health and social security;
(f) protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
g) in the case of regulated professions, the prevention, investigation and detection of ethical violations
and conducting related procedures;
(h) in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g), even occasionally,
control, inspection or regulatory activity related to the provision of
(i) the protection of the data subject or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others;
(j) enforcement of civil claims. "
The Svv. Pursuant to Section 31 (6): “A person whose right or legitimate interest is in the image, sound or
recording of images and sound or other personal data, (2), (3) and (4)
image, sound and image and sound recordings and other
within three working days, thirty and sixty days after the recording of personal data
request that the data not be destroyed by the controller, proving his right or legitimate interest
or do not delete it. Court, public prosecutor, investigating authority, preparatory body or
to record or request information from another authority on the recorded image, sound and image and
sound recording and other personal data to the court or authority without delay
to be sent. If a request or request for information is made within thirty days of
non-destruction has not been requested, the recorded image, sound and image and
sound recordings and other personal data shall be destroyed or deleted, unless
The time limit laid down in paragraph 3 or 4 shall not expire. '1
Under Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: 'The supervisory authority
acting in its corrective capacity:
(a) warn the controller or processor that certain data processing operations are planned
its activities are likely to infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
(b) condemn the controller or the processor if he or she has breached his or her data processing activities
the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with the conditions laid down in this Regulation
request for the exercise of his rights;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation;
(e) instruct the controller to inform the data subject of the data protection incident;
(f) temporarily or permanently restrict the processing, including the prohibition of the processing;
(g) order personal data in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 respectively
rectification or erasure of data and restrictions on data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
shall notify the addressees with whom it is addressed in accordance with paragraph 1 and Article 19
or with whom personal data have been communicated;

1

The Svv. Based on the normative text in force from 1 July 2018 to 25 April 2019.

9

(h) withdraw a certificate or instruct a certification body in accordance with Articles 42 and 43
revoke a certificate issued by the. or instruct the certification body not to issue the
a certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph; and
(j) order the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
suspension. "
Under Article 83 (2) and (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation:
2. Administrative fines shall be imposed in accordance with Article 58 (2), depending on the circumstances of the case
It shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in points (a) to (h) and (j). When deciding
whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or the amount of the administrative fine
In each case, due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by and affected by the infringement
the extent of the damage suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
and the technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular that:
whether the breach was reported by the controller or processor and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, on the same subject matter
- has ordered one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2), the person in question
compliance with measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as:
financial gain or avoidance as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
[…]
5. Infringements of the following provisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall not exceed 20 000 000
With an administrative fine of EUR 1 million or, in the case of undertakings, the previous financial year in full
up to 4% of its annual worldwide turnover,
the higher amount shall be charged:
(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
(c) the transfer of personal data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
transmission in accordance with Articles 44 to 49. in accordance with Article
d) the IX. obligations under the law of the Member States adopted pursuant to this Chapter;
(e) the instructions of the supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58 (2) or the temporary processing of data
or a request to permanently restrict or suspend the flow of data
non-compliance or failure to provide access in breach of Article 58 (1). "
Infotv. 75 / A. §: “the Authority shall, in accordance with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
shall exercise the powers set out in paragraph 1, taking into account the principle of proportionality, in particular:

10

by the law on the processing of personal data or by the European Union
in the event of a first breach of the requirements laid down in a mandatory act of the
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
take action by alerting the controller or processor. "
III. Decision
III. 1. The Applicant's right to restrict data processing
Pursuant to Article 18 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
that, at his request, the controller restricts the processing if the controller no longer needs it
personal data for data processing purposes, but the data subject requires them for legal claims
to present, validate or defend.
For information on how to provide information on data protection restrictions, see
data controller obligations are detailed in Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation also sets out its specific provisions
cases in the existence of which the rights of the data subject may be restricted, such as data processing
the right to restrict.
Furthermore, pursuant to Article 18 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is
the data subject at whose request the data processing has been restricted, on the lifting of the data processing restriction
inform you in advance.
In the present case, on November 7, 2018, the Applicant § 31 (6)
with reference to the fact that it had initiated legal proceedings, requesting that the
that “pending further action by the investigating authority, the entrance to the bar and the street section
please keep all camera recordings and then unchanged on call
publish the recordings of the cameras shown in Figures 5 and 6, which record the point of entry. "
The Applicant complied with the Applicant's request and on 7 November 2018
restricted the processing of data by blocking the recordings specified by the Applicant
in order to hand them over to the competent authority. THE
However, the Applicant did not inform the Applicant about it, only during the clarification of the facts
supported by a protocol on the restriction with the Authority.
Subsequently, also a statement to the Authority and the destruction of the data sent
on the basis of the minutes it can be established that the Applicant annulled it on 10 December 2018
recordings locked on November 7, 2018. However, the Applicant does not agree on this either
informed the Applicant.
The Applicant has subsequently approached several times - requesting information on the blocking,
with a request for access and then for a copy of the recordings - by e-mail to the
Applicant, who, however, only informed the Applicant on 23 April 2019 that,
as no request was received from him or the investigating authority,
On 10 December 2018, the applicant deleted the recordings blocked on 7 November 2018.
As a reason for the cancellation of the recordings, the Applicant § 31 (6)
on the basis of which provision the legislature essentially provided for the possibility of
the data subject to request the blocking of the recordings by proving his right or legitimate interest. At
the controller had to block the recording and, if so, by a court or an authority

11

required a recording during the proceedings, it had to be sent. If the court or the
authority has not requested the recordings within thirty days, the controller shall request the recordings
had to be annulled, so it was appropriate to initiate court or official proceedings
to make express reference to this special circumstance and to bring it to the attention of the court or authority seised
to request admission within that period. If the court or authority did not seek it
data manager, the recordings had to be deleted.
The Svv. therefore, in view of this provision, the Applicant deleted the recordings after the lock-up
after thirty days, as no request was received from the police or the Applicant.
However, in this period of November and December 2018, the general was already applicable
Data Protection Regulation - from 25 May 2018. However, by 2019 there are many left
legislation containing a (sectoral) data protection regulation, such as the Szvtv. general
"alignment" with the Data Protection Regulation, the changes to which only entered into force on 26 April 2019
into force. Until this period, however, the Svv. the General Data Protection Regulation
had to be interpreted in the light of. As a result, the Svv. Section 31 (6), however, provided that
if the court or authority has not requested the recordings within thirty days, the
data controller to destroy locked recordings, the general data protection regulation of data management
provisions on the exercise of the right to restrict
and it follows that for the purpose of bringing, enforcing or
shall be kept locked up for the period necessary for the protection of the person concerned, for example until the end of the legal proceedings in question
recordings, they cannot be deleted.
The provisions of the General Data Protection Decree for Hungarian legal entities from 25 May 2018
directly applicable, except for those for its full application and implementation
additional provisions are required under the national law of each Member State. In addition
the general data protection regulation gives Member States some scope, to a limited extent
to lay down additional or different rules
The exercise of the rights of those affected did not fall within this scope, nor did the Member States, including Hungary
authority to restrict the exercise of the rights of the data subject, therefore the Act Section 31 (6)
could not be applied if the data subject had requested the data controller to take camera recordings
not to delete or destroy it.
Consequently, the Authority concludes that the Applicant is a general data protection regulation
contrary to the rules of the applicant, deleted by the Applicant and blocked by the Applicant
thirty days after the Applicant's request for blocking.
The Authority therefore finds that the Applicant has breached the general data protection
Article 18 (1) (c) of that Regulation.
Furthermore, given that the Applicant did not provide a timely and adequate and transparent
information on the basis of a request from the Applicant to exercise his / her right as a data subject
that it did not block the recordings requested by the Applicant
in advance that it will lift the restriction on data management and will delete the recordings
moreover, it has not been facilitated by Articles 15 to 22 of the relevant General Data Protection Regulation. rights under this Article
but explicitly prevented it by deleting the recordings, the Authority notes that
that the Applicant has infringed Article 12 (1) to (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and
Article 18 (3).
III. 2. Applicant's right of access
III. 2. 1. Pursuant to the right of access under Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
the data subject has the right to receive feedback from the controller that he or she is personal

12

whether your data is being processed and, if such data is being processed, you have the right to
have access to your personal data and data management information.
Regarding how to provide information about data management, your data controllers
obligations, as well as the right to restrict data processing, are general
Article 12 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Article 23 of the General Data Protection Regulation also sets out the specific cases that
the rights of the data subject, such as the right of access, may be restricted.
In the present case, the Applicant on March 1, 2019 sent an e-mail to the General Privacy Officer
requested information from the Applicant referring to Article 15 of the Regulation
what personal data you handle and to whom and when you transferred this personal data to
Requested. The Applicant also previously requested, on 8 November 2018, the general
restriction under Article 18 of the Data Protection Regulation, ie the blocking of recordings
requested information on his application and requested that the block be maintained, in view of that
also that he did not receive it after his correspondence with the Applicant dated 7 November 2018
information.
However, the Applicant did not reply to this e - mail from the Applicant either, claiming that
this letter was somehow mixed up, only in an email sent on 23 April 2019
he informed him that, since nothing had been received from him or the investigating authority
request, therefore the Applicant deleted the recordings blocked on 7 November 2018. THE
However, at the request of the Applicant to exercise the right of access, the Applicant shall do nothing
did not inform the Applicant of the reasons for not taking action and that
he may lodge a complaint with the Authority and exercise his right to a judicial remedy. It follows that
The Authority finds that the Applicant has not complied with the Applicant's request for access,
in breach of Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation and also in breach of the general
Article 12 (4) of the Data Protection Regulation.
III. 2. 2. The right of access includes the right to issue a copy, in the case of camera recordings a
the right to publish copies of the recordings. Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The controller shall provide the copy requested for the first time free of charge to the data controller
and may charge for the issue of the copy only in further cases
award.
Also from Article 15 (4) and recital 63 of the General Data Protection Regulation
however, the right of access must not be unrestricted and must not adversely affect the rights of others; and
freedoms, as a result of which the data subject has access only to the parts of the recordings which depict him
and the other participants must be covered by the data controller.
In addition, in the exercise of the right to issue a copy, the controller shall take action
must also comply with the general rules when making or providing information
requirements of Article 12 of the Data Protection Regulation.
By e-mail dated 12 April 2019, the Applicant requested that the requested and
Recordings blocked by the Applicant will be issued to the Applicant. The Applicant to this letter a
By letter dated 23 April 2019, he replied in due time, informing him that
as no request was received from either the Applicant or the investigating authority, therefore
the Applicant canceled the recordings blocked on 7 November 2018.
In connection with this reply from the Applicant, the Authority refers back to Annex III to this Decision. 2. in point 1
according to which the reply of the Applicant sent on 23 April 2019

13

infringed Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation by failing to inform the
The applicant shall be informed of the reasons for not taking action and of the fact that he may lodge a complaint with the
Authority and may exercise its right of judicial review.
Furthermore, in its letter of 7 November 2018, the Applicant did not provide adequate information a
Applicant's exercise of his rights as a victim as he replied to him that he was being photographed
it can only be issued to the authorities at the official request of the police. November and December 2018
Szvtv. Indeed, it was only possible to send the
however, from 25 May 2018, Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the controllers are already obliged to provide the data subject with the requested recordings,
without prejudice to the rights of others. The Applicant 's data management information also states that
"At the request of the Data subject or of the Court or of another Authority, the recorded
shall be sent to the court or authority without delay. "
Consequently, the Authority finds that the Applicant did not issue any recordings either
provided adequate and transparent information, as in November 2018 neither the police nor the
authority, but also to the data subject. By the Applicant
therefore, the information provided did not comply with the general data protection regulation, but did not
was not in line with its own privacy statement. It follows that
The Authority finds that the Applicant also violated the general rule in this regard
Article 12 (1) to (2) of the Data Protection Regulation.
III. 3. Release of Restricted Recordings
By e-mail dated 12 April 2019, the Applicant requested that the requested and
Recordings blocked by the Applicant will be issued to the Applicant. However, the Applicant - as
nor did it reply to the Applicant's requests for further exercise of the rights of the data subject,
only by a letter sent on 23 April 2019 stating that, since neither the Applicant nor the
no request was received from the investigating authority, therefore the Applicant canceled the 2018.
recordings locked on November 7th.
In this respect, the Authority notes that according to the General Data Protection Regulation, the
the data subject shall have the right to issue a copy, as provided for in 2. Point 2 explains this - not that
to receive the original recordings. In this respect, the Applicant's request is not
clear, however, given that the Applicant is at the request of the Applicant
did not reply and did not provide any information on the request
measures, the Authority finds that the Applicant has breached the general data protection
Article 12 (1) to (4) of this Regulation
III. 4. Rejection of the request to contact the police
In its request, the Applicant requested the Authority to contact Budapest VII. district
Police Headquarters in connection with the record of the Applicant 's report, which
specifically included a request for proof that the police request the
Applicant requested camera footage from the Applicant, which is a motion of the police, however
did not do enough.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, and
the exercise of the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
free movement of personal data within the European Union
promoting.

14

Infotv. Section 38 (3) also lists the tasks that the Authority may perform
acting within its competence. However, these do not include a task based on which the
Authority to another authority, in this case Budapest VII. district Police Department
in order for the police to intervene in their own
instructing the police on the basis of what evidence to use to determine the
facts.
The Authority Under Section 25, another body or person may then be approached by its own proceedings
if a procedural act is required in a given case outside the competence of the Authority
or other information or documents required in the course of the proceedings.
On this basis, the Authority may make a request to another body or authority if it is its own
necessary to clarify the facts in the course of its proceedings outside its area of competence
to perform a procedural act in the area of competence of the competent authority, or with other necessary data or documents
authority.
Given, therefore, that it is not within the competence of the Authority to seek the
investigating authority to request from the Applicant a period specified by the Applicant
camera recordings, this part of the Applicant's request did not comply with the general data protection
Article 77 (1) of the Infotv. Contained in Section 60 (2)
requirements, including the Authority’s data protection authority procedure in this regard
can be initiated, therefore the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 47 (1) (a), the Authority shall
in respect of the application.
The Authority further notes that the Applicant's statement and its attached annulment
under the protocol, the recordings had already been deleted, so the investigating authority consequently
it is not even able to request the recordings requested by the Applicant.
III. 5. Public area surveillance cameras
In addition to the Applicant 's objections to the rights of the data subject, the
According to the petitioner, cameras that illegally monitor public spaces and their
objected to the lack of information.
Examination of the fulfillment of the Authority's requests for the exercise of the rights of the Applicant as a data subject
In addition, the Authority will apply the Applicant's general data management practices regarding these cameras
ex officio extended the data protection authority procedure for public space surveillance and information
with regard to.
Based on the statements of the Applicant and the documents submitted by the Applicant, the Applicant does not operate
public surveillance cameras, but in the legitimate interest of the office building,
or the protection of the Applicant's property and the person in the monitored area
to protect the physical integrity and property of persons - entrances and in front of them
He placed cameras monitoring the private area in the
parts affecting public areas, while parts not covered with ornamental stones to the Applicant's registered office
private areas. In support of these, the Applicant attached the entrances to the observer
photographs of the cameras and the snapshots taken by them, in order to prove a legitimate interest
a balance of interest test, as well as a site plan of the property and a copy of the title deed.
According to the statement, the Applicant is related to the cameras and surveillance
data management with pictograms at the entrances and for visitors at the reception
inform data subjects through an available data management information. The data management information can be found in
Applicant also sent it to the Authority, during which review the Authority

15

found that it was covered by Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information in accordance with
In this regard, however, the Authority emphasizes that in view of the submission
with the exception of the balancing test and data processing contracts
date, so it is not proven when the camera surveillance presented by the Applicant is valid
and information about it.
Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is essentially objective
accountability, which sets out its responsibilities and due diligence
Due to the requirement of the data controller, the data subject has the obligation to prove that
that the conditions for the lawfulness of data processing - from the beginning of data processing - continuously
they exist. The data controller can only rely on the foundation to ensure that it complies in all respects
the legal requirements for data processing, if it is able to comply with this certification obligation, and
Authority, the court seised or the person concerned in a detailed manner, providing reasonable assurance
can demonstrate the existence of these conditions.
In clarifying the facts, the Authority stated to the Applicant what it was like
informed the Applicant and the data subject about the surveillance of the cameras and its
details.
However, the Applicant provided information on the situation as of the date of his declaration
not how the Applicant was informed during the period under investigation, ie when the
The bar named […], operated by the applicant, was attacked by the security guards of the bar and is light
they were physically assaulted.
For this reason, the Applicant did not certify the data management information without a date
the date on which it was drawn up, and thus did not prove when it would provide adequate information, so
it has not been demonstrated that the data management or information in the period under review complied with the
requirements for lawful data management. Failing this, proof of legality shall be given at the earliest by
Authority NAIH / 2019/3910/5. at the time of receipt of the order clarifying the facts,
It will be accepted on 16 December 2019.
The date of the interest balance test sent to the Authority is 21 May 2018, while the data processor
the date of the contracts is 29 April 2019. However, in the Authority's view, none of these
it follows that the data processing as a whole and the information provided about it would have complied with the
the requirements of lawful data processing at the time of the data processing objected to by the Applicant,
or before the start of the Authority's data protection authority proceedings.
On the basis of the above, the Authority concludes that since the Applicant has not been able to prove that the
Data management related to the camera surveillance complained of by the applicant during the period under investigation
would have complied with the data protection requirements and, consequently, did not comply with it
principle of accountability, in breach of the General Data Protection Regulation
Article 5 (2).
III. 6. Sanctioning
The Authority rejected the Applicant's application for a fine, as e
the application of a legal sanction does not directly affect the right or legitimate interest of the Applicant,
such a decision of the Authority shall not create any right or obligation for it
As regards the application of a sanction falling within the scope of the public interest,
with regard to the imposition of fines, the Applicant shall not be considered a customer in accordance with Ákr. Section 10 (1)

16

or, as the Acre. Does not comply with Section 35 (1), application in this regard
this part of the application shall not be construed as an application.
However, the Authority examined of its own motion whether it was justified in respect of the applicant
imposition of a data protection fine. In this context, the Authority shall, in accordance with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
and Infotv. 75 / A. § considered all the circumstances of the case and found that
that in the case of infringements detected in the present proceedings, the warning is neither proportionate nor disproportionate
a dissuasive sanction, it is therefore necessary to impose a fine.
In setting the amount of the fine, the Authority took into account, in particular, that:
Infringements by the applicant under Article 83 (5) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall be deemed to constitute an infringement falling within the higher category of fines.
The Authority took into account as an aggravating circumstance when setting the amount of the fine:
that
-

the Applicant has not provided transparent information to the Applicant on several occasions
measures taken in response to requests from data subjects to exercise their rights. [general
Article 83 (2) (a) and (k) of the Data Protection Regulation].

-

in line with the objective responsibility of the Applicant as data controller for the data processing
the principle of accountability in the absence of its obligations arising from sound data management
in connection with the electronic surveillance complained of by the Applicant
data management. [Article 83 (2) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation]

The Authority took into account as an attenuating circumstance that
-

to convict the Applicant for violating the General Data Protection Regulation
has not taken place [Article 83 (2) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation];

-

in the period under review, the Svv. the relevant rules were still in force, but not
were in accordance with the general data protection regulation as set out by the Authority in Annex III. 1.
and therefore the Authority does not impose a breach of the right to a restriction
issued a fine [Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation].

The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance that the Act relevant rules yet
were in force but not in line with the General Data Protection Regulation, and this
the Applicant was misled by the fulfillment of the Applicant's request to restrict data processing
[Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation].
The Authority did not consider the general data protection to be relevant when setting the fine
circumstances under Article 83 (2) (b) (c), (d), (f), (g), (i) and (j) of
cannot be interpreted in relation to a specific case.
The net sales revenue of the Applicant in 2018 was more than HUF 700 million, so the imposed data protection
fine is distant from the maximum fine that may be imposed.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The present decision of the Authority is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is
Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon its communication. The Ákr. Section 112 and Section 116 (1)

17

and (3) (d) and § 114 (1)
there is a right of appeal through an administrative lawsuit.
***
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 135, the debtor is entitled to a late payment supplement equal to the statutory interest
is obliged to pay if it fails to meet its obligation to pay money on time.
The Civil Code. 6:48. § (1), in the case of a debt owed, the debtor is in arrears
valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay
shall pay default interest at the same rate as the basic interest.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 27 (1) a
legal representation is mandatory in litigation falling within the jurisdiction of the tribunal. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6)
the filing of an application does not have suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. Section 9 of the Act
Under paragraph 1 (b), the client's legal representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the Kp. It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party initiating the proceedings.
If the Applicant does not duly prove the fulfillment of the required obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the Applicant
has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), the communication becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133
implementation, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
ordering authority. The Ákr. Section 134 of the Enforcement - if law, government decree
or in the case of a municipal authority, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the
carried out by a state tax authority. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (7) in the decision of the Authority
to perform a specific act, conduct or tolerate a specific act
the Authority shall enforce the decision in respect of the standstill obligation
implements.
Budapest, March 19, 2020
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

