1/10

 File No.: EXP202105649

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (in
hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202105649

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. B.B.B. (hereinafter the claimant) on 11/02/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against D.A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter the claimed). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are the following: that the right to
deletion of the interested party by the data controller.
The claimant lawyer whose personal data, linked to her office
professional, appear published on the OKDIVORCIO.COM website; with date
09/09/2021 sent them an email to the address that appears in the privacy policy
privacy, to request that they be deleted (provide a copy of the message). He says no
has received a response.

Provide a copy of the email sent to the person responsible for the website so that
delete your data.

SECOND: On 02/02/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

On 02/02/2022, the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed
carry out these investigative actions in relation to the website
reclaimed.

With

date 05/30/2022 it is verified that the

  website
https://OKDIVORCIO.COM/ continues to display information on the claimant and is
Check that the privacy policy does not identify the person responsible for the site
Web.

Likewise, it is verified by means of the Internet tool WHOIS that in the
registration of Internet domains appears as the holder of the registry the entity "Soluciones
Corporate IP” with address in Manacor, Illes Balears.

Made, on 05/30/2022, request for information on the
ownership of the website claimed to the headquarters of "Soluciones Corporativas IP", it is received
in the Agency, dated 06/02/2022 the following information:

Identification data of the owner of the website https://OKDIVORCIO.COM/:
- Name: A.A.A.
- DNI/NIF: ***NIF.1
- Email registration: ***EMAIL.1
-
- Address: ***ADDRESS.1

Phone: ***PHONE.1

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with [Enter the text corresponding to [Text foundation I
PS].] and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that:

 "The
procedures processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, for the
regulatory provisions dictated in its development and, as soon as they are not
contradict, on a subsidiary basis, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures."

II

The denounced facts materialize in the absence of a response to the exercise
of the right of deletion exercised by the claimant by the person responsible for the
treatment, which could violate the regulations on data protection of
personal character.
 

Article 58 of the GDPR, Powers, states:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

"2. Each supervisory authority shall have all the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the
circumstances of each particular case;
(…)”

Article 17, Right to erasure ("the right to be forgotten"), of the GDPR

states that:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the
responsible for the treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns him, the
which will be obliged to delete the personal data without undue delay when
one of the following circumstances occurs:

a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which
those that were collected or otherwise treated;
b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment of
in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2),
letter a), and this is not based on another legal basis;
c) the data subject opposes the processing in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1,
and no other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party
object to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2);
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;
e) the personal data must be deleted for the fulfillment of a
legal obligation established in the Law of the Union or of the States
members that applies to the data controller;
f) the personal data have been obtained in connection with the offer of services
of the information society mentioned in article 8, paragraph 1.

2. When you have made the personal data public and are obliged, by virtue of
of the provisions of section 1, to delete said data, the person responsible for the
treatment, taking into account the available technology and the cost of its application,
take reasonable measures, including technical measures, with a view to informing
responsible who are processing the personal data of the request of the interested party
deletion of any link to such personal data, or any copy or replica of
the same.

3. Sections 1 and 2 will not apply when the treatment is necessary:

a) to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information;
b) for the fulfillment of a legal obligation that requires the treatment of
data imposed by the Law of the Union or of the Member States that are
apply to the data controller, or for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health of
in accordance with article 9, paragraph 2, letters h) and i), and paragraph 3;
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, in
to the extent that the right indicated in paragraph 1 could make it impossible
or seriously impede the achievement of the objectives of such processing, or
e) for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims”.

The GDPR allows you to exercise before the person responsible for the treatment the
rights of access, rectification, opposition, deletion (“right to be forgotten”), limitation
of treatment, portability and not being subject to individualized decisions.

II

If the person in charge does not process the request, he must inform and no later than
one month, of the reasons for not acting and the possibility of claiming before a
Control Authority, if no response has been obtained.

In the present case, the infringement of the right of deletion brings cause because
From the documentation provided, it is evident that the claimant exercised the aforementioned
right before the claimant and without any accredited response.

IV.

The infringement attributed to the defendant is typified in the
Article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, which considers that the infringement of "the rights of the
interested in accordance with articles 12 to 22" is punishable, in accordance with the
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, “with fines
administrative costs of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual business volume of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount”.

LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

 “constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 74 indicates for prescription purposes that: "It is
are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a nature will prescribe after one year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

(…)
c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless it results from
application of the provisions of article 72.1.k) of this organic law.
(…)”

In order to establish the administrative fine that should be imposed, the
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, which
point out:

V

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, as an addition to or substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or the person in charge of the
processing, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedy the breach and mitigate the potential adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particularly if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such a case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms
of certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through the infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", establishes that:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of processing
of personal data.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the
commission of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

data.

e) The existence of a merger process by absorption after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate

h) The submission by the person in charge or in charge, with character
voluntary, alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
cases in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

- In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from
the instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) and article
17 of the GDPR for which the defendant is held responsible, in an initial assessment,
considers it appropriate to establish a penalty of €2,000 (two thousand euros).

The corrective powers that the GDPR attributes to the AEPD as authority of

control are listed in article 58.2, sections a) to j).

SAW

Article 83.5 of the GDPR establishes a sanction of an administrative fine (article
58.2.i) for the conducts that are typified therein, without prejudice to the fact that, as provided in the
article 83.2. of the GDPR, administrative fines can be imposed together with
other corrective measures provided for in article 58.2 of the GDPR.

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the
adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its performance to the aforementioned regulations
in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 c) of the GDPR,
according to which each control authority may “c) order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that meet the requests for the exercise of the rights of the interested party
under this Regulation”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the

responsible so that within the period to be determined:

- Evidence that the requests for the exercise of the rights are dealt with effectively.
rights of the interested parties when they proceed to request them, in the sense expressed
in the GDPR.
 

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, according to what has been stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

1. INITIATE SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against D.A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1, for the
alleged violation of article 17 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
GDPR.

2. APPOINT R.R.R. as Instructor and S.S.S. as Secretary, indicating that any of
they may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and
24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(LRJSP).

3. INCLUDE the claim in the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes.
filed by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Inspection Services; documents, all of which make up the
proceedings.

4. THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1 and
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, the sanction that could correspond for the violation of the
Article 15 of the GDPR would be €2,000 (two thousand euros), without prejudice to what is
of the instruction.

5. NOTIFY this Agreement to D. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1, indicating
expressly their right to a hearing in the procedure and granting them a period
of TEN BUSINESS DAYS to formulate the allegations and propose the evidence that
consider appropriate. In your pleadings you must provide your NIF and the
procedure number that appears in the heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
It may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed is a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction that should be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the penalty for the
infraction would be established at 1,600 euros, resolving the procedure with the
imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction for the infringement would be established at 1,600 euros and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to that
corresponds to apply for the recognition of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the term
granted to formulate allegations at the opening of the procedure. The pay
voluntary payment of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

time before resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the sanction would be established at 1,200 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (1,600 or 1,200 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
the date of the start agreement or, where appropriate, the start agreement project.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

>>

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

SECOND: On September 21, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to the
payment of the penalty in the amount of 1200 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202105649, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

