1/13

936-150719
Procedure No.: PS/00301/2019

RESOLUTION R/00551/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00301/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Officer to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 23, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00301/2019

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 12, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
later, the claimed one). The reasons on which the claim is based are that in April or
May 2018, his daughter, authorized by him, provided a Vodafone worker with data
of the claimant in order for them to make an offer.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

Days later, he received a call from the respondent at his home, offering his
services. The claimant states that he did NOT accept the offer, however, the claimed
proceeded to make the change of his line.
On May 16, 2018, he received a payment request from I.S.G.F. Reports
Comerciales S.L., for a debt with the claimed company, a company from which the claimant
declares not to be a client.
After receiving two other payment requests, on August 21, 2018, he requested
opposition to the processing of your data to that claimed.
The claimant provides a copy of the payment requirements received in May and July
2018, of the defendant and of ISGF Informes Comerciales S.L. and notifications of
inclusion of your data in the Asnef and Badexcug files dated August 24 and 28
respectively.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

On November 16, 2018, the claim was transferred to the respondent
within the framework of the actions with reference E/8971/2018.
On February 10, 2019, these actions began when no
response to transfer.
On February 15, 2019, a request for information was sent to the
reported company.
On February 25, 2019, the respondent has sent this Agency the following
information in relation to the facts denounced:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

1. They have not received the transfer of the complaint, so they do not have the

complete documentation to respond to the request.

On March 8, 2019, a new request for information was sent to the
claimed and a copy of the complaint is attached.
On March 12 and March 22, 2019, the respondent sends the Agency the
Next information:

1. They provide a copy of the document sent to the claimant in response to their
claim, dated March 11, 2019, informing you that they have
proceeded to qualify the registration of his line as "unrecognized registration", giving
lower services and existing debt.

2. According to the information contained in their systems, the registration of the line in the name
of the denounced was made through telemarketing dated January 22, 2018
and was withdrawn on January 29, 2018. They provide a printed copy of the application
registration made in the online store of the claimed party as well as the request for
cancellation.

3. According to the information in your files, during the time of

contracting (7 days), two invoices are generated, with quota and without consumption.

4. The debt associated with the claimant presented an amount of €123.90
corresponding to the invoice issued on February 1, 2018 and after being
After analyzing the case, it is specified that it is a case of fraud.

5. The claimant's data was included in solvency files dated
August 26, 2018 and they were discharged on December 14, 2018.
The date of registration coincides with the notifications of inclusion in said files
provided by the claimant.

THIRD: According to the documentation in the file, it is accredited
that the claimed party processed the personal data of the claimant without his/her consent.
consent. The personal data of the claimant were registered in the
files of the claimed and were treated for the issuance of invoices for services
associated with the complainant and to be included in the solvency file
equity and credit.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

         Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

                 “2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrections listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

(...)

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the case
particular

(…)”

III

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the

interested party (<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>);”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

          Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant without their consent. The personal data of
complainant were incorporated into the company's information systems, without
who has accredited that he had his consent for the collection and
further processing of your personal data.

  

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National High Court, in cases
like the one presented here, has considered that when the owner of the data denies
contracting corresponds the burden of proof to who affirms its existence
the person responsible for the processing of third-party data must collect and keep the
documentation necessary to prove the consent of the holder. We quote, for
all, the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

The personal data of the claimant were registered in the files of the
claimed and were processed for the issuance of invoices for services associated with the
denouncing person and to be included in the asset and credit solvency file.
Consequently, it has carried out a processing of personal data without
accredited that it has the consent of the same for its treatment, nor that
have the legal authorization to do so.

However, and this is essential, the defendant does not prove the legitimacy to
the processing of the claimant's data, and as she herself acknowledges, it is
a case of fraud.

In short, the respondent has not provided a document or evidence
one that shows that the entity, in such a situation, would have deployed the
minimum diligence required to verify that your interlocutor was indeed the one
claimed to hold

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

v

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

8/13

in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to be imposed
in the present case Avon as responsible for an infringement typified in article 83.5.a)
of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, the following factors are considered concurrent:

-

-

The merely local scope of the data processing carried out by the claimed party.

The purpose of the treatment was reasonable in the hypothesis that the claimed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

was legitimized for the treatment carried out.

-

Only one person has been affected by the offending conduct.

There is no evidence that the defendant had acted maliciously or with a

-
relevant negligence.

There is an obvious link between the processing of personal data and

-
the activity carried out by the claimant.

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and

set it at the amount of €60,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.,
with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violation of article 6.1. GDPR
typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

1. APPOINT D.R.R.R. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with
what is established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

two.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
information requirements that the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data sent to the entity claimed in the preliminary investigation phase and its
respective acknowledgments of receipt.

3. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

Public, the sanction that could correspond would be 60,000 euros (sixty
thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

4. NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate.
In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 48,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 48,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 36,000 euros.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts

indicated above, 48,000 euros or 36,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On October 22, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 36,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00301/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

