1/13

Litigation Chamber
 
Decision on the merits 28/2020 of 29 May 2020

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-04191
 
Subject: Complaint for the sending of advertising by the asbl Y
 
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Frank De Smet and Yves Poullet, members;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the
data protection, hereinafter the "GDPR");
 
Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the
ACL;
 
Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on
December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Considering the documents in the file;

 

 
 

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 2/13

made the following decision regarding:
 
-
-

X, "the complainant"; and
Y, "the defendant".

 
 

1. Facts and procedure

 

1. On August 8, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority against
the defendant.
 
2. The subject matter of the complaint relates to the complainant's repeated receipt by mail of material
promotion by the defendant, despite the fact that the plaintiff asked (several
occasions) to the defendant to no longer send him this type of promotional material and to delete his
personal data.

 

3. On August 27, 2019, the complaint was declared admissible on the basis of Article 58 of the LCA, the complainant
is informed in accordance with article 61 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the Chamber
Litigation under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

4. On September 12, 2019, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and
Article 98 of the LCA, that the complaint can be dealt with on the merits.

 

5. By registered letter of September 12, 2019, the parties are informed that the complaint
may be dealt with on the merits and, under Article 99 of the LCA, they are also informed of the
deadlines for submitting their conclusions.

 

6. On October 6, 2019, the Litigation Chamber received an email from the complainant containing photos
new advertisements that the defendant sent him by mail.

 

7. On October 10, 2019, the Litigation Chamber received the defendant's submissions.

 

8. By e-mail of December 7, 2019, the complainant informed the Data Protection Authority of the fact
that she again received promotional material from the defendant and attached evidence of it.
 

 

2

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 3/13

9. By e-mail of April 27, 2020, the Litigation Chamber informed the defendant of the intention to impose
an administrative fine as well as the amount of the fine and the defendant's possibility of
report its conclusions on the matter.
 
10. The Litigation Division did not, however, receive any reaction from the defendant concerning this
intention to impose an administrative fine.
 
 

2. Legal basis

 

Article 6.1 GDPR
 
"1. The processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is
filled:
a) the data subject has consented to the processing of his or her personal data for one or
several specific purposes;
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or
the execution of pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request;
c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller
treatment is submitted;
d) processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of a
other natural person;
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or relating to the exercise of
the public authority vested in the controller;
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller
processing or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms prevail
of the data subject who require protection of personal data, in particular
when the data subject is a child.
Point (f) of the first paragraph does not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in
the execution of their missions.
 
Article 17.1.c) GDPR
 
"1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure, within the
as soon as possible, of personal data concerning him and the controller has
the obligation to erase this personal data as soon as possible, when one of the
following grounds apply: (…)

 

3

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 4/13

c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there is no
no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing
pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 2;"
 
Article 17.1.d) GDPR
 
"1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure, within the
as soon as possible, of personal data concerning him and the controller has
the obligation to erase this personal data as soon as possible, when one of the
following grounds apply: (…)
d) the personal data has been unlawfully processed;"
 
Article 21.2 GDPR
 
"2. When personal data is processed for prospecting purposes, the person
data subject has the right to object at any time to the processing of personal data
concerning for such prospecting purposes, including profiling insofar as it relates to a
such prospecting.
 
Article 21.3 GDPR
 
"3. When the data subject objects to processing for prospecting purposes, the data to be
personal character are no longer processed for these purposes."
 
Article 21.4 GDPR
 
"4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the right referred to
in paragraphs 1 and 2 is explicitly brought to the attention of the data subject and is presented
clearly and separately from any other information."
 
 

3. Motivation

 

3.1.

Regarding the violation of Articles 17.1.c), 21.2 and 21.3 of the GDPR

 
11. It appears from the documents in the file that with regard to the repeated receipt of promotional material from
the part of the defendant, the plaintiff asked him by e-mail of July 5, 2019 not to send her any more
this kind of promotional material and to erase his personal data:

 

4

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 5/13

"Sir,
After having already asked you for it previously, request unfortunately remained without
following, I would again like to urge you to stop using my email address.
inappropriate manner for sending gadgets for the purpose of raising funds for your
organization. Please delete my address immediately. I have indeed never
given my consent under the GDPR to use my address. (…)" [NdT: all
the passages from the documents in the file are free translations made by the
Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority, in the absence of an official translation]

 
12. Plaintiff directs this motion to Defendant regarding receipt of gadgets by mail
- namely a bimonthly magazine and a ballpoint pen bearing the defendant's logo.
 
13. The Respondent does not, however, reserve any favorable response to this request and continues to send
promotional material similar to the complainant.
 
14. Even after notification of the complaint by the Data Protection Authority to the defendant
(by letter of September 12, 2019), the latter continues to process data for the purposes of
direct marketing.
 
15. By email of October 6, 2019, the complainant informed the Data Protection Authority
the receipt of new promotional material from the defendant - namely a magazine and
a toiletry bag - and attached proof of it.
 
16. By e-mail of October 10, 2019, the Respondent sends its conclusions to the Litigation Chamber.
In response to the complaint, the defendant claims that the data of the complainant was recorded
in her database since the complainant made a donation in 2012 to the benefit of the
respondent. The latter asserts that they "disregarded [the complainant's] request to terminate
correspondence from [the defendant]" and that in the meantime they ensured that the plaintiff did not receive
no more mail from their departments.
 
17. Furthermore, the Respondent asserts in its defense the following:
 

“We keep donor data for another 10 years after their last donation, like
this is specified in our "privacy" clause and communicated to all our donors when
the introduction of the new GDPR.
Since [the defendant] is always looking for donors to support his projects [...],
we regularly contact our former donors in writing in the hope that they wish
to reiterate their past financial support.

 

5

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 6/13

For these fundraising activities, we rely on "legitimate interest" as
legal basis for processing personal data, not consent
explicit from the donor. [The defendant] can only achieve its objectives by means of
the necessary means. Therefore, it is important for us to (be able to) address ourselves to a
target audience as wide as possible”.

 
18. By e-mail of December 7, 2019, the complainant informed the Data Protection Authority of the fact
that she again received promotional material from the defendant and attached evidence of it.
This is a letter dated November 26, 2019 asking the complainant to make a "Christmas gift".
 
19. The Litigation Chamber considers that the sending of this type of advertising must be considered as
"prospecting" within the meaning of Article 21 of the GDPR. It uses in this context the definition such as
included in Recommendation No. 1/2020 of the Data Protection Authority relating to
processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes, worded as follows:
 

“Any communication in any form, whether solicited or unsolicited, from
of an organization or a person and aimed at the promotion or sale of services,
products (paid or not), as well as brands or ideas, addressed by an organization
or a person acting in a commercial or non-commercial context, which is addressed
directly to one or more natural persons in a private or professional context and
involving the processing of personal data.”1

 
This definition develops in particular the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the
Advice on respect for privacy and the protection of personal data in
electronic communications and repealing Directive 2002/58/EC2.
 
20. This is an unsolicited communication sent by mail to the person
concerned and aimed at the promotion of the services of the defendant, on the one hand, and the raising of funds by the
defendant, on the other hand. The communication requires the processing of personal data,
namely the name and address of the person concerned.
 
21. In accordance with recital 70 of the GDPR, in the event of the processing of personal data
personal information for prospecting purposes, the data subject has the right, at any time and free of charge, to
to object to this processing, and whether or not it is an initial processing or a subsequent processing.
                                                
1 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 8.
2 COM(2017) 10. Article 4 of the proposal defines: " "direct marketing communications": any form
advertising, both written and oral, sent to one or more end users, identified or identifiable, of services of
electronic communications, including by means of automated communication and calling systems, with or without
human intervention, by e-mail, SMS, etc."

 

6

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 7/13

 
22. Article 21.3 of the GDPR provides in this respect that "Where the data subject objects to the
processing for prospecting purposes, personal data is no longer processed for these
purposes”.
 
23. In the context of direct marketing, such opposition must therefore give rise immediately
and without additional examination to the pure and simple cessation of all data processing of the person
concerned for these direct marketing purposes3.
 
24. In the present case, however, the Respondent does not respond to the opposition formulated by the
data subject under Article 21.2 of the GDPR and continues to process data for the purposes
of direct marketing, and this at least five months after the complainant's last opposition and three
months after notification of the complaint to the defendant by the Data Protection Authority.
 
25. The defendant therefore violates Articles 21.2 and 21.3 of the GDPR.
 
26. The data subject not only objects to the processing of his data to
personal character for direct marketing purposes but also asks the defendant in his
email of July 5, 2019 to delete his data. The data subject thus invokes his right in
pursuant to Article 17 of the GDPR.
 
27. In accordance with Article 17.1.c) of the GDPR, the data subject has the right to
of the controller of the right "to obtain the erasure, as soon as possible, of data
personal character concerning him" when he "objects to the processing under Article 21,
paragraph 2".
 
28. The Respondent does not, however, reserve any favorable response to this request for erasure of the
data of the complainant and thus also violates Article 17.1.c) of the GDPR.
 

3.2.

Regarding the violation of Articles 6.1 and 21.4 of the GDPR

 
29. In its letter of defense dated October 10, 2019, the defendant states that for its direct marketing
with regard to former donors with a view to raising funds, he invokes the "legitimate interest" (article 6.1.f)
of the GDPR) as the legal basis for the processing of personal data and not the
explicit consent of the data subjects (article 6.1.a) of the GDPR), in order to "(power)
address the widest possible target audience.

                                                
3 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 53.

 

7

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 8/13

 
30. Although the GDPR does not completely exclude the use of legitimate interest as a basis
of lawfulness for the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes, this does not
does not mean that each processing for prospecting purposes can be considered as
legitimate4.
 
31. In accordance with Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR and the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union
European Union (hereinafter "the Court"), three cumulative conditions must in fact be met for a
responsible for the processing can validly invoke this basis of lawfulness, "namely,
first, the pursuit of a legitimate interest by the controller or by the third party(ies)
to whom the data is communicated, secondly, the necessity of the processing of the data to
personal character for the achievement of the legitimate interest pursued and, thirdly, the condition
that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person concerned by data protection
do not prevail" (judgment "Rigas"5).
 
32. In other words, in order to be able to invoke the basis of lawfulness of "legitimate interest"
in accordance with Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR, the controller must demonstrate that:

1)

2)
3)

the interests it pursues with the processing can be recognized as legitimate
(the "finality test");
the intended processing is necessary to achieve those interests (the “necessity test”); and
the weighing of these interests against the interests, freedoms and fundamental rights of
data subjects weighs in favor of the controller (the "weighting test").

33. With regard to the first condition (the so-called "purpose test"), the GDPR recognizes
that the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes may in itself be
considered to be made for a legitimate interest6.
 
34. In this case, these are direct marketing messages addressed to former donors with a view to
the promotion of the services of the defendant and the raising of funds by the latter from these
former donors. According to recital 47 of the GDPR, the interest that the defendant was pursuing
as controller can in itself be considered legitimate. The first one
condition set out in Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR is therefore fulfilled.
 

                                                
4 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 49.
5 CJEU, 4, C-13/16, Valsts policijas Rīgas reģiona pārvaldes Kārtības policijas pārvalde v Rīgas pašvaldības SIA „Rīgas
satiksme”, recital 28. See also CJEU, 11 December 2019, C-708/18, TK c/ Asociaţia de Proprietari bloc M5A-ScaraA,
recital 40.
6 Recital 47, in fine, of the GDPR.

 

8

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 9/13

35. In order to fulfill the second condition, it must be demonstrated that the processing is necessary for the
achievement of the aims pursued. This means more precisely that one must ask oneself whether the same
result cannot be achieved by other means, without processing personal data
personnel or without unnecessary substantial processing for data subjects7.
 
36. In this case, it can be considered that the processing of personal data was
necessary for the achievement of the purpose defined by the controller, namely the sending of
direct mail marketing messages to past donors to raise funds.
In order to address this direct marketing to the persons concerned, their name and address are processed.
The purpose thus defined by the controller could not actually be achieved
without the aforementioned processing of personal data.
 
37. The fact that the interest pursued by the controller is legitimate and that the processing of
personal data is necessary to achieve this purpose, however, is not sufficient to
that the data controller can validly invoke Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR.
 
38. In order to check whether the third condition of Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR - the so-called "test of
balancing" between the interests of the controller on the one hand and the freedoms and rights
fundamentals of the data subject on the other hand - can be fulfilled, in accordance with the
recital 47 of the GDPR, the reasonable expectations of the person must first be taken into account
concerned. In particular, it must be assessed whether "the data subject can reasonably
expect, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, that
they are processed for a given purpose”8.
 
39. This aspect is also underlined by the Court in its judgment "TK v. Asociaţia de Proprietari bloc
M5A-ScaraA" of December 11, 20199, which states the following:
 

"Also relevant for the purposes of this balancing are the reasonable expectations of the
data subject that his or her personal data will not be processed
where, in the circumstances of the case, that person cannot reasonably
expect further processing of these."

 

                                                
7 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 49.
8 Recital 47 GDPR.
9 CJEU, 11 December 2019, C-708/18, TK v Asociaţia de Proprietari block M5A-ScaraA, recital 58.

 

9

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 10/13

40. In this case, the question arises whether the Complainant could reasonably expect
that his personal data be used for direct marketing purposes with a view to
a fundraiser just over seven years after the data was collected.
 
41. In addition to the reasonable expectations of the data subject, a second element to be
also consider a controller intending to use the legitimate interest
as the basis of lawfulness is its obligation to provide additional safeguards in favor of
the person concerned. This aspect is highlighted by Group 29 in its opinion 06/201410:
 
“The test involves a comprehensive consideration of several factors, so as to ensure that the interests and
the fundamental rights of data subjects are duly taken into account. Factors to
to be taken into account in this balancing are in particular:
[…]
- the additional safeguards that could limit any unjustified impact on the person
concerned, such as data minimization, technologies enhancing the protection of the
private life ; greater transparency, a general and unconditional right to object to the
data processing and portability.”

42. Providing for a right to object to processing is an essential element in this context.
In the absence of a real and effective right of opposition, we cannot find a balance between
the legitimate interests pursued by the controller and the fundamental rights and freedoms
of the person concerned.
 
43. The unconditional nature of this right of opposition is specific to processing for the purposes of
direct marketing and is guaranteed by Article 21.3 of the GDPR (see above). As specified above,
this opposition in the context of direct marketing must give rise immediately and without examination
additional to the pure and simple cessation of all data processing of the data subject for
direct marketing purposes11.
 
44. In accordance with recital 70 of the GDPR in fine, and Article 21.4 of the GDPR, the controller
processing must also facilitate this right to object in the context of direct marketing:
 

“When personal data is processed for prospecting purposes, the
data subject should have the right, at any time and free of charge, to object to this
processing, including profiling insofar as it relates to such prospecting, whether

                                                
10 Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of "legitimate interest pursued by the data controller", adopted on 9 April 2014
by Group 29, p. 3.
11 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 53.

 

10

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 11/13

whether it is initial or subsequent treatment. This right should be explicitly extended to
the attention of the data subject and presented clearly and separately from any other
information.”12
 
“At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the right
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 is explicitly brought to the attention of the data subject and
is presented clearly and separately from any other information.”13

 
45. The controller must therefore clearly formulate this right to object, in terms
simple and unambiguous, in all direct marketing messages, from the first
message14. It is not enough to include the possibility of exercising this right in the declaration of
confidentiality; this possibility must be offered explicitly to the data subject15. This
obligation is not new and already existed, before the entry into force of the GDPR, under
article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC16.
 
46. In the present case, the defendant does not fulfill this obligation imposed by Article 21.4 of the GDPR
and clarified by recital 70 of the GDPR. In its defence, the defendant refers to its declaration of
confidentiality but does not demonstrate that it has effectively facilitated the exercise of the right of opposition,
as required by Article 21.4 of the GDPR. Indeed, the marketing messages transmitted as
evidence by the complainant does not mention the possibility of exercising the right of opposition.
 
47. The defendant has therefore not effectively guaranteed the general and unconditional right of opposition
applicable to the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes and has not
fulfilled its obligation to provide effective additional safeguards from the outset
which can limit possible unintended consequences for the data subject.
 
48. Since this element is essential in order to be able, as controller, to
validly invoke Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR (legitimate interest) as the basis of lawfulness for the
processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes, it must be concluded in this

                                                
12 Recital 70 GDPR.
13 Article 21.4 of the GDPR.
14 ZANFIR-FORTUNA, G., “Article 21. Right to object” in KUNER, C., BYGRAVE, L.A. and DOCKSEY, C. (eds.),The EU General Data
Protection Regulation: A Commentary, Oxford University Press, 2020, (508)516-517: “As explained by recitals 65 and 69 GDPR,
the right to erasure applies where the retention of the personal data infringes the GDPR or Union or Member State law to which
the controller is subject, while, on the contrary, the right to object applies when personal data is processed lawfully, but the
data subject wants the processing to stop on the basis of his or her particular situation.”
15 Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority No. 01/2020 of January 17, 2020 relating to data processing
of a personal nature for direct marketing purposes, e.g. 53.
16 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 281 of 23.11.1995,
p. 31).

 

11

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 12/13

case that the third condition ("weighting test") has not been fulfilled and the defendant does not
could not validly continue the processing under Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR.
 
49. The defendant therefore violates Articles 6.1 and 21.4 of the GDPR.
 
50. Violations of the above provisions are subject to administrative fines
mentioned in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.
 
51. Taking into account the criteria set out in Article 83.2 of the GDPR as well as the case law of the Court
contracts17, the Litigation Chamber justifies the imposition of an administrative sanction in this case
based on the following circumstances:
 
-

the nature, gravity and duration of the breach (Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR), namely the character
continuous violation of Articles 6.1, 17.1.c) and d), 21.2, 21.3 and 21.4 of the GDPR for at least
five months after the last opposition and request to erase the data from the
complainant and three months after notification of the complaint to the defendant by the Protection Authority
Datas ;
 
the fact that this is the first breach observed by the controller
concerned (article 83.2.d) of the GDPR);
 
the degree of cooperation established with the supervisory authority with a view to remedying the breach and
mitigate any negative effects (article 83.2.f) of the GDPR): contrary to what the
defendant asserts in his defense dated October 10, 2019, despite opposition and
request for erasure of the complainant's data and notification of the complaint by the Authority
data protection, the latter has not taken the necessary measures to put
immediately put an end to the violations described above; he continued the data processing
pursuant to GDPR Article 6.1.f) (legitimate interest) for direct marketing purposes; and

 

the fact that the defendant is a non-profit association with a limited turnover
(article 83.2.k) of the GDPR).

-

-

-

 
52. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes that in this case, the other criteria of Article 83.2 of the GDPR do not
are not such as to give rise to an administrative fine other than that fixed by the Chamber
Litigation in the context of this decision.
 

                                                
17 Brussels Court of Appeal (Cour des Marchés section), judgment 2020/1471 of 19 February 2020.

 

12

Decision on the merits 28/2020 - 13/13

53. The Litigation Chamber considers that this fine is proportional given the annual accounts
published by the defendant in the Belgian Official Gazette for the 2018 financial year (positive result between 500,000 and
€600,000).
 
54. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber
Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Authority for the protection of
data. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the parties be
directly communicated.
 
 
FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:
 
-

pursuant to Article 58.2, c) and g) of the GDPR and Article 95, § 1, 6° of the LCA, to order
the defendant to grant a favorable response to the request for erasure of the data from the
complainant in accordance with Article 17.1.c) of the GDPR, within one month of receipt of
this decision and to inform the plaintiff as well as the Litigation Chamber in this
same deadline; and
 
pursuant to Article 83 of the GDPR and Articles 100, § 1, 13° and 101 of the LCA, to impose
an administrative fine of 1000 euros to the defendant for violation of articles 6.1, 17.1.c) and
d), 21.2, 21.3 and 21.4 GDPR.

-

 
Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period
thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of
given as defendant.
 
 
 
 
 
(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

 

13

