12.05.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In April 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator LORIS FUEL SHOP SRL and found a violation of the provisions of art. 29 and art. 32 para. (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation (RGPD).
The operator LORIS FUEL SHOP SRL was fined 4,941.3 lei, the equivalent of 1,000 EURO.
The investigation was started as a result of a complaint by which the petitioner complained about the publication on Facebook of some images in which he was caught and which came from the monitor belonging to a video surveillance system installed in a gas station in Harghita county.
During the investigation, it was found that the operator LORIS FUEL SHOP SRL, as an authorized person, did not adopt sufficient appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure the confidentiality of the personal data processed regarding the images recorded through the television system installed in the stations used, in especially in the aspect of training the people who process data under his authority (employees). This led to the visualization and filming by unauthorized third parties of video camera images from the workplace in Harghita county, later being revealed on a social network, thus violating the provisions of art. 29 and 32 par. (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
At the same time, during the investigation of the operator LORIS FUEL SHOP SRL, the corrective measure was also applied to ensure compliance with the RGPD of personal data processing operations, by implementing appropriate technical and organizational measures, especially in the aspect of training the persons who process data under the authority (employees or collaborators), by organizing regular training sessions with them, in relation to their obligations regarding the processing of personal data through the video system installed in the stations, the verification of access to the recordings of the images stored on the DVR, as well as the rapid detection, management and reporting of personal data security breaches.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P