  

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin, March 30, 2023

 

 

Data protection meets media competence: First specialist day for Berliners

media educators

Under the title "Data protection meets media competence", media educators met today in

Berlin to a specialist day organized by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

and the youth network Berlin. The participants shared how

Children and young people for the protection of their personal data when using digital

Media can be sensitized.

 

Meike Kamp, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: “Data protection and

Media literacy is two sides of the same coin that cannot be separated. Because who

uses digital media usually also reveals personal data. an early one

Teaching data protection and media literacy is therefore essential to educate children and

To sensitize young people to the responsible handling of their data.”

 

The symposium imparted legal principles and technical knowledge in relation to risks in the

processing of personal data. In addition, media educators from Berlin reported

Districts about their work with children and young people on digital media, the protection of their

Internet privacy and security. The practical event was attended by more than 50

media education specialists from Berlin schools, day-care centers and independent providers.

 

Today's event is part of the existing media education work of the Berliners

Commissioner for data protection and freedom of information. To do this, she provides age-appropriate

materials and informs children, parents and teachers about the topic of data protection. For

She also offers free workshops to primary schools in Berlin.

 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

 
 
Telephone: 030 13889-900
Fax: 030 215 50 50

 

 

 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Website: www.datenschutz-berlin.de

 

Alt-Moabit 59-61, 10555 Berlin
Entrance: Alt-Moabit 60
 
 
 

Responsible: Simon Rebiger
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 

