data protection meets
      media literacy

program

10:00 a.m. Greeting

Meike Kamp, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

10:10 a.m. Data protection and media competence

dr Claudia Federrath, BlnBDI, Head of Department II (Legal)

In order to be able to sensitize children and young people,
Media educators first with the most important regulations themselves
be familiar with data protection. The input gives an overview of the
Basic concepts of data protection. It shows what is behind
the right to informational self-determination and which ones
legal regulations for handling personal data
must be observed by children and young people.

11:00 a.m. break

11:15 a.m. Risks in data processing – the data protection cube

Hinnerk van Bruinehsen, BlnBDI, Advisor Department IV (IT)
Christian Kühne, BlnBDI, Advisor Department IV (IT)

Communicating data protection requires various skills.
Among other things, this includes actors, stakeholder interests and deployed
To be able to recognize and classify technology in principle. Also heard
In addition, not only the merits of a technique, but also the risks of
to recognize the data processing behind it. have for the latter
Data protectionists use the data protection cube as a simple tool
developed. This is illustrated using examples from the field of
featured online social media. Individual risks are given as examples
associated with practical protective measures.

page 1

12:00 p.m. The media education work of the BlnBDI

Leonard Bergmann, media educator on the BlnBDI staff

Practical and methodical suggestions, experiences in the field
Data protection in the work with elementary school children, presentation of the
teaching material and the website data-kids.de

12:30 p.m. Lunch break including catering

1:15 pm Make data protection great again

Media Competence Center Marzahn-Hellersdorf

Even at a young age, digital media have an outstanding and
influential meaning. Responsibility and dealing with your own
Data, as well as that of others, is very demanding. We show in this
Workshop different methods how to work with children and young people
interactively and playfully the topics "data", "data protection", as well as
"strong passwords" can edit.

2:00 p.m. Your data? Safe!

Media Competence Center Steglitz-Zehlendorf

How can children and young people protect their own
Data are sensitized, although they are a lot on social networks
and messengers are on the go? With a kind of "accepting"
Media education assumes that children and
Young people use these data-legally unsafe media, but also
there have the opportunity to protect their personal data.

2:45 p.m. break

3:00 p.m. Crypto Kids

Media Competence Center Treptow-Köpenick

Presentation of the adventure game KryptoKids on the subject of data protection
for children from 8 to 12 years. With the help of interactive, digital
and analogue game elements, children become part of an exciting
detective story and solve playful, cooperative questions
Internet privacy and security.

3:30 p.m. Exchange and feedback in the plenum
Moderator: Leonard Bergmann (BlnBDI),
Bernd Gabler (jugendnetz.berlin)

 

Page 2

