GZ: 2020-0.219.620 from April 24, 2020 (case number: DSB-D123.539)

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.]

NOTICE

S P R U C H

Data Protection Authority decides on Paul A***'s privacy complaint
(complainant) of September 29, 2018 against N*** GmbH (respondent)
due to violation of the right to information as follows:

-  The complaint is dismissed as unsubstantiated.

Legal basis: Art. 4 Z 8 to Z 10, Art. 15, Art. 51 Para. 1, Art. 57 Para. 1 lit. f, Art. 58 Para. 2
lit. c and Art. 77 Para. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, im
hereinafter: GDPR), OJ No. L 119 of 04/05/2016 p. 1; Sections 18 (1) and 24 (1) and
Paragraph 5 of the Data Protection Act (DSG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999 as amended.

 

REASON

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

1. In his submission of September 29, 2018, the complainant brought to the
Data Protection Authority
essentially, the Respondent had to be
Request for information from July 29, 2018 [Editor's note: in the original as a result of a
obvious editorial oversight "2019"] with letters dated August 26, 2018 and
10 September 2018 answered poorly. There are 5 files (collections at
glasses orders)
(Data on the visual impairment of the
Complainant) that the Respondent processes via the Complainant,
not been informed.

as well as health data

2. The Respondent replied with a statement dated October 29, 2018
in summary, she misinterpreted the complainant's request and only
related to data transfers to an insurance carrier. The complete information
has now been made up for with a letter dated October 25, 2018 and is the
Opinion to the data protection authority.

3. The Complainant also replicated the Respondent's statement
Letter dated November 29, 2018, information from the Respondent dated October 25
2018 is still deficient and incomplete. The complainant has
Letter dated November 6, 2018 sent to the Respondent with additional questions,
which were answered by letter dated November 20, 2018. After inspection
of the documents, the complainant found that the respondent
carry out data processing on his person, which was initially kept secret
be. The complainant did not consent to this either.

4. The DPA informed the complainant by letter dated February 8, 2019
with that - unless he justifies why the alleged violation of rights as before

exist - the procedure according to § 24 para. 6 DSG will be discontinued because of his
Statement shows that the information provided by the Respondent by the
answer to his supplementary questions has now been completely made up for.

5. The complainant informed by letter dated February 17, 2019 that he had the
Respondent additionally requested by e-mail of December 30, 2018, him regarding
of data processing for marketing purposes, which data about his person
passed on to the marketing company B*** GmbH. his consent to this
was not given and the complainant also denied an alleged interest of the
Respondent to this disclosure. The request was from the Respondent,
despite urgency, remained unanswered.

B. Subject of Complaint

Based on the complainant's submissions initiating the proceedings, it follows that
The subject of the complaint is whether the respondent is the complainant
violated his right to information by providing incomplete information.

On the other hand, the questions are whether the complainant consented to data processing
is given and whether there is legal permission for the transfer of the data of the
Complainant by the Respondent to the marketing company B***
GmbH is not and is not the subject of this complaints procedure
asserted in a separate complaint.

C. Findings of Facts

On July 29, 2018, the complainant requested information from the respondent
his personal data.

The Respondent replied to the Appellant by letter dated 26 August
2018 as follows:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains a list of data categories that are used for the purpose of providing an agreed
insurance benefits were passed on.]

The Respondent also replied to the Complainant again by letter
dated September 10, 2018 as follows:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains a communication from the Respondent without a data protection context
With the exception of an indication that information has already been provided.]

The complainant then lodged a complaint with the data protection authority on September 29, 2018
Complaint about insufficient information.

The Respondent granted the Complainant in the course of the proceedings before the
Data protection authority in a letter dated October 25, 2018 the following information:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains information in accordance with Art. 15 GDPR, in which in particular the personal

Data of the complainant, in the data categories "customer data", "order data" and
"Health data" are subdivided, reproduced in detail.]

The complainant continued to consider the information provided by the respondent to be inadequate
and submitted the following to the Respondent in an email dated November 6, 2018
Supplementary questions:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains a request from the complainant regarding the information provided on October 25, 2018,
in particular why their data is processed for marketing purposes without consent
which specific processors process his data and a request for
more detailed justification of the storage period.]

The Respondent replied to the Complainant's supplementary questions
Letter dated November 20, 2018 as follows:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains the Respondent's explanations regarding the Complainant's request dated
November 6, 2018, in particular those claimed by the Respondent
named processor. The following is just that passage of text
reproduced, which refers to B*** GmbH.]

"[...]

With the implementation of marketing campaigns and advertising measures, we have within the framework
an order processing according to Art. 28 DS-GVO the company
 
B*** Ltd
T*** street 7
1**0 Vienna
 
instructed. In this regard, those with previous post are already duly
disclosed customer data and order data processed. The health data will
not passed on. B*** GmbH processes the data provided strictly
bound by instructions and exclusively for the purposes of N*** GmbH.
 
[...]"
 

The complainant turned
Respondent. This letter is not available to the data protection authority.

then with further questions to the

The Respondent replied to the Complainant by letter dated
December 17, 2018 as follows:

[Editor's note: The original as a graphic file (facsimile of a printout)
The letter reproduced cannot be pseudonymised with reasonable effort; it
contains further explanations by the Respondent to the information already provided and the
further inquiry by the complainant.]

The complainant then contacted again by email dated December 30, 2018
the Respondent and requested additional information about which of his data

were passed on to the processor B*** GmbH and when this was passed on
took place.

The Respondent did not reply to this letter.

Evidence: The findings are based on the
matching submissions and the communications submitted by the parties.

insofar

D. In legal terms it follows that:

According to Art. 15 Para. 1 GDPR, the person concerned has the right to be informed by the person responsible
to request confirmation as to whether personal data concerning you
are processed; if this is the case, she has a right to information about this
personal data and the information pursuant to Article 15 (1) lit. a to lit. h
GDPR.

As a result, it must therefore be examined whether the Respondent gave the Complainant a
provided incomplete information:

As stated, the complainant was in any case informed by letter dated October 25, 2018
informed that personal data about him will be processed, thus the requirement
the basic confirmation as to whether personal data is being processed,
according to Art. 15 Para. 1 1st sentence GDPR is fulfilled.

is

to state that these – like

With regard to the further information pursuant to Article 15 Paragraph 1 lit. a and lit. b as well as lit. d bis
lit. g GDPR
determined – by the
Respondent have been granted and the data protection authority here no violation in
right to information. Information in accordance with Article 15 (1) (h) GDPR
are not relevant in the present case and was therefore a defective
Information was not claimed by the complainant either.

It follows from the complainant's submissions that only the question remains open
is whether it is also necessary to provide information about which data and when from the respondent to the
Contract processor "B*** GmbH" were passed on.

To clarify this question, the following provisions of the GDPR are relevant:

Art. 15 para. 1 lit c GDPR states that the data subject has a right to information
has about the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the
personal data have been disclosed or will be disclosed,
especially for recipients in third countries or international organizations.

Art. 4 Z 9 1st sentence GDPR defines “recipient” as a natural or legal person,
Authority, institution or other body to which personal data is disclosed,
regardless of whether it is a third party or not.

Art. 4 Z 10 GDPR defines "third party" as a natural or legal person, authority,
Institution or other body, other than the data subject, the person responsible, the
processors and the persons who work under the direct responsibility of the
The person responsible or the processor is authorized to process the personal data
process.

Art. 4 Z 8 GDPR defines "processor" as a natural or legal person,
Authority, institution or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the
processed by responsible persons.

A synopsis of these provisions shows that a processor
not to be regarded as a third party, but independently of this as a recipient within the meaning of Art. 4 Z 9 DSGVO
is to be evaluated, since in the course of the order processing the order processor by the
responsible personal data are disclosed or made available.

The qualification of the processor as a recipient subsequently means that
the person responsible in accordance with Article 15 (1) (c) GDPR of the data subject
must provide information.

This happened
Respondent as responsible with letter dated November 20, 2018.

in the present proceedings – how

determined – by the

On the question of whether the data subject is also to be informed of the data that is sent to the
recipients were disclosed, the Federal Administrative Court has
(BVwG) already
stated that a data subject has such a right to information about the specific
has the data transmitted to the recipient (cf. the finding of the BVwG of 09.12.2019,
GZ: W214 2221970-1).

For the present proceedings, this means that the Respondent
Complainant therefore also has to disclose the specific personal data,
which you have disclosed to your processor "B*** GmbH".

As stated, the Respondent informed the Appellant by letter dated
November 20, 2018 informed that in the course of this order processing
disclosed customer data and order data of the complainant are processed.
In addition, she informed the complainant that she also processed
Complainant's health data not disclosed to their processor
became.

In the letter dated October 25, 2018, the Respondent listed the Appellant
already - as noted - the specific data that they under the categories
"Customer data", "Order data" and "Health data" processed.

It is therefore sufficiently comprehensible for the complainant which of his
personal data was and is disclosed to the processor "B*** GmbH".
for the data protection authority, therefore, no violation of the complainant in
right to information.

Ultimately, the question arises as to whether the Respondent also agrees with the Appellant
to provide information as to when the complainant's data will be sent to the processor
were disclosed.

For such an obligation, i.e. the provision of a kind of protocol
Transmission times, however, are found neither in Art. 15 Para. 1 lit. c GDPR, nor in the
other provisions of Art. 15 GDPR corresponding indications and has the
Complainants therefore not entitled to this information.

Furthermore, it is not clear to what extent this information serves the purpose of the
right of access, which consists in becoming aware of the processing
and to be able to check their legality (cf. recital 63 GDPR).

As a result, the Respondent gave the Appellant a full
information desk
there is no violation of
complainant in his right to information.

within the meaning of Art. 15 GDPR and

It was therefore to be decided accordingly.

