 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, July 19, 2018

 

press release

 

The BayLDA can be expanded

Information and services on lda.bayern.de

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) is building its previous one

Information on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on your own website

home page further. In addition to questions that frequently arise in practice,

current data protection law, new online services are available, such as the Bavarian one

Portal for reporting data protection officers (DPO) or the form for notifications

corporate data breaches.

 

 

Current situation

About the uncertainty that has recently arisen among the population and companies as a result of the GDPR

To counteract this, the BayLDA has decided to publish its information on its own website

to expand sustainably. The aim is to focus on further practical assistance in addition to the previous offers.

ral requirements of the GDPR bundled in one place and kept up to date. This should

In addition to rapid direct help for those responsible, the large number of requests for advice that the BayLDA

has been confronted with for a few months, so that the processing times for complaints,

ten breakdowns and other processes will hopefully be significantly shorter again.

 

DSB reporting portal

All private companies, clubs and associations where at least ten people work permanently (i.e. the

majority of the time they spend for the person responsible) with the processing of personal data

data are employed must appoint a data protection officer. For this purpose, Bavarian

use the online portal of the BayLDA, which was newly set up this week, and receive reports by e-mail,

Refrain from posting or faxing. You can use the DSB reporting portal to enter your own reporting data quickly and easily

managed and changed at any time as required. In addition, there is also the possibility of

Electronic confirmation of the successful report to the supervisory authority as proof of your own documentation

to receive documentation. The reporting portal is available directly at lda.dsb-meldung.de.

 

Hotline for clubs and frequently asked questions

With the new telephone hotline set up on July 9, 2018, the BayLDA started an ad hoc measure to

targeted associations and volunteers in Bavaria in the implementation of the new European data protection law per-

to support personally. Trained staff will answer questions directly on the phone at 0981-531810

from day-to-day volunteer work. "Behind" the telephone support, the BayLDA offers an additional

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

e-mail contact to which the hotline staff will refer if they are in individual cases

couldn't help. The BayLDA then tries to answer these mail inquiries promptly and

line so that they can answer these questions directly in the future. The 10 questions that the hot

line are asked most frequently – updated weekly for the duration of the hotline – in the section:

"Frequently Asked Questions from Clubs" added. Parallel to these questions for clubs and volunteers

We receive numerous other questions from other areas, which we will briefly start with, but with one

Link to a more detailed answer in a PDF document, under the heading: "Questions about the GDPR" answered

ten. The questions and answers from both sections can be found at: lda.bayern.de/de/faq.html.

 

data breaches

Due to the new reporting regulations for data protection violations (colloquially "data breaches"

mentioned) according to Art. 33 DS-GVO, the BayLDA has adapted the existing online service to the legal requirements

gene adapted and in doing so to the common requirements of the European data protection supervisory

authority oriented. Bavarian responsible persons can prevent cyber attacks, phishing incidents, data carriers

robbery, mismail, and many other categories of data breaches without much notice.

wand directly to the BayLDA online at lda.bayern.de/de/datenpanne.html and thus the

comply with statutory reporting requirements.

 

Privacy Conference website

Parallel to the expansion of BayLDA's own website, www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

the first joint website of the Data Protection Conference (DSK), the body of independent German

German data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments. Also developed by the BayLDA

wrapped website offers important data protection information about the DSK such. B. resolutions,

resolutions and application notes at a central point and should in future be the first point of contact for DSK

serve themes.

 

Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA: “We are aware that most people keep their information about

get the internet. We are also aware that many people also deal with authorities as simply and easily as possible

want to communicate directly. The homepage of an association, a company, but also an authority

therefore gives many people a first impression. And there is no second chance to make a first impression!

Our goal with the newly designed homepage is therefore to put a lot of hopefully useful information in understandable

available in a language that is easy to find on our homepage. Our goal is also that through our online

Offers affected persons as well as associations, companies and other responsible persons as easily as possible,

be able to communicate with us unbureaucratically and securely. The uncertainty about what the new European data

property right really requires is enormous. We try to make a contribution to legal certainty with our information

means to afford. We shall see whether we have succeeded in this. We look forward to feedback on our new

homepage and are grateful for all suggestions for improvement.”

 

The BayLDA website can still be found at www.lda.bayern.de. There you can find us

over the next few weeks as we gradually provide new content. If individual topics for

may not be fully updated at this point in time, we ask that you be patient. For constructive

We are happy to provide suggestions and feedback.

 

Thomas Kranig

president

