1/12

 File No.: PS/00068/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against WUNSCHURLAUB
S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: PS/00068/2022
IMI Reference: A56ID 165225- A61VMAN 183378- Case Register 171475

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim with the
data protection authority Berlin (Germany). The claim is directed against
WUNSCHURLAUB S.L. with NIF B35896000 (hereinafter, WUNSCHURLAUB).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The website www.meine-auszeit-jetzt.de stores passwords in the clear. As
registered user, the complaining party received an unencrypted email having
clicked "forgot password", which contained your personal password (chosen by the
complaining party). On June 1, 2020, the complaining party contacted the person responsible
of treatment and described the problem. On June 2, he received a reply in which
they claim that the task was assigned to the IT department and the DPD was consulted.

Along with the claim, provide:

- Capture of email sent to the complaining party from the address
einfo@meine-auszeitjetzt.de, with the subject “Your password at meine-auszeit-jetzt.de”
and the following text (in German): “Dear A.A.A., your login password

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

is: [blacked out]. With your access data you can log in now at
www.meine-auszeit-jetzt.de and make your travel request. Kind regards".

SECOND: Through the "Internal Market Information System" (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to promote the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, as of January 27, 2020, had entry
in this Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) the aforementioned claim. He
transfer of this claim to the AEPD is carried out in accordance with the provisions
in article 56 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(hereinafter, GDPR), taking into account its cross-border nature and that this
Agency is competent to act as main control authority, given that
WUNSCHURLAUB has its registered office and unique establishment in Spain.

According to the information incorporated into the IMI System, in accordance with the
established in article 60 of the GDPR, acts as a "control authority
data subject”, in addition to the German data protection authority in Berlin, the
German authorities in Rhineland-Palatinate, Baden-Wurttemberg, Lower Saxony and
Bavaria (Private Sector). All of them under article 4.22 of the GDPR, given that
data subjects residing in these regions are likely to be
substantially affected by the treatment object of this procedure.

THIRD: On March 12, 2021, in accordance with article 64.3 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and of the powers granted in article 58.1 of the GDPR, and of
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

WUNSCHURLAUB has been requested to provide, among other information, the
user registration procedure and password security policy. In
Specifically, information has been requested on the distribution and delivery policy of the
passwords to users, both in the registration process and in the process of
password recovery when the user uses the option “Passwort
vergessen?” (Have you forgotten your password?) and information about whether by using this
option, the user is provided with the password that he had established or is assigned a
new. Likewise, information has been requested on the method of storage of
access passwords associated with users and information on whether
stored encrypted.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

WUNSCHURLAUB has stated the following:

About the registration process

The user must provide the following information during registration:

- Name and surname
-
Birthdate
-
Phone
- Address
- Email
- Password of free choice (twice, without being displayed on the screen)

At the end of the registration, the user receives a customer number, generated
automatically.

The representatives of WUNSCHURLAUB indicate that when entering the system (performing
login), the user cannot see or access their data, only the name and
surname indicating that it is in use. Password when entered never appears
in clear, always with star symbols and it is not used for accessing the data, but rather
only to allow entry to the page in order to request an offer for a
specific trip, not having any relationship with the database.

Regarding the storage of data, they only indicate in a generic way that
performed with MySQL, and that the provider is certified ISO 27001:2013 and ISO
9001:2015. The question of whether it is stored encrypted is not answered.

However, about the option “Passwort vergessen?” (Have you forgotten your password?)
WUNSCHURLAUB representatives confirm that with this option the user,
indicating your personal customer number and your date of birth, you receive an email
e-mail with a clear password, the one you chose when registering.

The representatives of WUNSCHURLAUB indicate that they want to add that they have been
faced with a case of blackmail: the complaining party has sent them an email
e-mail with the offer of its services to improve security, advising that
In the case of denying it, he would be forced to take measures, that is, denounce the
company to the authority, having answered that they are not interested in their
services, and including a detailed explanation of the use of the password.

Regarding the volume of treatments carried out: the entity has declared having
37,715 users as of April 6, 2021.

No actions have been found in the information systems of this Agency
above related to WUNSCHURLAUB.

According to AXESOR, WUNSCHURLAUB is an SME established in 2006, with 7
employees and a sales volume of 3.33 million euros (according to the
last exercise presented in 2019).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

FIFTH: On February 24, 2022, the Director of the AEPD adopted a
draft decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. following the process
established in article 60 of the GDPR, was transmitted through the IMI system this
draft decision and the authorities concerned were informed that they had
four weeks from that time to raise pertinent objections and
motivated. Within the term for this purpose, the control authorities concerned shall not
presented pertinent and reasoned objections in this regard, for which reason it is considered
that all authorities agree with said draft decision and are
linked by it, in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of article 60
of the GDPR.

This draft decision was notified to WUNSCHURLAUB in accordance with the rules
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) on March 1
of 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Competition and applicable regulations

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of articles 58.2 and 60 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free circulation of these data (GDPR), and as established in articles 47,
48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 and 68.2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection
of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the GDPR, there is
the processing of personal data, since WUNSCHURLAUB
carries out the collection and conservation of, among others, the following personal data of
natural persons: name and surname, date of birth and email, among
other treatments.

WUNSCHURLAUB carries out this activity in its capacity as person in charge of the
treatment, since it is who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of
of article 4.7 of the GDPR. In addition, it is a cross-border processing, given

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

that WUNSCHURLAUB is established in Spain, although it provides services to other
European Union countries.

The GDPR provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of cross-border processing,
provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the authority of
main control, that, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the authority of
control of the main establishment or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the
The person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as control authority
for the cross-border processing carried out by said controller or
commissioned in accordance with the procedure established in article 60. In the case
examined, as has been exposed, WUNSCHURLAUB has its unique establishment
in Spain, so the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent
to act as the main supervisory authority.

For its part, article 4 section 12 of the GDPR defines, in a broad way, the
“personal data security violations” (hereinafter security breach)
as "all those violations of security that cause the destruction,
accidental or unlawful loss or alteration of personal data transmitted, stored
or otherwise processed, or unauthorized disclosure of or access to such data.”

In the present case, there is a personal data security breach in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality, by
passwords of the users of the website meine-auszeit-jetzt.de are sent to each other at
clear.

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the
imposition of a sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary
analyze the diligence of managers and managers and security measures
applied.

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the GDPR, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the GDPR. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in article 32 of the GDPR, which regulates the security of the treatment.

II

Security measures

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the safety of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

In the present case, at the time the breach occurred, it is clear that
WUNSCHURLAUB sent all users who made use of its website
the option “Passwort vergessen?” (Have you forgotten your password?) an email
with a clear password, the one that the user had chosen when registering,
with which it is verified that it was possible to access the user's password to
send it to him in case of forgetfulness and that the security measures are, by all accounts,
insufficient.

According to the evidence available at this time in
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
investigation, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to WUNSCHURLAUB, for violation of article 32 of the GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

IV.

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge according to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679”. (…)

Penalty for violation of article 32 of the GDPR

V

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with
the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

As aggravating factors:

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered (section a): due to the storage of passwords without the measures
adequate security, of at least 37,715 users, from June 1,
2020 to present.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR, with
regarding the infringement committed by violating the provisions of article 32 of the GDPR,
initially allows a penalty of €3,000 (three thousand euros) to be set.

SAW

imposition of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible that within the term
within 60 days, proceed to adapt the storage of your users' passwords
so that they are not stored in the clear and to implement a new procedure so that
Users can recover their passwords, according to what has already been indicated, without
detriment of others that may derive from the instruction of the procedure, from

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each
The supervisory authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
processing operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a time limit
specified…". The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

Likewise, the measures that could be adopted in the resolution that puts an end to the
procedure, in relation to the storage of passwords, would be of
application in all countries of the European Union in which it operates
WUNSCHURLAUB.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body could be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,
HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against WUNSCHURLAUB S.L.,
with NIF B35896000, for the alleged violation of Article 32 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.4 of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, S.S.S., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
documentation from IMI that has given rise to the previous actions of
investigation, as well as the documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate
General of Data Inspection in the actions prior to the start of this
disciplinary procedure and documentation from IMI on the project
decision.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
sanction that could correspond would be 3000.00 euros, without prejudice to what
results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to WUNSCHURLAUB S.L., with NIF
B35896000, granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 2,400.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 2,400.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination
of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 1,800.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (2,400.00 euros or 1,800.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

935-110422

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On July 27, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the penalty in the amount of 1800 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above, which implies recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FOURTH: In the previously transcribed initiation agreement, it was indicated that, if
Once the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the controller the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

Having recognized the responsibility for the infringement, the imposition of
the measures included in the Initiation Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00068/2022, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: REQUIRE WUNSCHURLAUB S.L. so that within a month
notify the Agency of the adoption of the measures described in the
legal foundations of the initiation agreement transcribed in this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to WUNSCHURLAUB S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

1259-070622
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

