

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data in connection with the handling of personal documents of patients (UOOU-02203/20)
HOSPITAL


The inspection of the hospital (subsidized organization) was initiated on the basis of a notification of a breach of personal data security. From the aforementioned announcement, possible deficiencies in the security of personal data were implied, when the patient's personal documents were supposed to be lost, but it was not clear from the initial description how the given event occurred. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations in the processing of personal data established by the General Regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the handling of personal documents of patients. The inspection focused on compliance with the obligations set out in Articles 24 and 25 of the General Regulation, generally in the sense of setting internal procedures, and further targeted a specific case of loss of personal documents, which was reported to the Office as a breach of personal data security. The inspectors noted that, with regard to the subject of the inspection, the inspected person documented the organizational and technical measures taken in accordance with the provisions of Articles 24 and 25 of the General Regulation. In the case of a breach of personal data security, the audited person did not provide further details as part of the initial notification, and only during the audit did the actual description of the event emerge. The patient did not put his personal documents in safekeeping and kept them in the bedside table in the room. Here, however, a nurse accidentally picked them up and handed them to another patient who was just being discharged. He did not notice the confusion and only later did his family member report the confusion. He later handed over the documents at another health center, where the driver was supposed to pick them up and bring them to the person being checked. However, as part of this, there was a loss, and it is not clear at what point, and who was in possession of them at the time. On the basis of the observed events, the inspectors concluded that the assessment of the application of Article 33 of the General Regulation in the given case is not relevant, because in this particular matter of the loss of personal documents, it was not a case falling within the material scope of the General Regulation, as defined in its Article 2 para. 1.Additional information: In case of notification of a breach of personal data security within the meaning of Article 33 of the General Regulation, it is necessary to provide the Office with all information according to paragraph 3 of the cited article, while the description of the event should be as comprehensive as possible. A consistent description of the event always contributes to a quick and effective resolution of the incident.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Health care > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with handling of patients' personal documents (UOOU-02203/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



