 
 
 

 

 

A P O F A S H 13/2023

(Department)

 
Athens, 21-3-2023
Prot. No.: 722
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
  
composition of the Department via teleconference on 15-03-2023 at 10:30 a.m., after
at the invitation of its President, in order to examine the case which
refers to the history of the present. They were attended by George Batzalexis,
Deputy President, standing in the way of the President of the Constantine Authority
Menoudakou, and the alternate members Demosthenes Vougioukas, and Maria
Psalla, as rapporteur, in place of regular members Constantinos
Lambrinoudakis and Grigorio Tsolias respectively, who did not attend due to
obstacle although they were legally summoned in writing. Present without the right to vote,
the auditor was Georgia Panagopoulou, specialist IT scientist, as
assistant rapporteur and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the department
of administrative affairs, as secretary.

The Authority took into account the following:

It was submitted to the Authority under no. prot. G/EIS/7789/07-06-2022 complaint from
A (hereinafter "complainant"), against Vodafone (hereinafter "complainant" for
receiving an email message with another subscriber's account information;

Specifically, the complainant states that "THEY ARE SENT TO
ABOVE MY EMAIL ADDRESS FOR ACCOUNT
STABLE TO WHICH I AM NOT CONTRACTED. I HAVE EXERCISED THE RIGHT
ACCESS GIVEN TO ME BY THE REGULATION, WITHOUT RECEIVING AN ANSWER. IN

 

1

COMPLAINTANT'S RESPONSE EMAIL STATED THEY HAVE BEEN CORRECTED
MOVE AND SO I WILL NOT BE DISTURBED AGAIN. DESPITE THIS I CONTINUE TO
I'M RECEIVING EMAILS AND BEING ANNOYED BY THE COMPLAINT. FIND ATTACHED
RELATED CORRESPONDENCE.". The information leaked to the recipient was o
subscriber's phone number and billing amount.

The complainant exercised the right of erasure to Vodafone on ... and
was informed on … that all the requirements have been successfully completed
corrective actions to satisfy her request as early as ...,
however, by mistake, the relevant information was not sent.

The Authority sent the complainant with no. prot. C/EXE/1460/14-06-
2022 document with which he informed about the content of the submitted
complaint and invited her to submit her views on it in writing
complaint.

The complainant responded with G/EIS/9131/26-07-2022, in which
reported that there was a system error that was fixed. The error occurred
after the implementation of the integration project of its information systems
of our company for issuing monthly fixed and mobile bills
telephony. The company, after being notified of the complaint under consideration, proceeded
directly to the set of required corrective actions, in order to
the accuracy of the subscriber's data is confirmed.

Then the Authority, in order to complete its examination
case, call me with no. prot. C/EXE/2741/31-10-2022 document, dated
denounced company, at the meeting of the Department on 11-16-2022.

Emmanuel attended this meeting on behalf of Vodafone
Chalkiadakis with AMDSA ..., Apostolos Vorras with AMDSA ... Emmanuel
Demogerontakis with AMDSA ... as well as B, its data protection officer
company.

After the meeting the complained company submitted the no. first
C/EIS/12192/30-11-2022 memorandum, in which he summarized what he had already mentioned
regarding the complaint.

 

2

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who attended without
right to vote, after thorough discussion,

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

1. According to article 5, paragraph 1 d' of the GDPR, for the processing to be legal
personal data (simple and special categories), must be processed
to be governed by the principle of accuracy of data, according to which
data should be accurate and, where necessary, to
are updated. All reasonable steps should be taken to immediately
deletion or correction of inaccurate personal data,
in relation to the purposes of the processing ("accuracy"),

2. According to article 17 GDPR, sec. 1, d the data subject has the
right to request the deletion of personal data concerning him
without undue delay and the controller is obliged
to delete personal data if the personal data
character were processed illegally.

3. According to article 12, paragraph 3 of the GDPR, the data controller provides
to the data subject information about the action that
carried out on request under Articles 15 to 22 without
delay and in any case within one month of its receipt
request.

4. In this particular case it appears that incorrect contact information,
i.e. the e-mail address of the complainant they had
introduced into the system due to a system error, which then occurred
from the implementation of the integration project of its information systems
company for issuing monthly fixed and mobile bills
telephony. The complainant, after the notification under consideration
complaint, immediately proceeded with all the required corrections
actions, in order to confirm the accuracy of the observed

 

3

data of the subscriber.

 

Based on the above, the Authority unanimously considers that it should be imposed on
denounced company as controller or the one referred to in the ordinance
administrative sanction, which is considered proportional to the gravity of the violation.
 

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

The Authority addresses the complained Vodafone company in accordance with article 57 paragraph 2 b)
GDPR reprimand for the established violation of the principle of accuracy
of personal data (article 5 par. 1 d' of the General Data Protection Regulation) as well as for
established violation of the deadline for the satisfaction of the right
erasure (article 12 par. 3 of the GDPR).
 

 

 

 

 

The Deputy President

 

George Batzalexis

The Secretary
 
 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

4

