
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02/21/2020
                                European Data Protection Day - "Artificial Intelligence - between promotion and taming" on the subject of artificial intelligence (AI) took place on January 28, 2020 under the direction of the chairman of the data protection conference 2019, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann (LfDI), the 14th European Data Protection Day at the European Commission Representation in Berlin. The aim of the event was to find political, economic and legal answers to the use of AI systems and to conclude the presidency of the data protection conference 2019 with the main topic for 2019.
                
                        
                                @LfDI RLP
                            
                    
            
                
                        
                                @LfDI RLP
                            
                    
            After an introduction by Bernhard Schmidtke, the representative of the European Commission in Germany and the LfDI Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, prominent speakers discussed the effects of artificial intelligence on society. While Bernhard Schmidtke emphasized that it is no longer possible to go it alone in Europe when it comes to data protection, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann emphasized the importance of the individual's perspective on AI.Prof. dr Helge Braun, Federal Minister for Special Tasks and Head of the Federal Chancellery, emphasized that the protection of data in AI could possibly be the issue of prosperity in our century. The AI is competing against humans with the aim of replacing them, although the technology should only serve humans. Europe is the place of longing in the world and this is also reflected in data protection after a look at the east and west of the world. Paul Nemitz, Member of the European Commission and Data Ethics Committee, focused on the importance of democracy and fundamental rights in AI. The principles of democracy are opposed to those of technology, which is partly due to the fact that the former are addressed to people and the latter to computers. The General Data Protection Regulation is the currently applicable basis for the regulation of AI and therefore a law on AI would prove to be less complex than the General Data Protection Regulation. Martini, Deputy Director of the German Research Institute for Public Administration and member of the Data Ethics Commission, the legal basis of algorithms. He emphasized that according to the Basic Law, only judges have the power to make decisions about natural persons. Since, in contrast to AI, they have received sound training, the use of AI raises ethical questions. According to Prof. Dr. Katharina Zweig, professor for complex systems at the Technical University of Kaiserslautern and member of the Enquête Commission of the German Bundestag, one should not only talk about the "one" AI, since there are many different forms of AI, ranging from algorithmic decision-making systems to ontologies and learning systems were enough. She pointed out that the capabilities of AI are generally overestimated. Birgit Stark, Director of the Mainz Media Institute, divided algorithms into three different groups and emphasized that these groups have different perceptions: While users are highly aware of the use of algorithms for unwanted AI content, it is wanted content low. The presentations were subdivided into panel discussions moderated by Ralph Szepanski (ZDF), which addressed, among other things, whether one should intervene in AI systems from the start and whether algorithms should be transparent from the start. In addition, not only democratic participation options are important with AI, but also the user-friendly interpretation of the law by data protection officers. You can find the individual presentations under the following links:
Prof. Dr. Mario Martini Prof. Dr. Katharina Zweig Prof. dr Bridget Stark
                                return
                            



