   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

 
To:  Utility Guard Ltd  
 
Of:    Demar House, 14 Church Road, East Wittering, Chichester, 
 
 
1. 

West Sussex, England PO20 8PS 

The  Information  Commissioner  (“the  Commissioner”)  has  decided  to 
issue Utility Guard Ltd (“UGL”) with an enforcement notice under section 
40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is being issued 
because of a serious contravention of regulation 21 of the Privacy and 
Electronic  Communications  (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  (“PECR”). 
 
This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

         Legal framework 
 
3. 

UGL,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies  House 
Registration Number: 12701172) is the organisation stated in this notice 
to have used a public electronic communications service for the purpose 
of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of direct marketing contrary 
to regulation 21 of PECR.  
 
Regulation  21  applies  to  the  making  of  unsolicited  calls  for  direct 
marketing  purposes.  It  means  that  if a  company  wants  to  make  calls 

1 

2. 

 

4. 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

promoting  a  product  or  service  to  an  individual  who  has  a  telephone 
number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 
do not object to receiving such calls from it. 
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 

“(1)  A  person  shall  neither  use,  nor  instigate  the  use  of,  a  public 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited 
calls for direct marketing purposes where- 

5. 
 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously notified 
the caller that such calls should not for the time being be made 
on that line; or 

the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the called line 
is one listed in the register kept under regulation 26.” 
 

Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

6. 
  
         “(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

   of paragraph (1). 

 

 

 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 
where  the  number  allocated  to  the  called  line  has  been  listed  on  the 
register for less than 28 days preceding that on which the call is made. 

(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line of 
his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has notified a 
caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls being 
made on that line by that caller, such calls may be made by that caller 

2 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

on that line, notwithstanding that the number allocated to that line is 
listed in the said register. 
 
(5)  Where  a  subscriber  has  given  a  caller  notification  pursuant  to 
paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

 

 
7. 

8. 

 
9. 

 

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at any 
time, and 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not make 
such calls on that line.” 

Under regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct marketing purposes on those lines. The TPS is a limited company 
which operates the register on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses 
who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to the 
TPS for a fee and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on that 
register. 
 
Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18  defines  direct  marketing  as  “the 
communication  (by  whatever  means)  of  advertising  material  or 
marketing  material  which  is  directed  to  particular  individuals”.  This 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR 
& Schedule 19 paragraphs 430 & 432(6) DPA18). 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic communications 
services for the supply of such services”. 

 
11.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are exercisable 
by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and extended for 
the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 

12.  Section  40(1)(a)  of  the  DPA  (as  extended  and  modified  by  PECR) 
provides  that  if  the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  a  person  has 
contravened  or  is  contravening  any  of  the  requirements  of  the 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring him 
to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to refrain 
from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps as are so 
specified.  
 

in 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to  protect  the  individual’s  fundamental  right  to 
the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 
privacy 
subsequently  amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner  will 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ overall 
aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy rights. 

 
14.  The  provisions  of  the  DPA  remain  in  force  for  the  purposes  of  PECR 
notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 
        The contravention 
 
15.  The Commissioner finds that UGL contravened regulation 21 of PECR. 
  
16.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
17.  Between  4  August  2020  and  28  July  2021,  UGL  used  a  public 
telecommunications service for the purposes of making 1,932 unsolicited 
calls  for  direct  marketing  purposes  to  subscribers  where  the  number 
allocated to the subscriber in respect of the called line was a number 
listed  on  the  register  of  numbers  kept  by  the  Commissioner  in 
accordance with regulation 26, contrary to regulation 21(1)(b) of PECR. 
This  resulted  in  a  complaint  to  the  West  Sussex  Trading  Standards 
(WSTS) which was subsequently referred to the Commissioner, and a 
complaint to the TPS. 

  
18.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of regulation 21 that 
these 1,932 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to subscribers 
who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to receiving the 
calls, and who for the purposes of regulation 21(4) had not notified UGL 
that they did not object to receiving such calls. 
 

19.  For such notification to be valid under regulation 21(4), the individual 
must  have  taken  a  clear  and  positive  action  to  override  their  TPS 
registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls from 
the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s choice about 
whether  or  not  they  are  willing  to  receive  marketing  calls.  Therefore, 
where signing up to use a product or service is conditional upon receiving 
marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this constitutes 
a clear and positive notification of the individual’s willingness to receive 
such calls.  
 

20.  The  notification  must  clearly  indicate  the  individual’s  willingness  to 
receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on individuals 
opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it is clear that 
this will include telephone calls.   

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

21.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness to 
receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications will 
not be valid for the purposes of regulation 21(4) if individuals are asked 
to  agree  to  receive  marketing  calls  from  “similar  organisations”, 
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions.  

 
22.  The Commissioner would note that the sole response provided by UGL 
to  his  enquiries  is  general  in  its  content,  and  fails  to  provide  specific 
answers  to  the  28  questions  asked.  The  Commissioner  has  therefore 
been  required  to  conduct  enquiries  with  UGL’s  CSP  to  determine  the 
extent of its direct marketing activity.   
 

23.  UGL has advised the Commissioner that it purchases the data for its calls 
from third-party data providers. It gave a single example, UK Datahouse, 
but  has  not  provided  any  copies  of  contracts  or  purchase  orders 
regarding the data it acquires. It is not clear whether UGL contracts with 
other third-party data providers as no such details have been provided, 
despite the Commissioner’s request.  
 

24.  UGL has failed to provide any evidence that the data it purchased from 
its  third-party  data  provider(s)  had  provided  valid  notification  in 
accordance with regulation 21(4) to be contacted by UGL, or that it even 
sought assurances of such notification.   
 

25.  UGL has claimed that it “checks data against the TPS list”, however no 
further  details  have  been  provided  as  to  the  frequency  and  extent  of 
those purported checks. Furthermore, the Commissioner has evidence 
obtained  from  the  TPS  directly  that  UGL  in  fact  does  not  hold  a  TPS 
licence, and has not previously conducted any checks against the TPS 
register.  

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

26.  There is  no evidence that UGL contracts a third-party to conduct TPS 
checks  on  its  behalf,  nor  is  there  any  evidence  to  suggest  that  UGL 
contractually requires its third-party data providers to provide evidence 
of such checks being conducted prior to it purchasing data.   
 

27.  Despite being asked to do so, UGL has failed to provide copies of any 

policies/procedures regarding its responsibilities under PECR.  

 
28.  For the reasons above, the Commissioner is satisfied that UGL did not 
hold valid notification to engage in the 1,932 direct marketing calls to 
TPS-registered subscribers.  

 
29.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under section 
40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when deciding 
whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any contravention has 
caused  or  is  likely  to  cause  any  person  damage  or  distress.  The 
Commissioner has decided that it is likely that damage or distress has 
been caused in this instance, not least given the detail of the complaint 
made to WSTS, and the risk that other vulnerable individuals have been 
affected by this contravention. 
 

30.  In  view  of  the  matters  referred  to  above  the  Commissioner 
hereby gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under section 
40  of  the  DPA,  he  requires  UGL  to  take  the  steps  specified  in 
Annex 1 of this Notice. 
 
Right of Appeal 

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
31.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 
(Information  Rights),  part  of  the  General  Regulatory  Chamber. 
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2.  

 
Dated the 28th day of November 2022  
 
Andy Curry  
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF  

 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 1 
 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 
UGL shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 

 
•  Neither  use,  nor 

instigate  the  use  of,  a  public  electronic 
communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited calls 
for  direct  marketing  purposes  where  the  called  line  is  that  of: 
 

(a) a subscriber who has previously notified UGL that such calls 
should not be made on that line; or  
 
(b) a subscriber who has registered their number with the TPS at 
least 28 days previously and who has not notified UGL that they 
do not object to such calls being made. 

 

9 

 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
ANNEX 2 
 
 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

 
1. 

 
2. 
 

 
3. 

Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon 
whom an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the 
notice. 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:- 

a) 

 
b) 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
accordance with the law; or 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
the Commissioner, that she ought to have exercised her 
discretion differently,  

 
the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
could have been made by the Commissioner.  In any other case the 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
at the following address: 

General Regulatory Chamber 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 

 
 

 
 
 
                 PO Box 9300 
                 Leicester 
                 LE1 8DJ  
 

 

10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
 

Telephone: 0300 123 4504 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

 

 
4.  

 

 

•  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 

days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent  

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier Tribunal 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal 
Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 
2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 

11 

