ICO. 

Commissioner's 

Information 

Office 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, 

Cheshire 

SK9 5AF 

Tel. 0303 

123 1113 Fax. 01625 524 510 www.ico.org.uk 

Upholding 

information 
rights 

(NHSBT) 

Park 

NHS Blood and  Transplant 
500 North  Bristol 
Northway 
Filton 
Bristol 
BS34 7QH 

Date:  9 May 2022 

Dear 

Case  Reference Number:  INV /0501/2020 

Thank you for your latest correspondence  to 
In this, you provided 
of NHSBT's representations 

the ICO's  further 

a response to 

of  7 December 2021. 

the ICO of 26 January 2022. 

enquiries 

in respect 

I write to inform you that the ICO  has now reached  a 
respect of 

into INV/0501/2020. 

its investigation 

final decision 

in 

at the centre of this investigation 

concerns the 

inadvertent 

development 

code for  a future liver scheme into 

This integration 

error  led  to  a number of 

of untested 

The incident 
integration 
NHSBT's live environment. 
prospective 
Matching 

transplant 

patients 

being excluded  from 

NHSBT's Liver 

Run (LMR) between 11 and  18  September 2019. 

This case has 
Regulation 

been considered 

under The General Data Protection 

(the GDPR) due to the nature of the processing 

involved. 

Our  consideration  of this case 

Key compliance 

issues 

As you are aware, the ICO previously 
to NHSBT on  9 November 2021. This outlined 
intention 
infringements of Article 
not necessary 

an administrative 

to issue 

32 of the GDPR. It  has been determined 

fine to NHSBT. 

that it is 
Rather, it has 

submitted 

a Notice 

of Intent (NOi) 

to issue NHSBT with an administrative 

fine of  £749,856  for 

the Commissioner's 

1 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

been decided that  a reprimand  would  be appropriate.  This  letter  sets  out 
the reason for  that  decision. 

You will  be aware  that  the Commissioner  found  that  NHSBT  had failed  to 
implement sufficient technical and organisational measures to ensure a 
level of  security  appropriate  to  the  risk  to  the integrity,  availability and 
resilience of  its transplant matching systems. 

Significant contributing  factors  to  the  above  infringements include: 

a.  a  lack  of  appropriate  branch or  version  control  to  ensure  that 

developers  could not  unknowingly  introduce  untested  code  into 
NHSBT's  live environment; 

b.  a  lack  appropriate  peer reviewing  of developers'  work  to  reduce  the 

likelihood  of  inadvertent  coding  errors  being  introduced; 

c.  inadequate  knowledge  and  understanding  by  all  relevant  staff 

members  as to  the  scope  of regression  testing  required  prior  to  the 
launch  of new  organ matching schemes into  NHSBT's  live  environment; 
and 

d.  a  lack  of  appropriate  training for  staff  in  respect  of code  testing, 

branch  control  and  the use of  peer  review. 

It  is  considered  that  taking such steps would  have  reduced the likelihood 
of  the  incident occurring. 

The contraventions  in  this  case involved data  belonging  to vulnerable 
individuals;  namely those awaiting  an organ  transplant.  NHSBT's  failure to 
properly process  such  data  could  result  in  data  subjects  not being  offered 
lifesaving  treatment. 

In  this  case,  a total of  five  data subjects are  identified  as having  been 
directly  affected  by the  incident  - ie they  were not  offered  potential liver 
transplants  during the  relevant  breach period  as  intended.  Three  of these 
patients experienced  delays in receiving a  liver  transplant.  The remaining 
two  patients  were in fact not well  enough  to  receive a  liver  transplant had 
it been  offered  in  the  relevant  period. 

As  per the  ICO's  NOi,  it  is  considered  that  the  gravity  of the  incident 
extends  beyond those  directly affected,  as  the risk  of detriment  to  other 
patients on  the  LMR was equally high.  This  is because there  was the 

2 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

potential for  further individuals to  have  received liver matches  during  the 
time of  the  coding  defect. 

Further,  the  coding merge  caused  a total  of four  unforeseen,  yet 'critical', 
defects  within  NHSBT's  live environment which could have affected an 
even greater  number  of individuals. 

The  ICO  also  notes that the  LMR  omissions  error  only  appears  to have 
come to  light  following  an external transplant centre  query.  It therefore 
cannot be discounted that  a higher  number  of patients  could  have missed 
liver transplant offers over  a longer  period of  time  had this 
communication not  occurred. 

Mitigating  factors  and remedial  action 

As  referenced within its  NOi,  the  ICO has  considered  and welcomes the 
measures  taken by  NHSBT  to  mitigate  the  risk of further  damage  being 
caused  to  affected  data  subjects.  These measures  include: 

a.  Halting  further  code  releases into  NHSBT's  live environment  until  an 

assurance  review  of  its  testing  procedures  on each  of  the  27  systems 
directly impacting  patient safety  had  been  undertaken. 

b.  Contracting  a specialist  consultancy  to independently  verify  the 

framework  NHSBT  uses  to simulate the full test lifecycle and  process 
for  code  releases. 

c.  Making  an  immediate policy  change to  regression  test all organ 

allocation schemes for  every release,  even  where  no changes are  due 
to  be made for  any  organ  type.  These tests  were to  be  conducted  by 
NHSBT's  highly specialised Statistics Team. 

d.  Informing affected data subjects and/or their family members  of  the 

incident via  Duty  of  Candour  letters,  alongside offers by  NHSBT's 
clinical team  to meet  with  data  subjects and/or  their family members 
to  discuss  the  incident  in more  detail  and  address  any  outstanding 
concerns. 

e.  Prioritising  patients who  had missed liver  transplant offers  in the 

relevant  breach  period  where it  was deemed  appropriate  for  them to 
undertake a  procedure. 

3 

ICO.
Information Commissioner's Office  

Investigation  outcome 

After  careful  consideration  and based  on the information provided  to  date, 
the Commissioner hereby confirms that  he will not  be proceeding  with 
formal enforcement  action  against  NHSBT  in  relation to  the  alleged 
contraventions  of the of the  GDPR  as  detailed  within  the  NOi  dated  9 
November  2021.  As  explained in the  opening paragraph  of  this  letter,  that 
means that an  administrative fine will  not  be  issued  to  NHSBT in 
connection with  this matter. 

However,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  NHSBT  with a  reprimand 
in accordance  with  Article  58  of the  GDPR.  To  confirm,  this  reprimand has 
been issued  in  respect of the following processing  operations  that  have 
infringed the  GDPR: 

•  Article  32 (l)(b)  - Security  of  processing 

This  states: 

'l.  Taking into account the state  of the art,  the  costs of 
implementation  and  the  nature,  scope,  context and  purposes  of 
processing as well as  the  risk  of varying likelihood  and  severity for  the 
rights  and  freedoms  of natural  persons,  the  controller  and the 
processor  shall implement appropriate  technical and organisational 
measures  to ensure a level of  security  appropriate  to  the  risk,  including 
inter  alia  as appropriate: 

... (b)  the  ability  to ensure the  ongoing confidentiality,  integrity, 
availability and  resilience  of processing systems and  services'. 

The basis of  this  reprimand  is as outlined earlier in  this letter  under  the 
sub-heading 'key  compliance  issues'. 

Further  action recommended 

Alongside  the  ICO's decision to  issue  NHSBT  with a  reprimand in this 
case,  the Commissioner also recommends that  NHSBT  takes  certain  steps 
to  improve  its compliance with  the  (UK)  GDPR  and implement sufficient 
technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  a level of  security 
appropriate  to  the risk  to the integrity,  availability  and  resilience  of its 
transplant matching systems. 

4 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

In  particular: 

1.  Ensure that all  remedial measures  set  out  in  NHSBT's  Root  Cause 

Analysis  (RCA)  action plan are  completed. 

In  particular,  it is  noted  that  Action  13  - to  review  MPD1226  to  ensure 
this  is  fit  for  purpose and  amended  accordingly  - remains  outstanding. 

Note:  A  copy  of  the  latest  RCA action  plan  provided  to the  ICO  has 
been  attached to  this  letter for  your viewing. 

2.  Ensure that  appropriate  training  is provided  to  internal staff  (and 

external  contractors  as  necessary)  in  respect  of  NHSBT's  established 
branch control  and testing  procedures  for  code  development  and 
release at appropriate  intervals. 

3.  Ensure that mandatory  data  protection  training  is undertaken  by 

supplier provided contractors  where  such  roles require access  to/have 
the potential to impact  NHSBT  data. 

For  completeness,  we ask  that  NHSBT  provides  a  progress  update  to the 
ICO  on  the above recommendations in  six  months' time,  or  by  no later 
than  9  November  2022.  Unless  otherwise  instructed,  please  provide this 
update to 

It must be emphasised that  the  ICO's  decision to issue a reprimand in this 
case  does  not  detract  from  the seriousness of this incident,  and  has been 
reached  on  the  balance  of  all  information  available to  our  office  prior  to 
and following  NHSBT's  legal representations. 

Therefore,  whilst  the above measures are  suggestions,  I  would like to 
point  out that  if  further information  relating  to  this  incident  comes  to 
light,  or  if  any  further incidents or complaints  of a similar nature are 
reported  to  us,  we will revisit  this matter and  formal  regulatory  action 
may be considered  as  a result. 

Further information  about compliance  with the  data  protection legislation 
which is  relevant  to this case  can  be found  at the following  link: 
https: //ico. org. u k/for-organ isations/guide-to-data-protection/ 

We  actively  publicise  our  regulatory  activity and  outcomes,  as this helps 
us  to  achieve  our  strategic  aims  in  upholding  information rights in the 
public  interest.  We  may  publish  information  about cases  reported  to us, 

5 

•

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

for  example  where  we  think  there  is an opportunity for  other 
organisations  to  learn  or  where the  case  highlights a  risk or novel  issue. 

Therefore,  we may publish  the  outcome of this investigation to  publicise 
our  regulatory authority and new  powers  under the  UK  GDPR.  We will 
publish information in  accordance  with our Communicating Regulatory 
and  Enforcement  Activity  Policy,  which is  available  online at the following 
link: 

https: //ico.org. u k/media/about­
the%20ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico  enforcement  communications 

policy. pdf 

Please let  us  know  if  you have  any  concerns  about this. 

Thank  you for  your  co-operation and assistance  during the course  of  our 
investigation. 

We  now  consider  the  case  closed. 

Yours sincerely 

Lead  Case  Officer 
Civil  Investigations 
Regulatory  Supervision  Service 
The  Information  Commissioner's  Office 

Please note that  we  are  olten asked for copies  of  the  correspondence  we 
exchange with third  parties.  We  are  subject to  all  of the laws we  deal 
with,  including  the United  Kingdom  General  Data  Protection  Regulation, 
the  Data  Protection  Act  2018  and the  Freedom  of  Information  Act  2000. 
You can read about  these on  our  website  (www. ico. org. uk) . 

The  ICO  publishes  basic  details about  the  complaints,  investigations and 
self-reported data breaches  it  handles.  These  details include the name  of 
the organisation  concerned,  the dates that  we opened  and  closed the 
case,  and  the  outcome.  Examples  of published data sets can  be found  at 
this link:  https://ico. org. uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints­
and-concerns-data-sets/. 

We  do not  include personal  data in the  published datasets and  will 
anonymise  the  names of  sole traders  etc  prior to  publication.  We  also  do 
not publish  cases concerning domestic  CCTV  complaints  and may not 

6 

•

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

publish certain other  cases if we feel  it  is  not  appropriate  to  do  so  in  the 
circumstances. 

If  you  wish to  raise an  objection  to us  publishing  a  case  in  the  datasets, 
whether or  not  we have  published it yet,  please  contact  us explaining 
your reasons  for  this  at  accessicoinformation@ico. org. uk. 

Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential.  You should also say why so that we can take that  into 
consideration.  However,  please note that  we  will only  withhold 
information where there  is good  reason  to do  so. 

For  information about  what  we  do  with personal data  see our  privacy 
notice at  www. ico. org. uk/privacy-notice. 

7 

