  Thursday, March 30, 2023 2: Press Releases Testing criteria for “pure subscription models” on websites PRESS RELEASE
the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
of the federal and state governments of March 30th, 2023   For some time now, so-called "pure subscription models" have been increasingly offered, especially on media websites. The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) has now published its decision on the "Assessment of pure subscription models on websites" from March 22nd, 2023. Press release as PDF document With a "pure subscription model", users of a website are usually given two options via a consent banner in order to be able to read the content of the website: they either take out a "pure subscription" or they consent - without a "pure subscription" - that their data may be used for profile-based and individualized advertising. Only if the "pure subscription" is selected, the website can be used without tracking their behavior, individual profiling and personalized advertising. The users therefore do not pay for the content on the website, e.g. B. Newspaper articles, but that their personal data is not monetized by digital marketing in the context of use. Since the introduction of the first "pure subscription models", the supervisory authorities have regularly received complaints about websites offering these models. The data protection conference has now specified and defined the requirements for "pure subscription models" in its resolution on the "Assessment of pure subscription models on websites". In practice, the resolution can serve as an aid for the specific design of a “pure subscription model”. In particular, the data protection conference determined with the decision that the tracking of user behavior (tracking) can in principle be based on consent if a tracking-free model is offered as an alternative, even if this is chargeable. If there are several processing purposes, it must be possible to grant granular consent. With the decision, the test standards of the data protection supervisory authorities in complaints procedures will become much more transparent for the public. The decision "Assessment of Pur subscriptions on websites" is published at: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/pm/DSK_Beschluss_Wertung_von_Pur-Abo-Modellen_auf_Websites.pdf Further information on the data protection conference, the merger of the independent German data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments, is available from: www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de Contact:
Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98
24103 Kiel
Telephone: 0431 988 1289
Email: dsk2023@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: dsk, news, press releases, trackingArticles with similar topics: Data protection ensures free democratic elections - Planned EU regulation on transparency and on the targeting of political advertising Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer Academy in Kiel on September 11, 2023 5 years of the General Data Protection Regulation: Proven standard, implementable, internationally recognized 105th conference of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities: Employee data protection, AI in the police, radio water meters, sovereign cloud Everything you want to know about data protection, simply explained – the youth portal youngdata.de with a new website