1/85

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00326/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 11, 2018, the director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agrees to initiate these investigative actions aimed at
to clarify the facts in relation to the news that appeared in the press about the possible
Violation of data protection regulations by the National League of
Professional Football and the application for mobile devices of La Liga. (appLALIGA or the
application hereinafter).
Likewise, on June 19, 2018, this Agency received a letter from FACUA
denouncing the National Professional Football League on the occasion of the creation by
of that entity of a mobile application that can indiscriminately capture sounds
environments of the place where the user is.
They indicate that collecting ambient sound in catering establishments may imply
capturing conversations that may reveal personal data of third parties
people who have not given their consent for the processing of said data by
any means, which would be particularly burdensome if such talks could
hold specially protected data.
SECOND: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts, taking into account
knowledge of the following extremes:
1. The following checks have been carried out by the Data Inspection
in relation to the LALIGA app:

1- On 06/12/2018, the LALIGA app was installed on a phone
Mobile Data Inspection.
2- According to the information shown in the Google Play Store, it is a
version dated June 8, 2018, the LALIGA app having been published by
first time on February 29, 2012.
3- Once the installation is done, it is verified that the message of
correct installation. The LALIGA app is executed, checking that the
initial screens of the application, which show the “GENERAL CONDITIONS
OF USE AND PRIVACY POLICY”, stating as responsible “National League
of Professional Football”.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

2/85

It is indicated that it is a summary, which occupies a total of four pages of the
mobile, and containing a link to "LaLiga's privacy policy"
(https://www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-cookies/).
A button “I have read it” appears, verifying that until this button is pressed, the
you can continue to run the application.

a.

4- Once the “I have read it” button is pressed, a screen with two boxes appears
to mark two acceptances:
“I have read and accept the Legal Conditions and the Privacy Policy of the
AppLALIGA <<link to the aforementioned information>>,
confirming that I am over 14 years of age, and specifically that LaLiga treats my
personal data to offer me information related to competitions
that organizes through the AppLALIGA …”

It is necessary to clarify that the content of the "related information" refers to dates,
hours and result of the matches that are held by the member clubs of the
association LA LIGA, and which is also accessible through the website www.laliga.es
and therefore, without the need to download and install the LALIGA app.

b.

“Protect your team! By clicking here, you accept that LaLiga processes your data
personal, including those obtained through the microphone of your device
mobile and geopositioning, to detect fraud in the consumption of football in
unauthorized public establishments.
5- It has been proven that progress cannot be made if the
“APPLALIGA Legal Conditions and Privacy Policy”. It has been
also verified that, if at that point you exit the application and return to
to enter, the LALIGA app shows the same screen again, which prevents continuing
with access to the application until the aforementioned conditions are accepted.
6- It is verified that the application can be accessed by checking the box
acceptance of the "Legal Conditions and the Privacy Policy of the
APPLALIGA” and not the acceptance of personal data processing
obtained through the microphone of the mobile device and geopositioning,
for the purpose of detecting fraud in the consumption of football in
unauthorized public establishments. It is accessed without accepting the treatments
of the data obtained from the microphone and the location.
7- It is verified that the application is installed and apparently in
operation on mobile phone. It is verified that the "Conditions
Legal and Privacy Policy”, are also accessible in the tab
LEGAL CONDITIONS of the application.
8 - The LALIGA app is uninstalled (previously installed on the day
06/12/2018), and is reinstalled on 06/15/2018.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

3/85

9- The LALIGA app is executed verifying that the Conditions are displayed
Legal. On this occasion, the treatment of the data obtained by the user is accepted.
microphone and geopositioning of the device.
10- It is verified that pop-up screens are additionally shown
independents requesting permission to record audio and access location on
telephone.
11- Once in the application, no icon is observed (not found) in the
application that shows the activation of the microphone or the location, or icons or
marks that reflect the authorization for its possible activation. I do not know
find information about the status of these activations within the
application options and menus.
12- The application is exited and the administration option of
Android operating system applications, verifying that they are active
the microphone and location for the LALIGA app. It is verified that they can be deactivated.

2- On 06/21/2018 an inspection is carried out at the NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
PROFESSIONAL (hereinafter THE LEAGUE). The representatives of the entity carry out the
following manifestations:

1- As reported in the press release dated 11
June 2018, with the aim of protection against fraud that occurs with
the broadcasting of football matches by public establishments that do not
hold the corresponding permits, and which represent an estimated loss of
150 million euros for Spanish football, LA LIGA has implemented a new
functionality in its official LALIGA app with the sole objective of detecting these
fraudulent exploitation.
This functionality will be used both in the days of the Official League of first and
second division and the Copa del Rey, for which establishments need
emission permit, that is, those included in the HORECA lot.
2- This new functionality for fraud detection is enabled in the
appLALIGA since last Friday, June 8, 2018, only for users of the
Android system version 6.0 for its specific management of permissions) or higher
and at the national level. This functionality uses pickups from the microphone of the
mobile device and its location.
There are about 10 million users of the LALIGA app. However, it has
enabled a limit of 50,000 users nationwide (only for Spain),
maximum number of installations with this new functionality, which they estimate
sufficient as a sample for the intended purpose. Outside of Spain it is prevented
this functionality.
This functionality has been used only during the initial days of
the playoffs of the National League, on June 9, 2018. On June 9, the
proceeded to the suspension of the functionality due to the multiple news

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

4/85

published about the LALIGA app that included strategic aspects of its
operation, with technical risk, as well as by the social alarm aroused.
3- Users are informed of the new functionality through the Conditions
General Terms of Use and Privacy Policy that are displayed when installing the
appLALIGA, requesting their acceptance. Otherwise the
appLALIGA stops its execution. A link to the Privacy Policy is included
complete LALIGA environment.
In order for the microphone and location data to be processed for the stated purpose,
the user must give his consent expressly accepting said
treatments, checking the box enabled for this purpose after reading the
General Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.
4-The LALIGA app works as follows:

c. A. When a user downloads the LALIGA app, the operating system of
your mobile device asks you, through pop-up windows, to provide
your consent so that THE LEAGUE can activate the microphone and the
device geolocation.

d. B. The LALIGA app does not have a user registration process such as
such, during which they must provide some type of name, username or
identify yourself by providing any type of data.
Yes, the IP address of the device is recorded at the time of installation
and a specific identifier assigned by the LALIGA app to the user
(LALIGA app installation identifier).
The user agent whose content depends on the manufacturer is also collected, and
which usually includes the version of the operating system.

and. C. Only if you choose to accept, the microphone will pick up binary codes of
audio fragments, with the sole purpose of being able to know if the user
You are watching football matches of competitions played by teams from
LA LIGA, but the content of the recording will never be accessed.
The location of the device is also recorded for comparison with the
location of catering establishments.

F. D. For the treatment of the captured sound, the ACR technique is used
(Automatic Content Recognition) called LA audio fingerprinting
COMPANY 1 consisting of the analysis of the intrinsic characteristics of the
audio and its filtering, and generating a binary hash that will form the fingerprint
of the audio.
This process is done entirely on the user's mobile device
through the technology of THE COMPANY 1 integrated in the AppLALIGA. The
AppLALIGA stores the fingerprint generated in the internal memory of the
user's device, discarding the audio, in such a way that it is not

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

5/85

generates any file that is stored in any directory of
device storage and that may be accessible by other
applications or the operating system, and that contains, or the audio captured by
the microphone, nor the fingerprint generated.
On the other hand, from the generated footprint it is not possible to obtain the audio
that was captured, due to the lossy encoding performed by the
hash algorithm used.
That is, the captured audio fragments are encoded in the
phone automatically through an algorithm that does not allow reversing
the process, in such a way that, once the sound capture
made by the microphone, its reversal is impossible and the audio cannot be
be obtained again.
The fingerprint obtained is sent through an https connection (encrypted) to the
company THE COMPANY 1, with whom LA LIGA has signed a contract of
provision of services dated March 23, 2018, a copy of which is in
inspection actions.
COMPANY 1 receives fingerprints from mobile devices
of users and compares them with the fingerprints generated in real time
from the audios of the broadcasts provided by LA LIGA.
COMPANY 1, in order to make an effective comparison, carries out a series
of signal treatments consisting of the transformation in frequency
of the audio signal and obtaining, on the frequency signal, a
series of characteristics of the signal on which the analysis is carried out.
comparison, using its own technology.
If it does not match, the fingerprint is deleted and is not preserved.
 The number of comparisons made is configurable to give greater
reliability.

g. E. LA LIGA has a database of public establishments

HORECA.
COMPANY 1, by virtue of the signed contract, has collaborated with the
Business Intelligence Department of LA LIGA with the personalization and
adaptation for integration with coordinate information
(Location).
The reception of the location is done on a computer server in LA
COMPANY 1, receiving the latitude and longitude via https (encryption)
(location) as well as a timestamp, the user identifier
assigned by the LALIGA app and the IP address of the device.
From the trace a CSV is generated that is sent to the department of
LA LIGA Business Intelligence for analysis.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

6/85

Since the location does not collect the height parameter, it cannot be
determine if the user is in a bar on the street or in a
private residence or dwelling located at any height in the same
portrait of the establishment.
The Business Intelligence department analyzes information from
the CSVs of both the acoustic footprints and the locations and the base
of HORECA data, determining the possible actions against the
establishments likely to be committing an act
fraudulent.
Work in the present inspection actions copy of traces and CSV
generated both for the traces generated from the audios and
for the locations.

h. F. With this procedure it can be ensured that no person or
user, neither from LA LIGA nor external to the entity, can access the
sound captures made by the microphones, but only to a few
alphanumeric codes -the fingerprint-, since the audios are transformed into
the user's own mobile device.
The only treatment carried out with these codes is their comparison with
other reference codes in order to determine the presence of a
television with a broadcast of a football match in the vicinity of the
microphone.

 

Yo.
J. H. In order to minimize the processing carried out, LA LIGA only
activate the microphone and location (using GPS positioning, in
forward geopositioning) of the mobile device during the fringes
schedules of matches in which LA LIGA teams compete.- It is necessary
clarify that this information does not appear in the informative legend that
appears in point 1.4 of the second antecedent of the initiation agreement, which
is the one that is available to users when they download and install
the application, that is, there is no reference to the moment in which
Activate the aforementioned functionalities. Specifically in the summary of the
general conditions of use and privacy policy, which are shown when
user when downloading and installing the LALIGA app, in section 3 USE
OF THE MICROPHONE and in section 4. USE OF GEOPOSITIONING
This information is not expressly stated.

Prior to the development of the new functionality of the application,
THE LEAGUE requested two legal reports (LAWYERS 2 and LAWYERS 1)
for the study of the possible implications of data protection.
Internal Privacy by Design meetings were also held.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

7/85

k.

from the Design) on the AppLALIGA that are documented, and
an analysis of the need to carry out an Impact Assessment and Analysis
of Risks.
In the implementation of the LALIGA app, we have taken into account the
considerations derived from these legal reports.- It is necessary to clarify
that in one of the requested reports it is proposed as a safeguard to
take into account in order to comply with the regulations for the protection of
data, that the user is informed of the activation and use of the aforementioned
functionalities, and yet of the actions carried out and with the
elements that appear in them, it does not follow that on the part of
THE LEAGUE have been taken into account.
LA LIGA considers that the option of capturing a signal through the
microphone is not intrusive, since as has been commented, through the
solution adopted recordings are not or cannot be accessed
conversation sounds.

I. The user can revoke their consent at any time in the
mobile device settings. Within the LALIGA app there is no
option available to the user to disable the microphone or the
geopositioning.
The LALIGA app also does not show any icon or mark indicating that the
microphone or geopositioning is active or in standby
possible activation or that indicates as a reminder that the user gave
your consent at the time.
As indicated in the Conditions, LA LIGA will periodically remind
to the user with a determined periodicity that can activate its
microphone and geopositioning, and requesting that you confirm your
consent again. – It is necessary to clarify that in the device in which
that the LALIGA app is downloaded, this information does not appear, since it shows a
summary of the conditions that this end does not include and that are referred to
a link on the www.laliga.es website that must be accessed
expressly to know that information. -
Only five requests have been received to oppose these treatments.

l.

J. Regarding the Privacy Policy published on the website of
LA LIGA (www.laliga.es), the referral made to users of the
appLALIGA is for the purposes numbered 1 and 5.

m. K. Regarding the segmentation of profiles that appears in purpose 4 of the
Privacy Policy published on the website, has not been made in
no time.

n. L. No age verification has been performed on users who

have downloaded the LALIGA app.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

8/85

either. M. The LALIGA app does not use any type of cookies.

1.
Examined the contract dated 03/23/2018 signed between LA LIGA and LA
COMPANY 1, it is verified that it establishes, in “ANNEX II. AGREEMENT OF
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA” the following:

1-The person in charge of the treatment, THE COMPANY 1, will only process the data
in accordance with the instructions of the controller, LA LIGA, the only one that
will decide on the purpose, use and data processing systems.
2- THE COMPANY 1 will not apply or use the data for a purpose other than that which appears in
said contract, nor will it communicate them to other people.
3- The security measures corresponding to a basic level are stipulated,
being the
implement them,
committing the person in charge to include in his security document a
reference to them.
4- Once the contractual provision has been fulfilled, the personal data
they must be destroyed.
5- There is a commitment to sign, before May 25, 2018, an agreement
data processing order that complies with the RGPD 2016/679.

forced treatment to

  in charge of

 

two.
It is signed on 05/24/2018 between LA LIGA and LA COMPANY 1, this
new contract of order of treatment referred to the RGPD, whose copy works in the
these inspection actions and provides, among other aspects:

1- Object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatments, as well as the type of
personal data to be processed of the users of the LALIGA app.
2- Obligation of the person in charge of processing personal data only following
documented instructions of the person in charge and exclusively when
necessary for the provision of services.
3- Conditions for the person in charge to give their prior authorization,
specific or general, to subcontracting
4- Assistance to the person in charge in the attention to the exercise of rights of the
interested parties, transferring to THE LEAGUE the applications received by COMPANY 1 to
regard.
5- Notification of personal data security violations.
6- Security measures that COMPANY 1 must comply with, described
in ANNEX I.

1)

In relation to the previous study carried out by LA LIGA:
1- Work in the inspection actions a Report prepared by LAWYERS
2, dated 07/14/2016, in which the technology used by LA is analyzed
COMPANY 1 and its adaptation to data protection regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

9/85

This report incorrectly indicates that when the LALIGA app is not
is running, there are no captures. However, during the
inspection carried out, it was revealed that the withdrawals occur
Once the LALIGA app has been installed on the mobile device (and the
consents), even if the LALIGA app is not running
spotlight. As stated above, this means that in the
device screen does not appear as “open or working” the
mentioned application – that is, in the foreground-, being able to appear on the screen
of the device the “home screen” or the “lock screen” that the user
you have arranged in the customization options, it could even appear in the
screen another application that is currently being used, and despite
Therefore, the LALIGA app could be collecting and, where appropriate, sending
information. - that is, running in the background.

2- There is also a legal report from LAWYERS 1, dated April 2018,
on the use of audio capture functionalities and location of the
appLALIGA. In the report, for both audio and video purposes,
geopositioning, a set of safeguards are proposed, including:

1. Obtain the user's consent and follow the principle of privacy by
default (privacy by default), expressly authorizing the user to
functionality.

two.

Inform the user in a simple but exhaustive way about the
characteristics of the recordings. The user must be able to wait
reasonably what is the scope of the treatment that will be carried out
cape.

3. Establish restrictions on the use of the functionality, limiting
temporary spaces and previously informing the user. For example:
when matches organized by LA LIGA are being played.

4. The LALIGA app must display notices or warnings to remind
frequent way to the user that the sensors are collecting their data
personal.

5. Periodically renew the consents.
6.

Include in the LALIGA app a specific icon by which the user can
know when LA LIGA collects audio and location.

7. Facilitate a simple system to revoke consent, proposing
include a specific box in the settings or configuration menu of the
appLALIGA.

3- Work in the inspection actions copy of documentation that reflects the
internal meetings in LA LIGA of Privacy by Design about the AppLALIGA,
maintained in March 2018. In this documentation it is recommended
anonymize the data obtained in such a way that it cannot be associated with any

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

10/85

personal data or identifier. Specifically, it is recommended not to treat or collect
unique identifiers such as IMEI, MAC address, device id, ID of
advertising, device serial number or IP address.
4- Documentation related to carrying out an analysis of the need for
carry out an Impact Assessment, in relation to the new functionality of the
appLALIGA. They are collected as measures for the treatment of risks, among
others, the following:

8. Update of the “GENERAL CONDITIONS OF USE AND POLICY

OF PRIVACY". Updated May 25, 2018.

Inclusion of independent checkboxes.

9.
10. Offer the possibility of separate consent to treat the data with

other purposes.

11. Allow the use of the LALIGA app without user registration, as

does

After examining five opposition requests received by LA LIGA, the following is verified:

two)
Next:

1- The requests focus, in particular, on how to revoke consent
for the microphone and geopositioning functionalities, that is, on how
deactivate the geolocation and microphone functions. of these requests
it could be deduced that users have not found in the LALIGA app a
procedure for the revocation of the consent they granted when
downloaded and installed the aforementioned application. -This absence of procedure for the
revocation in the application itself is recognized by the representatives of LA LIGA
in the actions carried out and proof of said non-existence is the answer that
receive the following users:
2- All users are answered indicating that they can revoke their
microphone access permission consent by accessing on your phone to:
“Settings” > “Applications” > “Permissions” > “Microphone” and deactivating said option.
This shows that the only option to revoke consent is to go
the configuration options provided by the device's operating system,
when there is a procedure at the time of giving consent
implemented ad hoc in the application itself.

THIRD: On December 12, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the NATIONAL LEAGUE OF
PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL with NIF G78069762 in accordance with the provisions of articles
63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of the
article 5.1 a) of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD and for the alleged
infringement of article 7.3 of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.1 of the aforementioned RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

11/85

FOURTH: In the aforementioned Initial Agreement it was agreed (...) TO INCORPORATE in the file
sanctioning party, for evidentiary purposes, the claim filed by the claimant and its
documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection during the investigation phase, as well as the report of
prior inspection actions. (…)
(…) THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond due to violation of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD would be the imposition of
a pecuniary fine to the claimed entity, in the amount of 200,000 euros (two hundred
thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.
THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the measure
corrective measure that may correspond due to violation of article 7.3 a) of the RGPD would be
order the claimed entity, so that within ONE MONTH proceed to the
establishment of a consent revocation procedure in the terms
indicated in article 7.3 of the RGPD (...)
FIFTH:
 
He presented a pleadings brief in which, in summary, he stated the following:

   Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement, on 01/24/2019, LA LIGA

First. - Lack of legitimation of FACUA. –
Second. – the actions take place in the context of the fight against piracy and

therefore on the basis of a legitimate interest.

The investigated entity alleges that it had great diligence and demonstrated responsibility
proactive, as I request two reports from external experts and their intention to
collaborating always with the AEPD was always present. He also named a
Data Protection Delegate despite not being obliged to do so. and were held in
takes into account the recommendations of the reports weighing the interests at stake and
establishing a calendar of improvements that would be implemented gradually.

The implementation of some recommendations was replaced by an improvement
technique of the technology used, making irreversible the audios that are
they captured Being transparent at all times and showing caution and diligence in the
compliance with the principles of legality, loyalty and transparency.

Third. – On compliance with the duty to inform ar. 13 GDPR and principle of

transparency art. 5.1 GDPR.

3.1 on the operation and the data anonymization process.
A reference is made to what was indicated in the inspection. Emphasizing that the
Consent is given twice: in the app itself and another through the system
device operation. If they have not been accepted, the functionalities are not activated,
therefore requires a double opt-in. Regarding the functionality of the microphone, it is alleged
identical terms to what was stated in the inspection, indicating that the transformation of the
audio content in a fingerprint is unintelligible, irreproducible and irreversible and,

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

12/85

does not allow to recognize the original content. It is then sent to COMPANY 1 and
compared in real time with the broadcasts of the matches. Therefore it is not possible to access
to the recordings made, the final result of the treatment being the anonymization of
audio data, so the data protection regulations would not apply
according to Recital 26.

Given the anonymization of the data, the impact on the rights and freedoms of the
user for the treatment of the data is null, and therefore does not have characteristics
that require a special adaptation of the elements of the principle of
transparency, since it is not subject to data protection regulations.

Regarding the location, LALIGA decided that the basis of the treatment would be the
express consent of the user, and it was done in two moments, as has been said
about the microphone.

The operating system of the device itself shows, by default, an icon on the
notification bar at the time of location, as is the case in many
other applications on the market that make use of the device's geolocation. In the
diligence of 06/15/2018 this extreme is appreciated, therefore, the principle of
transparency. The certificate containing the navigation record carried out on the
01/20/2019 demonstrating the activation of an icon and an attachment referring to a video
where at minute one and fifty-five seconds appears in the bar
notifications the activation of the geopositioning functionality, remaining
active during the time it is being collected.

In short, the principle of transparency has been complied with despite the fact that the
treatment does not require its own characteristics that require a special adaptation of
the elements of the aforementioned principle.

3.2 About the identification of personal data collected through the

microphone functionalities and geopositioning of the app.

It should be noted that the user agent was not linked to any personal data
of the user beyond the IP address and location, which was necessary to be able to
pair it with the device and ensure that the permissions granted by the device were applied.
user to the app. The treatment of the IP address and the user agent of the
device. The specific identifier assigned by the application to the device allows
relate the data obtained, without being able to link to a specific user.

Geolocation data is not intrusive since it does not deal with location
of the user's mobile device, but transforms said information into a
heat map, identifying the sections of the territory in which more frauds are
detected, which is then checked against the database of public establishments
HORECA. In conclusion, the data collected is anonymized and is not
are subject to data protection regulations or are adequate,
pertinent and for the fulfillment of the purpose for which they were collected.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

13/85

In order to reinforce the principle of transparency, when development allowed it,
stopped treating both the IP of the device and the user agent, notwithstanding that this
would suppose a loss of extra control of verification of the scope of the treatment.

3.3 Moment in which the consent is obtained, the fulfillment of the duty of
inform and the principle of transparency in the complementary information provided to the
interested.

3.3a). Regarding the moment in which consent is obtained, it is indicated
that LALIGA previously obtains the consent of the interested parties, and given the
treatment, it is not considered that it has special characteristics that require
an adaptation of the aforementioned principle. The interpretation of the AEPD would lead to, in each
treatment operation or activity, (see normative definition) it would have to be informed and
request again, which would be impossible in practice and hinders the normal
execution of any processing of personal data necessary to achieve the purposes
legitimate of the person in charge.

3.3 b) Compliance with the duty to inform and the principle of transparency.

Regarding the two differentiated moments:

1 When consent is given for treatment, the AEPD understands that
there are shortcomings as evidenced in the initial agreement, however, that
information is provided in the privacy policy of the app made available both
at the time of collecting consent and permanently in the
"Legal Conditions" section of the app menu, the specific publication of
the conditions of June 9, 2018, in identical terms occurs with the space
time in which the functionalities were activated.

Although it is true that both the information regarding the moment in which
functionalities such as information related to the impossibility of
pick up conversations from the environment do not appear in the basic information that constitutes
the first layer, neither in the guide for compliance with the duty to inform of the AEPD nor
in art 11.2 LOPDGG they point out aspects in that sense, that is, include information
regarding the moment in which the effective treatment of the data will take place, nor the
limitations that have been established to said treatments.

Despite this non-enforceability, LALIGA includes in the first layer the information
minimum required and also two different and independent sections in which
informs about the mentioned functionalities. ( 3. Using the microphone and 4. Using the
geopositioning)

In conclusion, they consider that they fully comply with the duty of
transparency regulated in arts. 12, 13 and 5 of the RGPD and 11.2 of the LOPDGG, as well as
the guidelines published to date by the supervisory authority in relation to the
information regarding the moment of activation of the microphone functionalities and
geopositioning.

2 when the treatment of the same is executed and the reminders on the

treatments performed.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

14/85

At the moment in which the microphone functionality is activated, no data is collected
personal information, so that said demand for information cannot be based on an obligation
any derived from compliance with the regulations. The only purpose for which
would alert is that the resources of your mobile device are being used, but not
process your personal data.

LALIGA understands that including an additional icon to all the information already provided
would be excessive, it would not provide additional guarantees for the protection of rights and
freedoms and would be invasive for users by including images on devices
that could be annoying, generating a false perception that it is being recorded
the voice and the conversations that are taking place around the device, giving rise to
to an unnecessary social alarm.

Regarding the geolocation functionality, the device shows, for
default, an icon in the notification bar at the time of capturing the
location, as stated in the video provided as document No. 3.

Periodic reminder of activation of the microphone and geopositioning of the

mobile device.

The AEPD indicates that it is not reported in the summary of the conditions that appears
at the time of download and installation about the reminder that will be made to the
users. As indicated before, there is no legal obligation in this regard. Nope
Notwithstanding the foregoing, LALIGA provides this information through the policy of
privacy of the app that is provided both at the time of installation of the application
and permanently in the "legal conditions". likewise, since
the application was only used on June 9, it could hardly have been sent
no reminder.

3.4 Regarding the relationship between the principle of loyalty and the principle of transparency of the

GDPR.

3.4.a) The effectiveness of the application in its fight against fraud is out of
any doubt, since it helps to (i) detect and prevent illegal emissions, (ii) facilitates
tracking and detection of public establishments that emit the signal
fraudulently and (iii) optimizes resources deployed by LAIGA.

3.4.b) On the added value to the users of the application with respect to the page

Web.

The app and the web have different objectives. The app seeks to generate a greater
link between the user and the entity and shows a content adapted to a
concrete need. And it shows additional content such as personalization by
favorite team, the presentation of content, the sending of notifications within the
own app, maps to guide to the stadium, and connectivity with other applications of
THE LEAGUE. In short, they are different means of communication, on the web you can
find elements that are accessed with the app, but in this there are other contents
additional.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

15/85

3.4. c) On the processing of data for a purpose other than the main one: the
app informs of the possibilities of accessing the functionalities, and if so
is accepted, with a legitimate purpose, not being mandatory the acceptance of this
treatment to continue with the full use of the app.

The processing of data for a purpose other than the main one is permitted by the
regulations as long as there is a valid basis of legitimacy and, where appropriate,
Specific and independent consents are requested for each of the
purposes if they are incompatible with each other. (considering 50 and 61 RGPD). So that
The processing to combat fraud cannot be considered unlawful because of the
fact that it is a different purpose from the main one.

In view of the foregoing, it can be concluded that the principle of
transparency and therefore is violating the principle of typicity that governs the right
sanctioning

Quarter. - on the infringement of art. 7.3 RGPD regarding the revocation of the

consents given.

The revocation procedure is not limited only to the system
operating system of the device where the app is installed, but it is also available the
email address lopd@laliga.es. However, a panel of references has been included
privacy within the app menu called "subscription center" that
allows the revocation of the consents given, as well as its new collection.
Facilitating the revocation through the marking of a box, in the same terms
than at the start. Documentation is provided proving the existence of said
process. At the time of inspection in June 2018 it was under development,
being effectively implemented during the month of September.

There is no evidence that any user has not been able to revoke their consent through

of the operating system configuration.

Fifth. - on the mitigating and aggravating circumstances of art 83.2 RGPD.
5.1 Mitigations.
It has acted diligently at all times, and if it has been the opposite,
due to an erroneous interpretation of the principles introduced by the new regulations,
but without the intention of achieving an end at the expense of the violation of the rights of the
affected. There is no budget that can carry out a sanction and there is no
have correctly appreciated in the agreement the concurrent elements in the present
case. It is mentioned that only one extenuating circumstance has been taken into account referring to the
duration of the infraction, however, there are others:

-The adoption of appropriate measures to mitigate possible damage and
damages by developing the app from the principle of privacy by design and by

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

16/85

default, self-imposed diligence and proactive responsibility. This mitigation is
corresponds to art. 83.2 c) GDPR. “Any action taken by the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment to mitigate the damages suffered by the interested parties”
-The volume of affected subjects. The 50,000 users cannot be a
large-scale number for its management of a supposed base of 10,000,000 possible
users. The figure obtained from Google Play does not allow us to infer the number of users who
have active the functionalities or the operating system that was required to be
Android 6.0 or higher. This attenuation corresponds to art. 83.2 a) GDPR.

-LALIGA has not committed any previous infraction regarding the protection of

data, this mitigating factor corresponds to art. 83.2 e) GDPR.

-LALIGA has cooperated proactively with the AEPD from the very beginning.
both through tweeter and by sending emails addressed to
instruccion@agpd.es and inspeccion@agpd.es. Likewise, during the inspection visit,
showed a collaborative attitude, with the presence of COMPANY 1 in order to provide
of maximum transparency to the procedure. This circumstance corresponds to the
art. 83.2 f) GDPR.

5.2 aggravating circumstances appreciated by the AEPD to the alleged infringement.
Regarding the provision in art. 83.2 RGPD, the AEPD considers the nature of the
violation of an essential reporting principle such as transparency. Without
However, it was complied with at all times as explained during the writing of
allegations. Similarly, this provision would not apply to the
“number of affected”, taking into account that there were a maximum of 50,000 users. The
concept of “large scale” offers orientations and WP 243 rev.01 also, to which
makes the appropriate referral where it cannot be applied to users affected by
the application

-those relating to letters b) and d) of the aforementioned precept. contrary to what is appreciated
by the AEPD, LALIGA strictly complied with the reports requested from the
law firms. The measure that was not implemented in the opinion of the AEPD was the
regarding the incorporation of an icon that reminds us of the activation of the functionality of the
microphone. Remembering in this sense that personal data is not processed, therefore
that such incorporation was not considered necessary and the Android operating system itself
emits an icon that is visible in the notification bar every time it is
activate the geo position functionality. Therefore, LA LIGA considers that the AEPD does not
has not taken into account, nor has it assessed compliance with the rest of the recommendations, nor has
have considered the other circumstances.

On the application of letter k) of the aforementioned precept:
The AEPD considers that this circumstance is applicable as an aggravating circumstance, for
when it pursues “exercising its interest in protecting its financial assets from fraud”. Nope
It can be forgotten that one of the purposes of the data processing carried out by the app
is the detection and prevention of fraud, which constitutes a legitimate interest under the
Considering 47 of the RGPD. Protect the assets of the entity, in terms of rights

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

17/85

audiovisual, results in culture and the economy actively fighting against the
scourge that is piracy.

This purpose cannot hide the fact that it will have an economic impact on the asset.
Of the entity. But the social relevance of the asset of the company must be taken into account.
entity (which exceeds the professional field of soccer, since with the income of the
entity contributes to legally established solidarity mechanisms such as (i)
the Compensation Fund of the sports entities that, disputing the competition
from professional soccer, they descend from category; (ii) for policies to promote the
professional and amateur soccer competition; (iii) for the policies of the Board of Governors
of Sports in support of the First Division of Women's Soccer, Second Division B
of the Men's National Championship and the associations of soccer players, referees,
trainers and physical trainers) and the general interest of protecting and conserving such
audiovisual rights. LALIGA does not focus its work solely on protecting
audiovisual rights, but also maintains a very proactive, collaborative and cooperative attitude
advice to the most diverse organizations and authorities at the national and
internationally, fighting against all possible fronts, including the judicial ones against
this great endemic evil that devastates the culture of the countries.

Sixth. - On the aggravating circumstances of art. 83.2 RGPD, which graduate the
sanction related to the violation of art. 7.3 of the GDPR. The AEPD considers applicable
the aggravating circumstance of art. 83.2 a) RGPD because the number of users of the application and the
time during which the form of obtaining and revoking consent remains in force.

The figure obtained from the Google Play Store does not take into account the real volume of
active users of the application, since it takes into account the downloads of the
application since 2012 and those who have been able to deactivate it before the 8th of
June 2018- date on which the new functionalities were published- . likewise,
It should also be noted that the function is only enabled for users with
Android 6.0 or higher operating system. As for the time of the infraction, you must
indicate that the "subscription center" is effectively implemented
during the month of September 2018. Therefore, the time elapsed without
been able to count on the aforementioned "Subscription Center" is limited to the months of
June, July and August, which coincides with the competition break. The application of the letter
b) referring to intentionality or negligence in the infringement. The implementation of
Subscription Center, developed since May and finally implemented in
September, cannot be considered as an aggravating circumstance, given that no
committed any offence.

Seventh. - on the sanction proposal.
In the start-up agreement there have been no other extenuating circumstances that

present in this case:

The non-existence of a profit motive; the absence of a complaint filed by
affected; the absence of previous violations; the null intentionality; the taking of
immediate measures at the time of knowing the news, temporarily suspending
the functionalities; the degree of cooperation with the AEPD. the only circumstance

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

18/85

mitigating factor included in the initiation agreement is that relating to the duration of the infraction by
when the functionalities were used on 06/09/2018, but the degree to which is not determined
that it has an impact on the sanction proposal. According to art. 76 LOPDGG, should
take into account the previous extenuating circumstances that reduce
considerably the amount of the sanction, all in accordance with art. 29
LRJSP, by virtue of which the due suitability and necessity of the
sanction to be imposed and its adequacy to the seriousness of the act constituting the infraction.
The administrative authority should especially consider the following

criteria:

a) The degree of culpability or the existence of intent, which has been

shown that there is no place.

b) The continuity or persistence of the offending conduct, which is not

for circumscribing the facts to the day 06/9/2018.

c) The nature of the damages caused, which have not existed or been

accredited.

d) Recidivism, which does not apply to this case.

LALIGA do not find objective justification in the initiation agreement about why

why it is decided to impose such an amount and not a smaller one or, for example, a warning.

For all of the above, it requests the filing of the proceedings without the imposition of

any penalty.
SIXTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 77 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, the following tests were carried out:

a) On the date of 02/07/2019, the Data Inspector was requested to carry out the following

Test:
Installation of the LALIGA application on a mobile device with an operating system

1-
Android version 6, or higher for verification purposes:
The information offered during the start of the installation. (both on the device,
how if a link to another web page is displayed)
The request for permits/consents.
The existence of a user subscription procedure.
two-
effects of checking:
The information displayed on the device screen regarding the existence of
icons or notices of the use of geolocation and use of microphone.
In case there is a procedure through registration and user, proceed to the
yourself and verify the services offered.
3-
use of the microphone and geolocation functionalities, in order to verify:

 The request for the exercise of opposition or the revocation of the consent of the

  The use of the LALIGA application in conferences organized by LA LIGA, to which

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

19/85

The procedure authorized for this purpose by LA LIGA.

a. The result was incorporated as a procedure dated 02/11/2019, which was
transcribed below, (without the corresponding screenshots
contained in the aforementioned diligence):

To record that the checks carried out on February 8, 9 and 10,
2019 on a mobile phone with Android version 8.1.0:
On February 8, 2019, the Google Play Store is accessed, the LA app is located
LIGA – Official Football App and proceed to its installation: (…)
The app is executed, verifying that when starting it for the first time the
legal conditions of use. Next, the user is asked to accept the
processing of your geopositioning data and use of the microphone for the
detection of fraud in the consumption of football in public establishments, together with
other permits, which are found without premarking. Permissions are marked, accepting:
(…)
Next, a pop-up window is displayed asking if it is allowed
to LaLiga to record audio. Allowed.
It is verified that the app has a menu called "subscription center"
which, among other facilities, allows you to cancel permits. By means of it, the
permissions to use the microphone and the location for the purpose of fraud, and
checks, through the operating system, that the corresponding permissions are
are deactivated: (...)
It is verified that in the subscription center you can access the information of
the legal conditions: (...)
The app is uninstalled and reinstalled. It is verified that the same ones do not appear
screens than the first time the app was installed but if the permissions option
microphone and location for the purpose of fraud. This time it is denied
permission and it is verified that this permission is found in the subscription center
disabled. It is also verified through the operating system of the terminal that, in
the device configuration menu, in the application configuration it states that
permissions (micro and location) have not been granted for the app: (...)
On February 9, 2019, the app is reinstalled, executed and permissions are granted
of microphone and location for the purpose of fraud: (...)
Verifying that there is a match (Atlético de Madrid – Real Madrid) broadcast by BeIN
LaLiga and LaLiga TV, at 4:15 p.m., the application is accessed at that time: (...)
Looking at the mobile screen at various times, no icon is found
indicating recording activation or location. (…)
Yes, icons with the La Liga logo can be seen, consisting of advertisements for
notifications of goals or events in the matches:

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

20/85

There is also a symbol that looks like a data update, which is displayed
periodically about every 10 seconds in the center of the screen, and that
quickly disappears. Made a video capture for the extraction of a
frame with the image of this icon, shown below: (...)
It is accessed at the time the great game of the week is broadcast (Athlétic Club – FC
Barcelona ), not meeting, looking at the mobile screen at various times,
no icon indicating recording activation or location.

b) The one provided in the allegations of LALIGA was incorporated as documentary evidence
c) The documentation was incorporated as documentary evidence on 02/20/2019
obtained from the website www.laliga.es/lfp.cuentas-anuales related to the Report
of Audit, Annual Accounts and Management Report as of June 30, 2018,
in PDF format, with the file name ccaa-lfp-2017-2018.pdf.

d) On 03/26/2019, the procedures for access to the
website of www.laliga.es regarding the privacy policy and screenshots
screen of a mobile device with Android 6.0 operating system in relation to
the notification bar and the activation of the geolocation function.

SEVENTH: On 04/08/2019, the instructor issued a Resolution Proposal,
in the sense of:

a) That the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency file
to the NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF G78069762 the
imputation of the commission of the infringement of article 7.3 RGPD, provided for in the
article 83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

b) That the director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection imposes
the NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF G78069762, of
In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 j) of the RGPD, a sanction for the
commission of an infringement of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD, provided for in article
83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD, consisting of an administrative fine, in the amount of
500,000 euros (five hundred thousand euros) in accordance with the provisions of article
83. 1, 2 and 5 of the RGPD.

c) That the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency order the
the NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF G78069762, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD for the infringement of the
article 5.1 a) of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD, which:
adapt to the principle of transparency the use of the application in the terms
indicated in this resolution, through mechanisms that reinforce the
knowledge by users of the activation of the functionalities of
microphone and location of the devices that install the application, in the
moment this occurs. All this must be done within the term
of one month.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

21/85

EIGHTH: After accessing the file and requesting an extension of the term – which was granted
by the Instructor – LALIGA presented on 05/06/2019, the allegations against the
Resolution Proposal, in which, in summary, it stated the following:
First. Of the main most relevant factual elements of the procedure
sanctioning
A chronological description of the events is made, emphasizing
mainly in that the practice of the test that was carried out in the
procedure instruction.
Second. The purpose of the function and the context in which the action takes place.

(...) This section is developed in terms similar to those described in the
allegations made to the initial agreement and the appropriate referral is made (...)
Being the purpose of LALIGA's action a legitimate and
provided, it was decided to understand that it should not be based on the interest
legitimate that is admitted as a legitimizing title of the treatment, but that it was required
the express consent of the interested party on two occasions with information
reasonable, weighted, visible and that requires an express acceptance so that the
functionality of the App can be performed.
LALIGA's actions are diligent, proactive and guarantee the protection of the
rights of citizens and should not be treated as if it were a breach
material was treated. The scope of the transparency obligation is being debated here
and the information that must be provided to the interested parties for their adequate
compliance.
At the time of the events, there was no evidence whatsoever that would allow us to know the
change of interpretation of the administration and therefore acted with diligence
that was required of him. With the motion for a resolution there is a change of level
requirement in relation to compliance with the principle of transparency.

Third. Regarding the determination of the amount of the sanction in the initial agreement and the
proposed resolution and its impact on the rights of LALIGA in the present
process.

The motion for a resolution not only fails to take into account the amount of the
sanction that could supposedly correspond for violation of article 5.1
a) of the RGPD, but proposes the imposition of a sanction that multiplies by
2.5 the amount of that.
The fact that the initial agreement establishes a sanction that "could
correspond” and then increase in the motion for a resolution deserves
certain considerations. The content of the initiation agreement with a
determination of the amount, with assessment of guilt and illegality
exceeds the content of the aforementioned agreement provided for by Royal Decree Law of 5/2018
and the LOPDGDD, in their respective articles 12.1 and 68.1. exceeds the mere
indication of the sanction that could correspond when making a determination

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

22/85

of guilt, with an assessment of mitigating and aggravating circumstances, without
by LALIGA nothing has been manifested. All this produces an absolute
defenseless, since at no time was he able to make use of his right to
power to reveal the inaccuracy of the assessment carried out by the body
sanctioning party to determine a limine the amount of the sanction that "could
correspond for violation of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD”.
To which we must add that the initial agreement is dictated by the body
competent to resolve, making substantially the scope of action of the
competent body for the investigation, which could suppose a rupture of the
principle of separation between the phase of investigation and sanction, as indicated
the art. 63.1 LPACAP.
It is not ignored that the initial agreement may be related to the provisions of the
art. 85 of the LPACAP, however, in the case in which we find ourselves,
beyond the mere indication of a pecuniary amount, which would be applicable
in cases of a fixed fine, so that it only corresponds to the
charged to debate the effective concurrence of the typical assumption. In this case,
neither is the amount fixed, nor does it have to be pecuniary, however,
in the initial agreement the type of sanction and the amount have been specified without
LALIGA has been able to claim anything in this regard.
This quantification made in the Start Agreement is conditioning the
final decision that can be adopted as far as the amount is concerned, since
is marking the limit of the sanctioning reproach that can be imposed in the
process. A development contrary to what has happened in the present case,
where the very processing of the file has become a situation of
aggravation of the defendant's situation as a result of the mere exercise
of the right of defence.
In this case, the fact that the defendant does not renounce
the processing of the sanctioning file. Thus, when changing to
rise, or more correctly indicating in peius, the sanctioning reproach, it would be
admitting that the processing of the procedure can be punished by the
administrative body.
It has not been possible to demonstrate effectively during the investigation phase that
there are additional elements not taken into account in the initial agreement. The
investigation has not generated documents or evidence or elements of conviction
different from those that were taken into account in the initial agreement. Therefore, the
maximum amount of the sanction that could be imposed should not in any case
exceed the amount that he decided to include as a "sanction that could
correspond for violation of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD”, incurring said
body, otherwise in a violation of the principle of legal certainty and
of the right to defense of this Part, by establishing a modification in peius
of the amount of the penalty.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

Quarter. On the defenselessness in the processing of the file as a result of
tests practiced outside the procedure and the rules that regulate the test.

23/85

The provisions of art. 78 LPACAP, to the extent that it has been
practiced a test without communication to the interested parties, and therefore without their
presence, thus depriving him of the possibility of explaining some issues that
they were decisive. Producing helplessness, and to this end, it is convenient to bring
collation of the Judgment of 06/30/2011 of the TS, Contentious Chamber-
Administrative, Section 7.
In this case, tests have been carried out that have been incorporated into the
administrative file and that have probably been particularly
taken into account so that the sanction proposal rises from 200,000
euros to which the Start Agreement referred to the 500,000 euros proposed
be imposed by the Instructor, without at any time: (i) having been communicated
the practice of the test, (ii) the presence of LALIGA has been allowed in the
practice of the test, (iii) the presence of its technicians has been allowed to
to assist him and so that they could contribute to the formulation of allegations
complementary.
The presence of LALIGA in the practice of the test would have allowed to highlight
manifest the obvious errors in its practice, as discussed below.
Located in this plane could either cancel the practice of the test with all
its effects, or, bring the file back to the time of commission of the offense
procedural and practice the test under the conditions determined by law. And in
the procedural moment in which we find ourselves, it is difficult to articulate the
second option.
The tests carried out and incorporated without notification and on which the
disproportionate reclassification of the proposed sanction between the agreement of
beginning and the resolution proposal, cannot produce any effect because in the
present case there has been an effective defenselessness insofar as said
test has been decisive, as stated in STC no. 14/1999 of February 22.
The test referred to should not be taken into consideration
in the resolution issued. This test is actually the only activity of
instruction of the procedure so it is reasonable to consider that the same
has founded the modification carried out to graduate the guilt of
LALIGA, thus becoming a totally decisive test in this file.
Therefore, any increase in the amount based on said evidence – which
is the only additional evidence existing in the investigation phase (without
prejudice to the error in which it has incurred, which will be analyzed later)
would be infected with said vices of nullity.

Fifth. On the probative value of the inspection diligence incorporated into the file
without the knowledge of LALIGA.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

24/85

Notwithstanding the nullity indicated, the diligence in folios 263 to 271
part of a completely wrong premise, and incomplete. First of all, the
The fact of having granted consent for the activation of the
microphone and geolocation functionalities do not automatically imply your
use. In the practiced diligence no icon appears simply because the
device used is not one of those selected by the LALIGA system of
all 50,000 sample users, and therefore is not one of the devices to which
which was accessed through the microphone and audio.
Second, the error is that it is assumed that the only
The privacy policy accessible to users is the one that appears in
the website of LALIGA as can be deduced from the diligence carried out in the
folios 351 to 361.
On folio 266 referring to the diligence carried out on February 8, 9 and 10
2016, the legal conditions of use of the app are shown and that they incorporate
a full first layer of your privacy policy, with links to
“Terms and Conditions of Use” and “Privacy Policy of the app” (page 4
of the diligence), without in said diligence contracting what was the content
of both documents at the time the investigation was carried out.
inspection. Assuming that said privacy policy was in the
same terms as in the procedure that occurred on June 21, 2018.
If these links had been accessed, it would have been known that the
privacy policy is not hosted on the website www.laliga./aviso-
legal-privacy-cookies referred to in the procedure of March 26, 2019,
otherwise
 www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-
cookies/oficial#androidprivacidad, being so that the information contained in
this last website further reinforces the guarantees of the principle of
transparency.
On 09/13/2018, a new privacy policy was developed and implemented.
privacy specifically referred to users of Android devices. (I know
attached as doc. No. 2 accreditation referring to the date of implementation of
the aforementioned privacy policy).
And in the new privacy policy (attached as doc. No. 3) it is specified in
more detailed terms than those required by art. 13 of the GDPR, the
treatments carried out. Including not only the information required by the
art. 11 of the LOPDGDD for the second layer, but additional information about,
for example, of the logic of the treatment in case of consenting to the use of the
microphone.
In the section on “purposes and basis of legitimacy for the treatment of
personal data”, stated the following:

Web

place

to the

 

 

 

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

25/85

(…) The additional purposes for which LaLiga
will treat your Personal Data, as well as the legal basis that legitimizes the
treatment for each of them (...):
ii. To detect fraud in the consumption of football in public establishments not
authorized. In case you have accepted the specific and optional box
enabled for this purpose, you consent to the access and use of the functionalities of
microphone and geopositioning of your telephone so that LaLiga knows from
which locations football is consumed and, therefore, to detect behaviors
fraudulent activities of unauthorized establishments related to the consumption of
football product. The activation of both the microphone and the
geopositioning of your mobile device, will require prior acceptance of the
Pop-up window that is displayed when you download the APP.
By activating the microphone functionality, the User is informed that
LaLiga may only capture encoded audio fragments or “fingerprints”
for the sole purpose of identifying the broadcast of an official match organized by
LaLiga, with the APP being able to access information through the microphone
only during the time slots of matches in which teams compete
of the league. Captured audio snippets are encoded on the phone itself
automatically through an algorithm that does not allow the process to be reversed,
in such a way that, once the sound capture made by the
microphone, said information becomes anonymized information being
its reversal impossible. Also, if you do not check the box enabled to
this, the user is informed that LaLiga may at no time treat
such information for this purpose.
The legal basis for the treatment of your data for the aforementioned purposes
mentioned is article 6.1.a) of the General Regulations for the Protection of
Data: the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
for one or more specific purposes. Your personal data will be
kept for these purposes until you revoke your
consent.
You have the right to withdraw your consent at any time in accordance with the
procedure described in the "User Rights" section, without this
affects the legality of the treatment based on consent prior to
his withdrawal.
In addition, a second section referring to "technical measures
specific measures implemented to protect the privacy of the user”, where
describes the characteristics of the treatment, the moments in which it
may take place and even the technique used, which excludes conservation, and
including the collection, at no time of sounds, but only of the
their encoded fingerprint.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

26/85

(…) LaLiga has implemented appropriate specific technical measures to protect
the privacy of the user if you enable the purpose of detecting consumer fraud
of soccer. These measures are detailed below:
Measures related to the use of the microphone:
- LaLiga will only activate the microphone of your mobile device during the periods
schedules of matches in which LaLiga teams compete.
- LaLiga does not access the audio fragments captured by the microphone of the
device, since these are automatically converted into fragments of
encoded audio or "fingerprints" on the device itself. LaLiga only accesses
anonymized information, which is irreversible and does not allow obtaining the information again.
audio recording.
- If this code coincides with a previous control code, LaLiga will be able to know
who is watching a certain match. If it doesn't match, the code is removed.
- We will periodically remind you that LaLiga can activate the microphone and
You will be asked to confirm your consent.
- To revoke their consent at any time, the user must
access the Subscription Center found in the APP menu or
either access the "Settings" tab of your mobile device and disable the
"Microphone" option.
The evidence on which the proposal has based most of its
argumentation suffers from defects that prevent it from being used as a means
decisive. Any assessment of a privacy policy other than the
relating to the application itself should be removed from the resolution ending
to the procedure. All of the above leads to the inescapable erroneous conclusion
who has had the motion for a resolution.

Sixth. About the scope of the treatment carried out by the LALIGA application.
The proposed resolution does not deny that the user has been informed about the
treatment of your data, but considers that the information is not enough for the
effects of the principle of transparency, art. 5.1 a) GDPR based on two issues
fundamental:
-the information in the first layer is not sufficient to guarantee the aforementioned principle and
-the right of the interested parties to be informed must be reinforced, since it is not
sufficient information provided at the time of initial data collection, it is
say, at the time the installation and first use of the application is carried out, but
that the information must be reiterated and carried out at each specific moment in
that the collection of any of the data occurs.
Such statements can be refuted because they do not respond to the reality of the treatment
carried out by the application, as can be easily contrasted through the Report

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

27/85

Expert opinion carried out by the Carlos III University of Madrid and by the undersigned.
(accompanied as doc. No. 4) which states, in summary, the following:

(i) The laliga application does not process personal data that
described in the motion for a resolution, since it does not deal with, collect or
stores the sound surrounding the user's terminal.
(ii) The only treatment of the user's IP address is the one carried out by the
balancer of the cloud computing service contracted to host the
information related to the application and the sole purposes of allowing the
interconnection between the user's device and the servers, without
store the aforementioned IP address in them.
(iii)
The only data linked to a person, as soon as it is
to single him out, which is not identifiable, is the random identifier assigned by the
service provider (THE COMPANY 1) of the LIGA (hereinafter FZID), in the
moment in which the installation of the application in the terminal of the
Username. For this reason, the treatment carried out by LALIGA is not only not
particularly intrusive, but implies the adoption of reinforced guarantees
of active responsibility in the sense provided in Chapter IV of the RGPD.

Seventh. Regarding the expert opinion issued at the request of LALIGA in relation to the
operation of the application and the processing of data by it.

The statements about the treatment carried out by the resolution proposal are
They do about three performances:
(YO)
The initial installation of the app on the device,
(II)
The inspection carried out on June 21, 2018; Y
(III)
The diligence carried out, without the knowledge of this party, on the 8th, 9th and
February 10, 2019, referred to in the sixth background of the proposal,
together with the reproduction of the privacy policy published on the website of the
league.
The affirmations, lacking evidential support, are (...) if there is treatment of
non-anonymized information, because what the microphone captures is the sound that is
happens in its field of action (which will depend on the quality of the model and
other environmental circumstances) may contain personal information
and third parties. And stopping at this first stage, there is no doubt that
produces a treatment, which includes, among other actions, the collection, registration,
organization, structuring. This possibility of collecting personal data
personal is what makes this treatment, tributary of the fulfillment of the
transparency principle. (…)
It is also stated that the treatment of the IP address and the
user identifier, assimilating it to other possible identifiers,
when I reiterate in the allegations that the user identifier (FZID) in the
treatment was different from any other identifier used for purposes of
commercial promotion or Google user ID. ?.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

28/85

In particular, the report clearly indicates that the identifier attributed to the user
by the app does not allow identification.
It also notes the only information stored in the user's terminal, which
does not include in any case, the ambient sound.
It also shows how the soundtrack collection function is
programmed in such a way that it neither collects nor registers nor organizes identifiable sounds
surrounding the terminal. Thus it is noted:
“Thus, although the APP code would have the ability to save the
sound captured from the microphone, the APP's own programming prevents
this can be done. (...) thus it can be seen, in the highlighted portion,
how to create and save a file with that information for later
process it. However, in this case that code is disabled: in
this programming language, every line of code that is between the
flags /* and */ become non-executable”
As for the only treatment actually carried out, that is, the trace of
sound concludes that the fingerprint generation process, from the audio
original, is a transformation process that can be considered, with a very high
confidence level, as irreversible.
It also analyzes the way in which the activation or deactivation of the
access to the microphone of the user's terminal, concluding that (...) it can be affirmed
that the data collection function of the microphone is activated during the broadcast of
each match (…) for a maximum of 2 hours from the start of each match.
(…) the microphone data collected by the app has a duration of 5 seconds,
that are collected from activated devices every minute and if detected in the
environment the broadcast of LALIGA matches, or every 15 minutes otherwise”
And as for the possibility of reversing the fingerprint in a specific conversation,
concludes that “the design decisions of the fraud control mechanism prevent
that LALIGA can know the content of any conversation or identify the
potential speakers.”
The presumption of veracity and correctness that the procedural regulations surround the
action of the public administration, must go bankrupt since, the report is provided
expert opinion that must be considered as a sufficient evidence principle to unnerve
said presumption of veracity of the records of the Data Inspection. That is, the
presumption of veracity has been contradicted by the report provided.

Eighth. Consequences derived from the expert report described in the previous allegation.

The treatment does not respond to those described in the proposed resolution, nor does LALIGA,
nor THE COMPANY 1, store or use in any way the IP address assigned to the
device on your internet connection during football matches. The
IP is used by the balancer of the cloud computing service provider to
allow communication between the user's device and the server to which the information is sent.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

29/85

information, without carrying out any treatment other than allowing the
bidirectional communication of information between the equipment and the server. It is neither captured nor
is not registered or stored in the app.

The only information stored on the servers will be that referring to the FZID that is
randomly assigned to each user of the app. So the LEAGUE is prevented from
reversal of the procedure, so that it will not be possible from the mere data of the FZID
of the user to know the IP associated with it and, even to a lesser extent, any other data
that allows you to make it identifiable.

The sound footprint and geolocation is only associated with the FZID, which in

no case will allow a later identification of the user.

Therefore, there is no information subject to treatment that can be considered data
of a personal nature in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 RGPD and Co. 26 RGPD.
Neither LALIGA nor COMPANY 1 have at their disposal means that allow the
identification of the specific user of the app to which a sound print refers or
geolocation, for which the aforementioned Co. 60 must apply, which excludes from the application
of the RGPD those anonymous data.

Even when denying that data processing is not considered subject to
anonymization, it would not be possible to be before personal data, but in the worst case
we would be dealing with pseudonymized data, provided for in the RGPD article.

Despite the foregoing, and in application of the privacy principles from the
design, and in order to fully guarantee the rights of the interested parties,
a series of measures that are essential in this case:

-The consent of the users would be collected, to protect the treatment in the

art. 6.1 A) GDPR.

- users are informed in a clear and simple way, not of all the ends of the
art. 13 RGPD, but even the way in which the treatment would be carried out and the
logic of this.

-and as indicated in the privacy policy, users would be periodically reminded
users of the app that it will be able to proceed to the activation of the microphone and the
geolocation during the matches, giving them the possibility of confirming their
consent.

Therefore, it is accredited with the expert opinion provided that LALIGA does not process data that

directly or indirectly identify users of the app.
Ninth. Regarding the moment in which LALIGA must inform to guarantee the
compliance with the principle of transparency.

The instructor's proposal does not deny that information be provided to
users, but it is done insufficiently, so it understands that it must be notified
each time access to the microphone and geolocation of the terminal is activated. Front
to which the following should be indicated:

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

30/85

-no rule of internal law and of the EU imposes the obligation to inform
to the affected person at each specific moment in which a treatment of
your data.

-the user is not left defenseless in the face of alleged ignorance or possible
“forgotten” about the treatment, given that he has sufficient means at his disposal,
provided not only by LALIGA, but also by the operating system of the
device, to know the permissions granted.

Co. 39 determines (...) For natural persons it must be totally clear
that data is being collected, used, consulted or otherwise processed
data concerning them, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be
treated. (...) (the emphasis is from LALIGA). As can be seen, the diction of the
recital differs from the content in the proposal, since the present tense,
actually employed in it does not refer in any case to each moment in
that the treatment occurs, but to the fact of the treatment, to which it is effectively
refers to art. 13.1 RGPD, although limiting said reference to the moment of obtaining
the data. the RGPD refers to the interested party having knowledge when the
treatment is started, but in no case does it indicate that this knowledge should be reiterated
at each time such processing takes place.

It is not possible to interpret that when the RGPD establishes that the interested party must
be informed at the time of collecting your data, this obligation must
be fulfilled at each moment in which a collection of your data is carried out.

Which would lead us to interpret that, for example, in the case of a cookie,
It would be necessary not only the informative legend at the time of installation, but also
Every time the user would access a specific web page, they should be informed of
all the treatments that imply a modification contained in the cookies that
had on the device. This reasoning, unreasonable as it may seem
example, is but a consequence of the extrapolation of the reasoning contained in the
motion for a resolution, ignoring this part because I reason what would not apply to
profiling or tracking activities, such as the cookie, if it would be for the alleged
raised in this proceeding.

It is convenient to bring up Document WP260 rev01, of the Working Group of the
art. 29 on transparency, which the proposal itself cites, and taking into account that the
treatment cycle begins at the moment in which the interested party consents that by the
app you can access the microphone and geolocation functionalities of the
mobile device. , it can be concluded that said document does not impose on the person responsible
no type of additional obligation of information subsequent to that which occurs in
the beginning of the data processing cycle, is only imposed when appropriate
notice a modification of the information already provided. What is not produced in this
course controversial.

The proposal cites Co. 60 in support of its theses, and seems to conclude that the
reference made to the additional information is not of a qualitative nature, but
temporary in that each treatment must be reported. However, that

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

31/85

interpretation is not adjusted neither to the tenor of the RGPD nor to the interpretation that the
Same does Document WP260 rev01, cited above.

In addition, the information through icons as indicated in the proposal is
subject to the establishment of a prior standardization procedure, as indicated by the
art. 12.8 of the RGPD, which attributes to the European Commission the power to adopt acts
delegates for these purposes.

In conclusion, there is no rule of law of the union, nor right
Spanish that imposes on LALIGA the obligation to inform the interested parties about the
treatment of your data at each moment in which it is going to take place. But
This information must be given at the beginning of the treatment cycle.

Also, regarding the "temporary uncertainty" indicated in the proposal, between
the installation of the app, the provision of consent and the use of the microphone, and that
bases the obligation to inform in the required terms, would lead to establishing a
differentiation between the ways of informing, depending on the proximity to a meeting
determined, which is obviously impossible from a technical point of view.
Tenth. Regarding compliance by LALIGA with the requirements of the RGPD and LOPDGDD in
related to the principle of transparency. Information by levels or layers.

The appropriate reference is made to art. 13 RGPD, to Document WP260 rev 01, to the
The AEPD's own Guide for compliance with the duty to inform, to art. 11 LOPDGDD,
to conclude that apart from the provisions contained in the aforementioned elements, neither the
RGPD, nor the LOPDGDD impose any additional obligation of information, linked or
not to each specific collection of data that could be carried out in the future.

The privacy policy accessible from the application itself, and that was not
taken into account by the AEPD in the inspection procedure on the 8th, 9th, and 10th of
February 2019, as access to it did not occur on the occasion of said diligence.

In the diligence, the information accessible to the user of the app is reproduced in the
first layer, which are referred to the general conditions, in terms of protection of
data and whose reading is necessary to be able to continue with the process of using the
enlargement and only once these conditions have been read and “following” them,
requests the user's consent under the conditions provided for in art. 4.11 GDPR.

These legal conditions mentioned, contain a link to the policy of
privacy of the application, accessible at the address www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-
cookies/oficial#androidprivacidad, accessible from the initial notice of legal conditions
of the application, and incorporates all the information required in the second layer.

In addition to said information, the measures adopted in relation to

with the use of the microphone and geolocation, specifically:

-access to these functionalities will only take place during the time slots

in which LALIGA teams compete.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

32/85

-you do not access audio fragments captured by the microphone, but the fingerprint

Sound,

-You can revoke the consent in the subscription center that is

found in the application menu.

-that the application will periodically remind you of the fact that you can
access these functionalities, so that the interested party can confirm the
consent previously given.

In short, the art. 13 RGPD and 11 LOPDGDD through the

means recognized as suitable in Document WP206 rev01.
Eleventh. On the bankruptcy of the principle of legal certainty.

The social alarm indicated in the proposal must refer only to the
presentation of five claims related to the revocation of consent that
they were served.

The assessment of the existence of an infringement is based on considerations that are not
are taken into account by the European or Spanish legislator, given that the duty to
reporting must be carried out at the beginning of the treatment cycle, as required by
the criteria of the EDPB.

It is also indicated that it is not possible, from the information offered by the application,
know when the treatment will take place. However, it is specified that the
treatment will occur at times coinciding with the holding of meetings
that the LALIGA clubs celebrate.

The proposal refers to the fact that the treatment does not take place in the
moment in which the consent was given, concluding that “it cannot be the same, nor
subject to the same formalities, the consent given at a given time to
that a person in charge collects certain data and only those data, that the
consent given so that the person in charge can at any time, collect
data that by their very nature are changing or dynamic,” which leads to
conclude that “the principle of transparency demands a reminder, mark or signal that
said consent was given and that the treatment is taking place”

Well, there is no provision in the regulations that requires that the mode of
fulfilling the duty of information differs depending on whether there is a single collection of data or
several successive Therefore, the control authority could, before two assumptions of
treatments in which similar information is provided, decide that in some it would be considered
fulfilled the principle of transparency, while in another the principle would claim the
"reinforced" compliance with the duty of information, in terms that are not foreseen
in no provision and that they be established in each case based on what
the control authority considers appropriate.

Such a conclusion must be considered contrary to the principle of security
legal, guaranteed by article 9.3 of the CE. It is not possible for the Supervisor, in the

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

33/85

framework of some actions can modify the interpretation of the legislator, on the basis
of some considerations not foreseen by the legislator,
Finally, indicate that the considerations made by the proposal are wrong, for
how much:

(i) LALIGA has adopted numerous measures of active responsibility and
application of the principles of privacy by design in order to guarantee
that the treatments suppose a minimum interference in the rights and
user freedoms:
-no sound is collected, but an acoustic trace that is impossible to revert to
Audio.
-the treatment of the IP address does not take place, only the fingerprint is treated
audio and geolocation linked to an identifier, FIZD, which is not
can link to an identifiable person.
(ii) the information is that required by the regulations and also describes the
logic of the treatment to be carried out.
(iii)
LALIGA will periodically remind the interested parties of the
characteristics of the treatment and request the renewal of your consent.
And for geolocation, contrary to what is indicated in the proposal, the
location access icon, without the need to perform any type of
screen scrolling. This was demonstrated in the pouf document provided in the
allegations made to the initial agreement, where there was an attached video,
that shows such a condition at minute 1:55 to which the appropriate reference is made.

Twelfth. On the mitigating and aggravating circumstances referred to in the
resolution proposal.

The allegations made in the initial agreement in this area are reiterated, and
considers making a number of additional claims:

Of the measures adopted to alleviate the possible damages or losses

a)
derived from the treatment and the absence of negligence.

If measures were taken in this regard, they were also adopted after the
start of the procedure another series of measures aimed at reinforcing the principle of
transparency. As it was, that the processing of data that allows
an identification of the users, who may be considered anonymous, and
in the most rigorous of assumptions, pseudonymized. It was resolved not to treat the data of
the IP address for the purposes of fraud prevention and not to collect any sound
picked up by the device's microphone, nor on the servers.
Privacy from design is also accredited through the Expert Opinion
approved and demonstrates the principle of minimization.
All the considerations made in the report of the law firm are
taken into account, except for the display of an icon referring to access to the

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

34/85

microphone, since the capture of sounds does not take place, but a trace of
sound.
The geolocation icon is displayed.
Also, all of these averages were taken before the features came back on.
be activated after the start of the 2018/2019 season, in order to fully guarantee the
user rights:
The content of the information provided in the first layer was modified, which is
essential reading to continue.
Changed the text of the consent clause.
A new specific privacy policy was developed related to the
treatment, including non-mandatory terms in art. 13 GDPR for older
transparency, such as the logic of the treatment.
A reminder process was established about the possibility of access to these
functionalities.
The possibility for the user to revoke consent was established, not only
from the phone's own operating system, but with an additional procedure.

b)

Of the volume of affected subjects.

The motion for a resolution confuses the universe of users with what is simply
a sample of them. The number of 50,000 has not been increased, but
remains constant and is also static. Activation occurs only and
exclusively with respect to the same 50,000 terminals, not varying in the celebration
of each match.
The number of users is 4,227,848 users, it affects 1.2% of the users who have been
downloaded the application, even if all of them have given their consent.

c)

The non-existence of infringing conduct on the part of LALIGA.

The accreditation of compliance with said regulations up to the present moment can
be taken into account when establishing the amount of the sanction, notwithstanding that
“normal” is not to breach, as the proposal understands.

d)

From the collaboration with the AEPD.

Once the information regarding the application has been published, and in the event of a warning
related to the possible investigation of the facts carried out on the networks
(not addressed to LALIGA), was placed at the disposal of the control authority. The
argumentation of the proposal regarding the existence of a duty to collaborate would lead to the
interpretation that the mitigating factor provided for in art. 83.2 f)
GDPR.

and)

Of the alleged seriousness of the infraction.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

35/85

The violation, which is denied, would only affect the fact that it has not been reinforced
To the extent that the AEPD considers the aforementioned information necessary to reinforce the
transparency principle. That is, it is not imputed that there is no information to comply
the principle of transparency, but deserves an addition.
LALIGA concludes requesting:

The annulment of the tests carried out ex officio.
The procedure file.
Subsidiarily, the conversion of the sanction into a warning.
Subsidiarily to the foregoing, the reduction of the sanction, without exceeding in any
case of the one established in the agreement to initiate the procedure.
The expert opinion is deemed to have been provided in accordance with art. 53.1 LCAP, and
the ratification of the report is offered in accordance with art. 335 and concordant
the LECiv,
Provisions relating to business secrecy are met.

NINETH. - Of the actions carried out, the following have been accredited

PROVEN FACTS

ONE. - On 06/08/2018 new functionalities of the LALIGA app were launched
referred to capturing audio and geolocation through mobile devices
that have the aforementioned application installed.
TWO. – On 06/15/2018 and February 8, 9 and 10, 2019, the installation of the
appLALIGA on a mobile device and once the application is installed in the section
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF USE AND PRIVACY POLICY appear in the section
3. USE OF THE MICROPHONE indicating the following:
(...) only in the event that you accept the box enabled for this purpose, as well as through the
pop-up window that appears in the APP, LaLiga will be able to activate the microphone of your
device to know if you are watching football matches. (…)
And section 4. USE OF GEOPOSITIONING, which indicates the following:
(...) only in the event that you accept the box enabled for this purpose, as well as through the
pop-up window that appears in the APP, LaLiga will be able to know your location through
of the geopositioning of your mobile device (...).
Both clauses indicate that the purpose is (...) to detect fraud in establishments
unauthorized public (…).
THREE. - Likewise, there is a link to which the information contained in the policy is sent.
of privacy of the web, regarding the moment in which the microphone is activated, is the
following (...) at times when competition matches are being played
football organized by LaLiga (...)
In the link hosted at https://www.laliga.es/lfp it is indicated that (...) It is an association
made up of all sports corporations and football clubs in

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

36/85

First and Second Division that participate in official professional competitions of
National scope (…)
FOUR. – The information referenced in the previous proven facts remains
in identical terms as of 03/26/2019.
FIVE. - On 06/15/2018 an installation test is carried out and it is verified that,
At the time of installation of the LALIGA app, pop-up screens of the
operating system requesting permission to record audio and access the location of the
telephone. Once in the application, no icon is seen (not found) on the
application that shows the activation of the microphone or the location, or icons or marks
that reflect the authorization for its possible activation. No information found
about the status of these activations within the options and menus of the
app.
SIX. - Regarding the operation of the LALIGA app in relation to the purpose of
detect fraud in unauthorized public establishments, the entity stated
during the inspection actions, among other issues, the following:
(…)This new functionality for fraud detection is enabled in the
appLALIGA since last Friday, June 8, 2018, only for system users
Android version 6.0 for its specific management of permissions) or higher and at the
national. This functionality uses pickups from the mobile device's microphone and the
location of this (...)
(…) There are about 10 million users of the LALIGA app. However, it has
enabled a limit of 50,000 users nationwide (only for Spain), number
maximum number of installations with this new functionality, which they estimate is enough to
sample for the intended purpose. Outside of Spain this functionality is prevented. (…)
In order for the microphone and location data to be processed for the stated purpose, the
The user must give their consent expressly accepting said treatments,
checking the box enabled for this purpose after reading the Conditions
General Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Yes, the IP address of the device and a
Specific identifier assigned by the LALIGA app to the user (Installation identifier
of the LALIGA app).
The user agent whose content depends on the manufacturer, and which
usually includes the version of the operating system.
either
Only if you decide to accept, the microphone will pick up binary codes of fragments of
audio, with the sole purpose of being able to know if the user is watching football matches of
competitions played by LaLiga teams, but the content will never be accessed
of the recording.
The location of the device is also recorded for comparison with the location of
catering establishments.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

37/85

 (...) With this procedure it can be ensured that no person or user, nor of LA
LIGA nor external to the entity, can access the sound recordings made by the
microphones, but only to some alphanumeric codes -the fingerprint-, since the
audios are transformed into the user's own mobile device (...)
(...) The reception of the location is done on a computer server of THE COMPANY
1, receiving by https (encryption) the latitude and longitude (location) as well as a mark
of time, the user identifier assigned by the LALIGA app and the IP address of the
device. (…)
(...) Since the location does not include the height parameter, it cannot be determined if
the user is in a bar on the street or in a private address or home
located at any height in the same vertical of the establishment. (…)
SEVEN.-. - At the time of execution of the device's microphone functionality
that involves capturing audio, no icon, mark or signal has been found, which
indicate that the microphone is being used. The entity under investigation as of
01/24/2019, has stated that it will not include any brand, sign or icon in this regard.
EIGHT. - At the time of execution of the functionality of the geolocation of the
device supposed to access the location, a geolocation icon is displayed.
NINE. - In the inspection carried out, the entity stated, among other issues, the
following (...) To capture the data (microphone and location) it is not necessary
that the LALIGA app is running in the foreground, with computer processes
running in the background (background) on the mobile device that allow the
data collection. (…)
TEN. - Through the fraud detection process carried out through the LALIGA app,
from the moment the information is captured, passing through the transformation, and
shipment to COMPANY 1 and subsequent reception, is subjected to treatment, at least the
following information: the audio that is picked up through the microphone, the IP address, a
user identifier, operating system and device model, date and time and
Location.
ELEVEN.- It appears in the documentation obtained in the previous inspection actions,
an external report to the entity, carried out prior to the start-up of
the new functionalities, where the following is recommended: (...) the establishment of
restrictions on the use of the functionality, limiting temporary spaces and
previously informing the user; display prompts or warnings to remind you of
frequent way to the user that the sensors are collecting their personal data;
Include in the application a specific icon by which the user can know in what
moments LA LIGA collects audio and location.(…)
TWELVE: Contained in the documentation obtained in the previous inspection actions,
information that reflects the internal meetings in LA LIGA of Privacy by Designa on the
AppLALIGA, maintained in March 2018. (In this documentation it is recommended
anonymize the data obtained in such a way that it cannot be associated with any data
personal or identifier. Specifically, it is recommended not to process or collect identifiers

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

38/85

such as IMEI, MAC address, device id, advertising ID, serial number of the
device or IP address).
THIRTEEN: During the inspection carried out, it was revealed that the application did not
had a process for revoking the permissions to use the functionalities
referred to the microphone and location. Facing opposition rights, or facing a
revocation of consent, the entity referred to the configuration of the operating system
on the device to disable permissions.
FOURTEEN: On February 8, 9 and 10, 2019, it was verified that the LALIGA app
has a procedure enabled to disable the use of the microphone and the
Location.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

1. Competition.

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

2. Previous Considerations.

Prior to the analysis of the applicable substantive law, it must be indicated
Regarding the allegations made by LALIGA (the entity investigated in the
successive) referring both to the lack of legitimacy of FACUA, and to the legal basis that
legitimizes the treatment that is carried out from the application (hereinafter the app), which the
This procedure is initiated ex officio, so it is irrelevant for the purposes
sought by the entity denounced, any pronouncement on the legitimacy
of that, and regarding the legal basis that legitimizes the treatment from the app, you must
It should be noted that these aspects are not analyzed in this proceeding, but rather the
compliance with the principle of transparency, so it is unnecessary to assess the
allegations of the investigated entity in this regard.

3. About the practice of the test and its challenge.

The investigated entity formulates allegations to the resolution proposal,
indicated with respect to the test practiced that there has been a violation of the
provided in article 78 sections 1 and 2 of Law 39/2015 of October 1, (LPACAP
hereinafter), which literally states the following:

1. The Administration will communicate to the interested parties, sufficiently in advance, the
start of the necessary actions to carry out the tests that have been
admitted.

2. The notification shall state the place, date and time in which the
proof, with the warning, where appropriate, that the interested party may appoint technicians

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

39/85

to be assisted

Based on this alleged violation, it understands that by not being notified,
has made him defenseless, an error of fact was incurred at the time of its practice, and that
had he been present at it, the result would have been different, being fundamental
annul the result of the same, because in addition to being the only test practiced in
investigation phase, its result is the one that supports the increase in the amount of the sanction
which was initially included in the initial agreement.

Against such statements, the following should be indicated:

The non-presence in practice of said test consisting of the installation of the
application on a mobile device and on the screenshot of what was displayed on the
itself, in no way can it be considered that defenselessness occurs, nor
violation of the guarantees of the alleged infringer as set out in
continuation:

As the investigated entity indicates, the principles of criminal law are
applicable with certain nuances to the sanctioning administrative law, since both are
fields of law, a manifestation of the ius puniendi of public power, and on the
basis of this application, it is interesting to analyze the principle of contradiction that is deduced
that the entity understands violated.

The Constitutional Court has advocated that the presumption of innocence
enshrined in article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution (CE hereinafter) requires that
in the practice of evidence, the accused is assured of the possibility of contradiction.
(SSTC 74/2004 of April 22, 131/2003, of June 30 and 76/1990 of April 26 (...) the
exercise of ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned by the
article 24.2 of the Constitution to the game of evidence and a contradictory procedure
in which their own positions can be defended (...)

For its part, the STC 56/1998 of March 16, indicates that (...) the values that
underlying the fundamental rights at stake – the presumption of innocence – require
to the evidence proceedings in the administrative order - sanctioning - are minimal
objective and subjective conditions that make its reliability possible. And if the first
seem to focus on (...) the possibility of contradiction (...) the latter allude to the
characteristics of the subject who practices them (...).

Implicitly the art. 78 LPACP recognizes the right of the accused to witness the
practice of evidence, but it is not a precept designed to inspire all means of
evidence, -since it makes no sense for documentary evidence, reports with
probative value, the written expert opinions - nor has the jurisprudence declared that those who do
are within its scope.

There are only two conflicting lines of jurisprudence regarding the
confrontations or testimonials, a minority jurisprudence that is in favor of the
presence of the accused (STC 07/31/2003; STS 07/15/2000),

 and the majority jurisprudence for which the presence and
participation of the accused in the practice of the evidence, but, to guarantee the
contradictory principle, it suffices that it is subsequently granted the possibility of
examine the result that has been obtained and to allege in this regard what in his opinion

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

40/85

right suits. For this line of jurisprudence it is not necessary, therefore, the
immediate contradiction:

- STC 56/1998 of March 16, on testimonial evidence;
- STC 3/1999 of January 25, on testimonial evidence, where the court puts the
I emphasize that the accused (...) certain testimonial evidence was made behind his back,
with which he was deprived of an immediate contradiction, it is also true that this
irregularity did not cause the accused a deprivation of the necessary means for his
defense, because the testimonies were documented in the file (...) and the
plaintiff (...) had the opportunity to urge what was convenient on such evidence (...),.

- STS July 21, 2008 appeal 5469/2004, - on the inspection

ocular in audita part-

- STS of March 18, 2004, on testimonial evidence.
- STS of May 21, 2008, on the reports issued ex officio and without
intervention of the accused: they respect the principle of contradiction if later they are
transferred to make the appropriate allegations.

In the present case, the contested evidence practiced in audita parte, consists
in downloading the application on a mobile device, and incorporation into the file
of the information displayed on the screen of this, through a document, a
diligence. It makes no sense to ensure the presence and intervention of the accused in his
realization to guarantee the contradiction through its intervention in it.

In this case, the contradiction is guaranteed by providing the accused with a copy
of the document that collects the result of said practice. In this sense it is appropriate
bring up the STS of June 9, 2003 (rec. 8463/1998) – where the accused,
is also LALIGA, and deals with the admission that the contradictory principle in the
reports with probative value provided by the Administration is satisfied in the phase of
pleadings or hearing.

He alleged – as in the present case – the violation of the principle
contradictory, since the Competition Court admitted that in an IMA report it was
incorporated into the file “with secrecy” since “those denounced were not notified and
has had a relevant influence on the sanctioning resolution” according to the sentence (…) the
reason must be dismissed (...) because such report (...) was available to the
denounced in the hearing phase before the Competition Court and were able to allege
contradictorily.

On the other hand, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly declared (for all,
Judgment 14/1999, of February 22) that the materiality of defenselessness “requires a
relevant and definitive deprivation of the powers of allegation, proof and contradiction that
unbalance the position of the accused”, indicating the Supreme Court in its Judgment
of November 16, 2006 (Rec. 1860/2004) that “for there to be defenselessness
determinant of the annulability of the act, it is necessary that the affected party has been
unable to adduce in support of their interests how many reasons of fact and of
law may deem pertinent to it”.

  From the foregoing, in no way can it be seen that it produced any type of
defenselessness to LALIGA for not having been present in the practice of the test, since
his result has been revealed to him and he has formulated the allegations that he has

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

41/85

had to good, fruit of which the present valuation is carried out.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, -and assuming that the proposed sanction, contrary to
what LALIGA indicates, is not based solely on the result of the practice of said
test, -it must be considered that its result has to be reconsidered with regard to the
display of an icon on the device screen, only for activation
of geolocation, namely:

In the documentary evidence provided in the allegations made to the agreement of
beginning, the entity stated that a video was included showing the icon of the
geolocation, to which the instructor did not have access when he indicated that in the
support presented by LALIGA, - a pen drive memory - only found
documents in PDF format, and none in video format. However, just as
alleged LALIGA and as has been verified later – the video was attached to the
document in PDF format related to a navigation record, being able to check what
claimed by the entity.

In the same sense, in the test carried out referring to the installation of the
application on February 8, 9 and 10, 2019 (folios 263 to 271) includes the
result that can be summed up in that no icon is found with respect to the
geolocation – or the microphone.

It should be noted that this test is requested ex officio by the instructor, on the
basis that the delivered external memory -pen drive – did not contain the file in format
of video, (which, as already indicated in the previous paragraph, did contain it).

Faced with the result of this, LALIGA explains that the reason why it does not appear
the aforementioned icon is because the device where the test has been carried out is not one of the
that LALIGA selects within the sample of 50,000 users.

For the above, taking into account the factual error in the practice of the test
by the instructor, and the allegations made by LALIGA regarding the
result of the evidence carried out on folios 263 to 271, it must be concluded that the
The application shows an icon related to the activation of geolocation when it is activated.
active, as stated in proven fact eight.

4. On the request for “expert” evidence, its effects and other references to the
extension privacy policy.

In the allegations made to the proposed resolution, LALIGA provides a
report-opinion of "experts" that collects considerations regarding the operation
of the application, and requests that said opinion be included in the list of evidence of the
procedure and if the instructor deems it necessary, the presence of the
authors of the report for ratification.

The right to proof is a right of legal configuration (among many
SSTC 131/2003, 96/200; 174/2008) which has various consequences, and in what here
it is intended to assert, in terms of time and form on its proposal.

The jurisprudence affirms that any proposition of proof that is not carried out
in the manner and at the time provided by the applicable regulations may be rejected
by informal or extemporaneous. Thus, for example, it is convenient to cite the STC 131/2003 of 13

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

42/85

June, which declares that (...) since it is a legal configuration right, it is
It is necessary that the test has been requested in the legally established manner and at the time
(…)

The proposition of evidence is preclusive in the procedure
administrative sanction, so that, after the moment of making it, the proposal will be
extemporaneous and its lawful dismissal for which it would not violate the fundamental right
former art. 24 CE. (This is affirmed by STC 131/2003 of June 30 and specifically by the SSTSJ of
Andalusia, considers the request for evidence time-barred when formulating allegations to the
motion for a resolution, as intended by LALIGA)

In the present case, in the Agreement to initiate the procedure, it is when
opens the term to "formulate allegations and to propose evidence". Therefore, it is not possible
admit for the purposes intended by LALIGA, the expert opinion provided together with the
allegations made to the proposed resolution or require the presence of the
authors of the opinion for its ratification.

However, to the extent that the report is incorporated into the allegations of the
entity, expressly citing paragraphs thereof, may be, -to that same extent,
object of analysis and contestation.

Secondly, on the factual elements that are accompanied in the
processing of allegations made to the resolution proposal, it is indicated with respect to the
privacy policy referred to the application, which, in the test diligence practiced
by the instructor on February 8, 9 and 10, 2019 in folios 263 to 271, no
the internet link relating to the application's Terms of Use was accessed, and that
had they accessed, the information hosted on www.laliga.es/aviso-
legal-privacy-cookies/official#androidprivacy that already existed since 09/26/2018,
collected a specific privacy policy of the application.

In view of this, it must be pointed out that in the proceedings on folios 351 to
361, dated 03/26/2019, contains the privacy policy to which the
navigation when clicking on the link established for this purpose in the Subscription Center of the
application, which seems illogical then, that on that date there is a policy of
specific privacy for the application in the link that is cited by LALIGA in its
allegations, and that, in turn, there is another in the Subscription Center established at
effect for the app. That is to say, assuming what LALIGA stated for the purposes of
purely dialectical, there were two privacy policies depending on whether you accessed
from the link hosted in the application when accepting the conditions or if it was accessed from
the Subscription Center or from the web (as is still the case on the date of
05/16/2019)

To which must be added, that it is surprising that, if indeed it existed at
that date said privacy policy of the application (09/26/2018), will not be provided in
the allegations made to the initial agreement that occur on the date of 01/24/2019.
In conclusion, there are doubts regarding the date on which the
produces the modification of the privacy policy, which the entity has not achieved
clearly establish, there is only the certainty that said privacy policy
exists at least since 05/05/2019, which is the date of its capture and printing,
that accompanies the arguments made to the motion for a resolution.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

43/85

  Therefore, the effects intended by LALIGA regarding the policy of
privacy, in this procedure they will take effect a posteriori, that is, from the
05/05/2019, validating the assessments in this regard that are made in the Proposal
Resolution of the Instructor.

Thirdly and lastly, regarding the list of evidence for the proposal for
resolution, LALIGA maintains that the only evidentiary element carried out in the
instruction that supports the increase in the amount of the sanction initially planned is
precisely the diligence of evidence that requests to cancel.

Against this, it should be noted that it was incorporated as documentary evidence,
In addition to the result of the previous inspection actions, the allegations
formulated to the initial agreement, which is where LALIGA states that it has not included (or
it follows that he is going to do it) some icon regarding the use of the microphone.

And it is these terms and their consequences (temporary and quantitative) that
support said increase in the sanctioning reproach and not so much that in the aforementioned
due diligence it is indicated that the geolocation icon is not shown, when
indeed it does show up.

5. On the concept of personal data processing and the concept of data
staff.

Article 4.1 of the RGPD determines the concept of personal data,
establishing that it considers as such (...) all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable ("the interested party"); shall be considered an identifiable natural person
any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular
by means of an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location data, an online identifier or one or more elements of the
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of said
person(…).

  Article 4.2 of the RGPD determines the concept of treatment, which considers
as such any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation,
deletion or destruction;

The investigated entity alleges regarding the existence of personal data and its
treatment, that personal data is not processed, that there is no treatment
itself and therefore is not subject to the duties of information and
transparency that are estimated by the AEPD to be insufficient or deficient in the agreement of
beginning, and which are confirmed in the proposed resolution of this procedure.

Specifically, it indicates that to the extent that the information obtained through the
microphone becomes a fingerprint on the device using the application, without
be audible, does not constitute information in the strict sense that allows it to be attributed

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

44/85

condition, among which is information concerning personal data
but, at most, it could be pseudonymized data in accordance with the
art. 4.5 GDPR.

In support of this statement, LALIGA provides an Expert Report (the Report in
hereinafter), and that without prejudice to the form and time of incorporation into the
procedure, which cause it to be treated as information annexed to the allegations, must
indicate that, it could "verify" the circumstances of the application from the date of its
performance from now on, that is, from 05/05/2019, and it must be remembered that the
The moment that this procedure analyzes is from June 8, 2018, until
minus the formulation of allegations to the initial agreement (01/24/2019) where
acknowledges that no icon is displayed or will be displayed regarding the use of the
microphone, which converts the imputed conduct into a continuing infraction.

Based on the foregoing, LALIGA's allegations focus, in summary, on the
circumstance that there is no processing of personal data, (i) or in terms of audio
which is accessed through the microphone, (ii) nor in terms of information regarding the
IP address and the identifier that is sent to the servers of THE COMPANY 1.

As a starting point, it is convenient to analyze the mechanism of operation of the
application regarding the use of the microphone and geolocation functionalities,
along with other information aggregated in the context of its fight against fraud in the
broadcasting of football matches, taking into account the manifestations of LALIGA,
both in the on-site inspection carried out, and in his allegations made, both at the
initiation of the sanctioning procedure and after the resolution proposal.

In short, it can be said that the user gives consent for the
application access the information captured by the microphone, and after its transformation in the
own device into an acoustic fingerprint or fingerprint, this along with other information
is sent to the servers of the person in charge of the treatment - THE COMPANY 1 - for the purposes
to compare said set of information, with the acoustic footprint of the emission of a
soccer game, so that if they coincide - if there is a match - the location of the
device and it can be verified, with the information offered by the geolocation, if the
The user's device is located in an establishment that broadcasts the games of
LALIGA with the corresponding license.

From the foregoing, it can be concluded that, in all this information processing,
there are at least three clearly defined phases or temporal stages: (i) the collection or
collection of information, (ii) its processing or transformation and finally its (iii)
its shipment and collation.

5.1 About the information accessed through the microphone:

The designed system used by the application inevitably requires the

Capturing ambient audio is a fundamental part, without which it would not work.

In that audio, there is no doubt that character data may be contained

personal, own and third parties, simply when a conversation is captured.

Although the report provided establishes that audio is not accessed by the
LALIGA, also reiterates on numerous occasions that what is captured is the information

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

45/85

that is obtained through the microphone, that is, the sound.

The user has given his consent so that LALIGA can treat the
information obtained through the microphone, so that, in the first stage of the set
of the process, it can be stated that if the uptake occurs during a conversation
where personal data is indicated, we will be facing a capture or collection
of personal data and, therefore, before a treatment of personal data.

In the proposed resolution of the instructor it was indicated that as a result of the
allegations made to the initial agreement where the existence of treatment was denied
of data, the following (...) Against this, it must be indicated that, if there is treatment of
non-anonymized information, because what the microphone captures is the sound that is
happens in its field of action (which will depend on the quality of the model and other
environmental circumstances) may contain own personal information and
third parties. And stopping at this first stage, there is no doubt that a
treatment, which includes, among other actions, the collection, registration, organization,
structuring. This possibility of collecting personal data is what makes
this treatment, tax compliance with the principle of transparency.

 A different question is that, subsequently, and that is what the entity affirms
investigated, the sound is converted into a fingerprint, which is what is
sends to the servers of THE COMPANY 1, for comparison. Well, in this second
This stage is when another phase of the treatment of “data
personal” captured by the microphone, which includes adaptation or modification,
extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other
form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction. Or to put it another way, the process of conversion into a fingerprint constitutes
in itself one of the phases of the global treatment, which begins to take place from the
collection of the information, regardless of the subsequent processing, and finally the
sending or communication for comparison.(...)

As can be seen, the concept of treatment encompasses the collection or
data collection, without prejudice to subsequent processes. In this case, there is no doubt
that the sound is collected, which may contain personal data, so it is
necessitates the brand being claimed. (…)

The entity states, both in the allegations made to the initial agreement
such as those made to the Motion for a Resolution, that the audio is not stored in the
device and that it is in this one where the transformation in the fingerprint takes place,
almost immediate way.

It is worth citing as an example, what is related to storage is indicated in the
allegations where an excerpt from the report provided is included indicating that (...)
“Thus, although the APP code would have the ability to save the sound in a file
captured from the microphone, the APP's own programming prevents this from being able to
carried out. (...) so you can see, in the highlighted portion, how it was created and
I kept a file with that information to later process it. Nevertheless,
in this case that code is disabled(...).

The report provided by the entity whose extracts are included in the

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

46/85

allegations made to the motion for a resolution, offer an explanation of the
operation of the application that must be understood to reflect the conditions to be
date of May 6, 2019 (and not from June 8, 2018 to that date), and
also that explain an element of great importance, we are facing a process whose
configuration obeys the will of LALIGA (like any person responsible for a
computer environment), but the accent should be placed on relevant issues such as the (i)
existence or not of storage, (ii) the moments of activation of the microphone, (iii) the
rigorous fingerprint creation procedure (including when and how long
takes time to occur and its irreversibility), (iv) the set of information that is sent to
the servers of AMAZON - referred to quantitative and qualitative aspects - and (v) the
consequences that can be extracted from the whole process, in the sense of giving
compliance with the fight against fraud in the broadcast of soccer matches for which
a specific device has been identified that is obviously carried by a user.

The user grants consent so that LALIGA can process the information
accessed through the microphone- The process that will happen on the device,
when LALIGA agrees, is that the operating system will receive a "request for
access” to the microphone by the application, and that will grant it, that is, it will allow
that the application obtains the audio that picks up the microphone of the device.

And this is where we must first stop, to determine the
existence of the need for the supplementary information in terms of transparency
claimed in this resolution.

 That, at a later time, the processing of the captured audio takes place, and
that it is done in one way or another, depends solely on the will of LALIGA,
because as can be deduced from the report itself, the computer environment is
easily modifiable by changing the programming with the determination of some values
or others. -second phase of treatment-.

On the ease and willingness to modify the values, in addition to the affirmation
that has been collected from the Report provided, serves to show that when it has
LALIGA has seen fit, has identified a specific mobile device, by
provide the navigation record of a "selected" terminal from the sample of 50,000
users, to display the image displayed on the screen for evidentiary purposes
pretended. That is, by modifying some "values" in the programming of the software,
proceeded to identify the device whose “navigation” it intended to display.

In short, that consent granted to use the information, and the
possibilities offered by computer environments with respect to their configuration, together with
other elements that will be revealed throughout this resolution,
make the icon, mark or signal demandable that they are using said
information.

Therefore, in the first phase of the treatment, in capturing the audio,
obtains information from the user's device, which may contain data of a personal nature
staff.

5.2 About the sending of information and its collation. The existence of character data
staff.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

47/85

On folio 35 of the file, which refers to the Inspection Act of the month
of June 2018, it is recognized by LALIGA that the IP address of the
user's device, along with the user identifier that the application assigns.
(also on folio 76).

The entity stated in its allegations of 01/24/2019 made to the agreement of

beginning on page 228 that:

  (…) the IP address of the device and the user agent were used for the purposes
exclusive of having a complementary control layer with the purpose of
guarantee (as far as technically possible) two limitations: a) only activated
on devices in Spain, which is deduced from the IP and, b) they were only activated on
devices with Android versions greater than 6.0 which is deduced from the user
agent(...) thus adding an extra control filter(...), It should be noted that the user
agent was not linked to any personal data of the user beyond the IP address
and location, which was necessary to be able to pair it with the device and ensure
that the permissions granted by the user to the app were applied.

Processing of the device's IP address and user agent was discontinued.
The specific identifier that the application assigns to the device allows to relate

the data obtained, without being linked to a specific user.

(...) In order to reinforce the principle of transparency, when development
allowed, both the IP of the device and the user agent were no longer treated, without prejudice to
that this would suppose an extra loss of control of verification of the scope of the
treatment. (…)

That is, it is admitted that the IP address of the user's device was treated, but
does not indicate the specific moment regarding when it was stopped being used – only
LALIGA offers explanations in the allegations made to the resolution proposal
on the date of 05/06/2019 of how the IP address is treated, as later
analyze.

To which we must add that at least until the date of 03/26/20191, it is reported
in the privacy policy hosted on the web page that is collected from the user the
IP address and a user identifier is assigned, indicating that "the codes will not be
referred to your name, but to your IP address and the specific ID assigned to you by the APP
when you register (folio 352). (The underlining is from the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data).

Even as of 05/16/2019, this statement is maintained in
https://www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-cookies/, that is, the IP address is processed
of the user's device (along with other information that is explained later).

In the Proposed Resolution of the Instructor, the following was stated:

1 Date that the indicated circumstances have and that were incorporated into the evidentiary element, notwithstanding that as of the date
of 05/16/2019, information on the collection of the user's IP address continues at https://www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-
privacy-cookies/ when referring to the operation of the application.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

48/85

(...)..in the actions carried out, it has become clear that, in the policy of
privacy of the entity's website, to which the application information is sent
indicates that the following personal data are processed:

  (…) IP address, your operating system, your browser ID, your browsing activity
navigation and other information about how they interact with our LaLiga Environment.
We collect this information as part of log files, as well as
through the use of cookies or other tracking technologies. For this purpose you
We inform that we use the Android and IOS advertising identifier to analyze
ads and users and serve ads. This may be associated with information from
personal identification or other identifiers such as device identifiers
persistent (for example, SSAID, MAC address or IMEI), or to any new identifier
of advertising. (...).

In this sense, it should be noted that, in the privacy policy hosted on the
website of the entity, in section 3.5 Purpose of the treatment, expressly indicates that
(...) the codes will not refer to your name, but to your IP address and the specific ID
that the APP assigns you when you register (...) (folio 27).

Likewise, it was revealed in the inspection carried out on the date of
06/22/2018, (hereinafter the inspection) that underwent treatment the following
information when the microphone and geolocation functionality is activated in the
application: the fingerprint resulting from the conversion of the audio, the IP address of the
device, a specific identifier that the application assigns to the user, and the user
agent , and all this was transmitted, for comparison (to the servers of THE COMPANY 1)
with another fingerprint of the broadcast of a football match in real time.

On folio 76 there is an example of a "trace" after the comparison of
information coincided, including, among others, the date, the existence of a coincidence or
match, the IP address of the user's device, a user identifier, the
operating system and its version, and the device model(regarding the content of the
user agent, the entity stated in the inspection carried out that this information informs
which varies depending on the device being used, but is mainly used to
check the version of the operating system).

 Likewise, on the same folio 76 there is an example of sending information referred to
to the geolocation, where together with the user identifier, the latitude and the
length.

All this information must be considered personal data, and its
processing, fits into the actions that in the definition of paragraph 2 of article 4
of the RGPD, are instituted in treatment.

(…)
First of all, it must be indicated that the IP address of the user's device and the
location, with the remaining associated information (folio 76) must be considered data of
personal character. And secondly, despite the fact that it is indicated that the
IP address and user agent, at least until the date of 03/26/2019 is reported in the
privacy policy hosted on the website that is collected from the user's address

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

49/85

IP and a user identifier is assigned, indicating that "the codes will not be
referred to your name, but to your IP address and the specific ID assigned to you by the APP
when you register (folio 352).

For not indicating that, in the application's Subscription Center, it happens that
when the use of microphone and geopositioning is authorized, it is indicated as
conditions of such use "included in the Privacy Policy of the App
Official of LaLiga”, which, in turn, refers to the privacy policy of the website
(folio 268). That is, again the user is told the same thing as indicated in the paragraph
above and on page 352.

In short, the reported entity states that it does not undergo treatment
the IP address and the user agent of the device, and instead, not only that information appears
in the privacy policy of the app, but also in the Subscription Center,
that did not exist at the date of the on-site inspection actions, also
refers back to that information: to the capture and processing, of the
IP address and user ID.

Based on the foregoing, it has been proven that the app processes
User information that can be categorized as personal data
staff. Therefore, the person responsible for the application, the investigated entity, is instituted in
responsible for the treatment and therefore is subject to the obligations derived from the RGPD
and its sanctioning regime. (…)
5.2.1 Arguments made to the proposed resolution.

LALIGA declares regarding the information it sends to LA servers
COMPANY 1 (which has contracted with AMAZON for hosting "in the cloud"),
Next:

(ii) The only treatment of the user's IP address is the one carried out by the
balancer of the cloud computing service contracted to host the information
related to the application and the sole purposes of allowing the interconnection between the
device of the user and the servers, without storing in them the aforementioned
IP adress.

(iii)

The only data linked to a person, insofar as it makes them stand out,
which is not identifiable, it is the random identifier assigned by the service provider
(THE COMPANY 1) of the LEAGUE (hereinafter FZID), at the time the
installation of the application on the user's terminal.

And in the annex to the Report - of May 6, 2019 - that is provided together with the

The following is indicated regarding the treatment of the IP address:

(...) When a new request arrives at the balancer, it redirects the request and the
converted to internal network traffic, which is not public. Thereafter, the source IP
it will be that of the balancer, an internal IP, and only values will be reflected in the traces
internal. Throughout the processing from the HTTP balancer there is no access to the
IPs of origin, nor are they recorded or stored in any way (...)

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

50/85

In other words, LALIGA states that, regarding the sending and comparison phase of the
information, only the acoustic fingerprint and the FZID identifier are sent with a
IP address, no longer of the user, but of the "balancer". Of having for certain those
affirmations, could take effect from your contribution to the procedure.

However, they contradict what was indicated by LALIGA both in the inspection carried out
as in the allegations made to the initial agreement. In the first, regarding the use
of the IP address of the user's device was accompanied by a trace of the information
sent once the match or coincidence was verified (folio 76) where it was stated what
following (...) an example trace after finding a match between fingerprints. The
IP and the user agent allow to control a priori and a posteriori, the requirements: SPAIN,
Android,>=6.0(...), and in the latter, indicate that the IP address used is that of the
user's device, (...) with the aim of limiting the scope of the treatment and being able to
audit, a posteriori, the operation of these controls, thus adding an extra filter of
control (...) (folio 228).

By stating that "a posteriori" it is admitted that the IP address of the device of the
user -and not of the load balancer- is the one that is object of treatment even
after verifying the collation of the sent signals. This information is also
add that of geolocation.

But, what is more, even with a date subsequent to the allegations made to the
Resolution proposal (05/16/2019), on the entity's website, follows
informing about the treatment of the IP address of the user's device.

So, as explained below, with all the information added,

We may be dealing with personal data processing.
5.2.2 On the "direct or indirect" identification of users.

At this point, we can affirm without a shadow of a doubt that the application
collects at least the IP address of the user's device, the unique identifier that is
assigned to the user's device by the application itself, the acoustic fingerprint and the
geolocation.

All this information linked to a user can be considered personal data.
personal nature, as it is suitable for identifying users “directly or indirectly”.
The investigated entity maintains that there is no identification of the user,

but at most we are facing a singularization.

Faced with this, and admitting what was alleged for mere dialectic purposes, it must be indicated
that singularization is nothing but a modality of identification. With the information that
is sent, it is possible to create an unequivocal profile of a user and that it can be
objectively differentiate from another, that is, it can be isolated and extracted
information, differentiate it from another, and attribute some consequences, (without it being necessary
know terms referring, for example, to the name, surnames, email address, Nick or
registry aliases). What is relevant is the ability to distinguish this set of
information of another, for which, we have first made an identification, without which

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

51/85

we would not have comparative terms to be able to make such a distinction, and attribute
certain effects to it: in this case, determine if the user is in a local or
establishment where football matches of teams from the National League of
Professional soccer. and after the appropriate process, find out if said establishment issues the
I find the corresponding license.

This interpretation was already endorsed by the Art.29 Working Group in its Opinion
4/2007 “On the concept of personal data2” when analyzing the term “indirectly”
as a way to carry out the identification.

Specifically, it indicated the following: (...) when we speak of "indirectly"
identified or identifiable, we are referring in general to the phenomenon of
"unique combinations", be they small or large. In cases where,
At first glance, the available identifiers do not allow a person to be singled out
determined, it can still be "identifiable", because that information combined with
other data (whether the data controller is aware of them or
no) will distinguish that person from others. This is where the Directive refers to
“one or more specific elements, characteristic of their physical, physiological,
psychological, economic, cultural or social. Some of those features are so unique
that make it possible to identify a person effortlessly (the "current Prime Minister
of Spain"), but a combination of details belonging to different categories
(age, regional origin, etc.) can also be quite conclusive in some
circumstances, especially if you have access to additional information of a certain
Type. This phenomenon has been extensively studied by statisticians, always
willing to avoid any breach of confidentiality.

 At this point, it should be noted that while identification through

name and surname is in practice the most common, this information may not be

necessary in all cases to identify a person. so it can happen
when other "identifiers" are used to single out someone. Indeed, the
computerized files of personal data usually assign a unique identifier to the
registered persons to avoid any confusion between two persons included in the
file. On the Internet, too, traffic control tools make it possible to identify
with ease the behavior of a machine and, therefore, that of the user who
find behind. Thus, the different pieces that make up the personality come together.
of the individual in order to attribute certain decisions to him. Without even requesting
name and address of the person it is possible to include it in a category, on the basis
of socioeconomic, psychological, philosophical or other criteria, and attribute
certain decisions since the individual's point of contact (a computer)
makes it unnecessary to know his identity in the strict sense. In other words, the
ability to identify a person is no longer necessarily equivalent to the ability to
be able to get to know their first and last names. (...) (emphasis is from the Agency
Spanish Data Protection)

2 https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2007/wp136_es.pdf.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

52/85

In short, and taking into account what is stated in the cited Opinion, with all the
aggregated information that the application processes, – and no matter how much the
report provided by the investigated entity makes categorical statements in the sense
contrary- we are faced with a treatment of personal data, which, together
with the exposed characteristics, is creditor of the informative complement in terms
of transparency that is demanded in the present procedure.

6. On the characteristics and context of the processing of personal data
analyzed and its relationship with the principle of transparency.
6.1 Normative determination.

It establishes article 5 of the RGPD under the heading “Principles related to the
Treatment”, in section 1 a) the following: 1. Personal data will be: a) processed
lawfully, loyally and transparently in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency"); (the underlining is from the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

The data processing that is carried out through the LALIGA application, in the
user devices, derived from the functionality of the microphone and geolocation,
violates the principle of transparency provided for in article 5.1 of the RGPD, as
exposed throughout this resolution. In support of this statement, one must turn to
the following items:

First of all, Recitals 39 and 60 of the RGPD determine the following:
(…) All processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For natural persons
it must be absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or processed
otherwise personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which such
data is or will be processed. (...) (The underlining is from the Spanish Protection Agency
of data).

And (…) The principles of fair and transparent processing require that the
interested party of the existence of the treatment operation and its purposes. The person in charge of
treatment must provide the interested party with as much additional information as necessary
to ensure fair and transparent processing, taking into account the circumstances and
 . (...) (The underlining is from
the specific context in which the personal data is processed
 
the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

As can be seen, the text of Recital 39 uses verbs in their form
present, so that at the time they are being collected, used,
consulting or treating the information captured by the microphone and the geolocation, - that
obviously it does not happen when the application is installed and the treatments are accepted in
a first moment - that additional information is necessary, such as,
for example, a warning in the form of an icon or brand, which would allow the user to know that
treatment "in real time", which would serve to complement the information received

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

53/85

initially, given the specific context in which the information is processed (Co.
60).
6.2 Allegations to the proposed resolution.

LALIGA, in its arguments made to the motion for a resolution, focuses on
debate, fundamentally, in the temporal space with respect to which the
treatment, or as it indicates, “the cycle of treatment”. To justify that the information
must be offered in the different "layers" is the one provided for in art.13 RGPD and concordant
of the LOPDGDD – which understands that it satisfies amply-, and that the moment
temporary referred to in Recital 39 of the RGPD in relation to the obligation to
transparency, is when the treatment cycle begins, that is, when it is discharged
the application and the conditions are accepted.

Likewise, it proposes in comparative terms the requirements of information and
consent in the cases of Internet users referred to the download and
installation of data storage and retrieval devices (DARD in what
hereinafter or "cookies"), indicating that it is not required that, each time you access the
information that said devices collect, the user is informed.

As a starting point, it is necessary to analyze the moment in which the
data processing in the operating system designed by LALIGA in the
app. Bearing in mind the concept of treatment provided for in art. 4.2 GDPR –
transcribed ut supra- to check if it occurs or not, and when it occurs, interested in
At this time, highlight the use of expressions such as: (...) collection, registration, (...).

Considering the operation of the application as explained by LALIGA,
such arguments must be rejected outright. There are elements in the file
that clearly indicate that the treatment does not occur at that precise moment, it is
that is, when the download occurs and the acceptance of the conditions.

Precisely as LALIGA has explained throughout the procedure, the
audio information and further processing will occur during the moments of
“broadcasting of the matches of the LALIGA teams”. That is, the "material treatment" is
occurs during data collection, and at the time of download, installation of
the application and acceptance of its conditions, only the acceptance of the
conditions.

We are not dealing with "ordinary" data processing, where, for example, a
Internet user registers in a form on a website for a certain
purpose, where obviously at that precise moment the collection of their
data, and as LALIGA indicates, it is not logical and it is excessive, to report every time
make use of the data.

But, in the present case, the treatment occurs each time it is collected
 microphone, the user's IP address, the online identifier given
 of geolocation that does not have to be the

the information of the
 
assign by application
 
same, when the application is downloaded and the conditions are accepted.

  and the
 information
 
 

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

54/85

  The concept of "treatment cycle" proposed by LALIGA in its pleadings
formulated to the motion for a resolution, if admitted, it would happen from the first
effective data collection, which obviously does not occur with the acceptance of the
conditions, since the application does not require a prior registration process for its use,
nor does it collect the audio when accepting the conditions, but when actually
the information you can obtain is useful for the purpose pursued.

Finally, indicate that regarding the comparison that LALIGA makes with the
information requirements in the use of DARD or cookies, the proposal made by the
investigated ignores a fundamental element, in that case the user does not harbor any
doubt that you are using the internet, that you are "browsing" with your terminal, and after the
information offered and consents granted, there is no doubt that it is fully
aware of the possibility that your navigation offers information that may be
used by the DARDs.

However, in the case of the LALIGA application, none of this occurs, given
that the affected party can carry their device, practically at all times, without being
making effective use of it, for example, you can carry it in your pocket, in the car,
etc., that is, in any act of the development of their private life that has nothing
to do with the use of the device. That is, "the expectation of privacy" cannot be the
same in one case as in the other. Since it is LALIGA – and not the user – who decides
when and on which devices the aforementioned functionalities must be activated.

Therefore, the arguments proposed by LALIGA in this regard must

be completely rejected.
6.3 Characteristics of the treatment.

Given the above, and in relation to the specific context and the characteristics
of the treatment that make him worthy of that adaptation and complementarity
informative, it should be made clear as a starting point, that the devices
Mobile phones (tablets and smartphones) are devices that are characterized by their multiple
functionalities, since they are widely used both as telephones, agendas,
cameras, as well as for Internet access. In addition, the possibility of installing
applications on these devices expands these functionalities practically without limit,
making it very difficult for the user to remember all the consents or permissions they have
granted in each of the installed applications, as well as their management.

Being mobile phones devices that their users are used to carrying
with them in a continuous and generalized way, the fact of the possible activation of the
microphone and the location of these devices can lead to situations of
alarm among users, who understand that they may be being watched at all
moment. This intensifies the need to provide them with additional information to
ensure transparent processing, which should include the scope of such processing
(how and when), and inform "in real time" that the microphone and the
geolocation.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

55/85

In this sense, in the previous inspection actions (as stated in
sections 2.4.G and 5.1 of the second antecedent of this resolution, to which
timely referral is made) it was learned that the application is still
running and sending information, even if it is not running in the foreground.
sic. For data capture (microphone and location) it is not necessary for the
application is running in the foreground, there are computer processes
running in the background (background) on the mobile device that allow the
data collection.

Second, as stated before,

 should be taken in
consideration that we are dealing with a treatment that does not occur immediately
after giving consent, but the collection of data, and the remaining
actions object of treatment can be carried out, with very high probability, in a
separate moment in time.

 Namely, a user downloads the application and if, for example, he has just finished
a day of the national league championship (or any other competition organized
by LA LIGA according to the information they offer), it will not be until the next day (or
until the next competition organized) and during the broadcast of the football match
that the entity wishes, when the information will be collected and sent
(that is, the moment in which the treatment will materially take place)

That lapse between the acceptance of the functionalities described and the moment in which
which the treatment actually takes place (consisting of the collection of audio,
user's IP address, unique identifier and location and its subsequent submission and that
depends on the will of LALIGA and therefore it can happen at one time or another)
makes it necessary to adapt the principle of transparency to this type of processing,
being essential to inform with certainty and transparency about when
will produce the treatment - both at the time of installation of the application, and
during the collection of information -, in particular in the most intrusive ones such as the
capture of sounds by the microphone and geolocation.

LALIGA in its arguments made to the proposed resolution, indicates that
(...)Likewise, regarding the "temporary uncertainty" indicated in the proposal, between the
installation of the app, the provision of consent and the use of the microphone, and that it bases
the obligation to report in the required terms, would lead to establishing a
differentiation between the ways of informing, depending on the proximity to a meeting
determined, which is obviously impossible from a technical point of view.(...)
Against this, it should be noted that, precisely in order not to establish a differentiation
between the ways of informing and the multiple possibilities of different spaces
between the proportion of information regarding the use of the microphone and
geolocation and the true uptake, it is necessary to be informed in the
when the capture is taking place.

Therefore, it is convenient to carry out the analysis of the information provided in the
two clearly differentiated stages: the first, when consent is given

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

56/85

for the treatment and the second, in terms of the information provided to the
affected during the execution of the treatment itself.
7. Information provided at the time of application installation.
7.1 Checks during the instruction of the procedure.
According to the instruction carried out, it has been verified that, at the time of the
installation of the application, and therefore to grant the consent of the user of the
application, the following information is provided in the CONDITIONS section
GENERAL USE AND PRIVACY POLICY:

The existence of two texts is verified, one that after checking the box
corresponding the user accepts that (...) I have read and accept the legal conditions and the
privacy policy of the App (...) being a link to the website of the entity and a
second text that after checking the corresponding box the user accepts (...)“ Doing
By clicking here, you accept that LaLiga processes your personal data, including those obtained by
through the microphone of your mobile device and geopositioning, to detect
fraud in the consumption of football in unauthorized public establishments”; (folios 9-
10).

Once the application is installed in the GENERAL CONDITIONS OF
USE AND PRIVACY POLICY appear in section 3. USE OF THE MICROPHONE that
indicates the following:
(...) only in the event that you accept the box enabled for this purpose, as well as through the
pop-up window that appears in the APP, LaLiga will be able to activate the microphone of your
device to know if you are watching football matches. (…)

And section 4. USE OF GEOPOSITIONING, which indicates the following:

(...) only in the event that you accept the box enabled for this purpose, as well as through the
pop-up window that appears in the APP, LaLiga will be able to know your location through
of the geopositioning of your mobile device (...).

Both clauses indicate that the purpose is

(...) detect fraud in

unauthorized public establishments (…).

This is the only information that, at the date of the entrance exams
during the instruction of the procedure, it showed the application when installed and in the
moment of accepting the activation of these functionalities.

Moment that, as has been reiterated during this resolution, is far from
the time with respect to when, effectively, the microphone and the
geolocation.

And not as indicated by the denounced entity that states that it was already included in the
"legal conditions" of the app menu as of June 9, 2018, since the text that
contributes in its allegations to the initial agreement, in this respect it corresponds to the
privacy policy of the website and therefore it is not information that is offered
during the provision of consent. Worse still, admitting as true that

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

57/85

affirmation, neither can it be clearly deduced when the event will actually take place.
this type of treatment.

That is why this informative complement is claimed, taking into account the
characteristics of the treatment that is analyzed, to give full effectiveness to the principle of
transparency.

Even if the user accesses the website on 03/26/2019 (pages 27 and
351 and following), the information provided therein regarding the
application, referring to the moment in which the microphone is activated, is the following (...) in the
times when organized football matches are being played
by LaLiga (...) said information is excessively ambiguous since the user of the
application cannot know a priori, which are the competitions organized by the
entity, especially considering that we are dealing with an entity that is defined in
its website3 as (...) a sports association made up of all the societies
anonymous sports companies and First and Second Division soccer clubs that participate in
national professional official competitions.(...).

Which is a great difficulty, even makes it impossible for a normal user
can know without a shadow of a doubt when the functions described are being used and
when your personal information is being processed.

In short, when the tests described were carried out, it was not explained, with
the clarity and transparency required by a treatment as intrusive as the one that has been
described, when the information captured by the microphone and the location of the
device. Hence, informative complementarity is claimed.

The investigated entity alleges in its defense that including this information is not
required neither in article 13 of the RGPD nor in article 11.2 LOPDGDD, nor in the guides
published by the AEPD and therefore their implementation cannot be required.

Faced with this, it is necessary to make the appropriate reference to the Considerations of the
RGPD, indicated above and to the formulas proposed by the opinions of the Group
of Labor of article 29, which have been assumed by the European Committee for the Protection of
Data and that were indicated in the Initiation Agreement, since they answer questions about the
why the information claimed in this procedure must be included (i) for the
natural persons it must be made absolutely clear that they are being collected, used,
consulting or treating, for what purpose said complement should be introduced
informative (ii) the person in charge of the treatment must provide the interested party with
supplementary information is necessary to ensure fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which
process personal data, and how it can be done (iii) Another possible way
of providing transparency information is through the use of “push” notices and
"pull". Push notices involve the provision of information notices of
ad hoc transparency, while “pull” notices facilitate access to information
through methods such as permission management, privacy dashboards, and

3 https://www.laliga.es/lfp

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

58/85

"learn more" tutorials. These allow for a more transparent experience
user-centric for the stakeholder.
7.2 Allegations to the proposed resolution.

In the arguments made to the motion for a resolution on the date of

05/06/2019, LALIGA indicates that:

There is a specific privacy policy of the application that is accessed
through the links "Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy of the app"
that was implemented from 09/13/2018, and several
internal emails.

Against this, it should be noted that as explained in FD4, there are elements
in the file that make question the true date of modification and
implementation, and even admitting for purely dialectical purposes the existence of this
the date indicated, the proceedings carried out would then show that
two different privacy policies would coexist, depending on where you access the
the same (informing in one that the IP address of the user's device is not treated and
in the other the opposite). Therefore, what there are no uncertainties about is that from the
date of 05/05/2019 there is said privacy policy, since the
checks for these purposes.

In the link www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-cookies/ there are submenus, one
of them referred to the official application at www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-
cookies/official that is the same one to which navigation is redirected when accessing
through the application, which adds the #androidprivacidad field to the URL, which is what
determines that the scroll of the page shows the precise information of users with
ANDROID devices.

Beforehand, it should be noted that, at present, the information hosted
At www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-cookies/ there is information regarding the
application where it continues to state that the user's IP address is collected.

  From the privacy policy hosted at www.laliga.es/aviso-legal-privacidad-

cookies/official the following should be highlighted:

In case you have accepted the specific and optional box enabled for this purpose,
you consent to access and use of the microphone features and
geopositioning of your phone so that LaLiga knows from which locations
consume football and therefore, to detect fraudulent behavior of establishments not
authorizations related to the consumption of the football product. The activation of both
microphone as well as the geopositioning of your mobile device, it will require prior
acceptance of the pop-up window that is shown when you download the APP.

By activating the microphone functionality, the User is informed that
LaLiga may only capture encoded audio fragments or “fingerprints” with the
sole purpose of identifying the broadcast of an official match organized by LaLiga,
the APP being able to access information through the microphone only during the

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

59/85

time slots of matches in which LaLiga teams compete. The fragments of
Captured audio is automatically encoded on the phone itself using a
algorithm that does not allow the process to be reversed, in such a way that, once the
sound capture made by the microphone, said information is converted into
anonymized information being impossible to revert

(…) Measures related to the use of the microphone:
- We will periodically remind you that LaLiga can activate the microphone and

will ask you to confirm your
 

 consent. (
 

 …)

(…) Measures related to the use of geolocation:
- LaLiga will only access your location during the match time slots in

those who compete in LaLiga teams.

- We will periodically remind you that LaLiga can access your location and

You will be asked to confirm your consent. (…)

From reading it, it can be deduced that it does not clearly explain the
operation of the application, as LALIGA has shown in the
present procedure. Indicates that “you can only capture fragments of audios
encrypted”, when the truth is that he first captures the audio and then, as he affirms,
encodes, as it is clearly observed one thing and the other are not the same.

The temporal uncertainty regarding access is maintained in identical terms
to the information collected through the microphone “during the time slots of matches
in which LaLiga teams compete”. Whether by the organization itself
national league championship, either due to the circumstance related to the election of the
specific matches in which it is decided to activate the control, the truth is that this uncertainty
can only be reduced with the display of a sign or icon, when
the information obtained through the microphone is actually being accessed
of the device, “in real time”.

And finally regarding the confirmation of the consents indicated in
the aforementioned policy, indicate that LALIGA, taking into account the time since they are used
the indicated functionalities 06/08/2018 has had the opportunity to allege and prove, the
existence of this and has contributed nothing in this regard, that although it does not replace the existence of
a mark in "real time", can limit that temporary space between the original
acceptance of the conditions and when the information obtained is actually used.
through the microphone.

In conclusion, the existence of an ad hoc application privacy policy
for Android OS version, it does not cover the gaps in terms of
transparency that are claimed for it, which makes unnecessary the icon that
is claimed. In other words, no matter how much the provisions of the
articles 13 RGPD and 11 LOPDGDD, the system itself designed by LALIGA that provides the
treatment of some special characteristics, will not prevent the need for
reminder, mark or signal that is claimed in this instance.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

60/85

As a closing argument, indicate that LALIGA repeatedly cites, both
during the previous inspection actions, in the allegations to the agreement of initiation and
even in those made to the motion for a resolution, that the operation is similar
provided by the SHAZAM4 app - which picks up sound through the microphone and sends it
to a server for comparison- , ignoring a fundamental difference and that if it occurs in the
LALIGA application, this procedure would not make sense: in that application,
it is the user himself - and not the service provider - who decides to activate the
microphone for audio pickup to occur, be encoded, sent, and
collate, -if that circumstance were to occur, in the present case it would not be necessary to
icon sign-.

However, none of that happens here, but it is LALIGA who decides when
start the process and on which users, with prior information with the
uncertainties that have become apparent.
8. Information provided during the execution of the application.

From the practiced instruction it is deduced that the user is not informed, in the
time of activation of the use of the microphone from the start of the use of the application in
the month of June 2018 to the present.
8.1 Regarding the use of the microphone.
It is the investigated entity that openly admits in its allegations that it does not include
any type of information in that sense, indicating the following (...) after carrying out a
weighing judgment between the purposes of the treatment pursued and the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties, understands that the inclusion of an additional icon to the entire
information already provided would be excessive, it would not provide additional guarantees to the
protection of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties and would be invasive for the
users by including on their device elements and images that could be considered
annoying, hinder the use of the App and generate a false perception that it is being
recording the voice and the conversations that are taking place around the device,
giving rise to an unnecessary social alarm (...)

Faced with this, it is necessary to refer to what is already indicated in the Agreement to Start the
this procedure where in its section III.4 the following was indicated, (...) The
treatment that is carried out by the LALIGA app, requires an adaptation of the
principle of transparency, taking into account the special characteristics of which have been
indicated, the result of which is the adoption of measures that guarantee the full
knowledge of the user that the described functionalities have been activated and, therefore,
therefore, that the treatment in question is being produced or carried out. Is essential
that the method or methods chosen to provide the information are appropriate
for the specific circumstances, therefore, the quality, accessibility and understandability of
information is only as relevant as the actual content of the information on
transparency, which must be provided to stakeholders.

4 https://www.shazam.com/es

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

61/85

In this sense, it is especially illuminating, in relation to the case
analyzed, what is included in the document Opinion GT260, of November 29, 2017
regarding Guidelines on Transparency under Regulation 2016/679
elaborated by the Working Group of Article 29 –and ratified by the European Committee of
Data Protection-, indicates in its section 39 the following (...) Another possible way of
providing transparency information is through the use of “push” and “pull” notices.
Push notices involve the provision of ad transparency information notices.
hoc, while "pull" notices facilitate access to information through methods
such as permission management, privacy dashboards, and "more" tutorials.
information". These allow for a more user-focused transparency experience.
user for the interested party. (...) (The underlining is from the Spanish Protection Agency
of data).

   It should also be noted that the aforementioned document in section 43 indicates what
following (…) Recital 78 refers to data controllers who
apply measures that meet data protection requirements by design and by
defect, including measures consisting of transparency with respect to the functions
and the processing of personal data (...) (The underlining is from the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection).

Finally, it should be noted that even the legal reports provided by
LALIGA (requested from two independent third parties for the analysis of adaptation to the
privacy and data protection regulations) referenced in section 5.2 of the
second antecedent of this initial agreement, expressly indicate as
safeguards to be taken into account, the establishment of restrictions on the use of the
functionality, delimiting temporary spaces and previously informing the user;
display notices or warnings to frequently remind the user that
sensors are collecting your personal data; Include an icon in the application
by which the user can know when LA LIGA collects audio and
Location.(…)

The investigated entity states in its allegations made to the settlement agreement
start that has made a weighing judgment and given the result or conclusion to which
has arrived, it is observed that it has not taken into account the criteria of the regulatory body,
that is clearly deduced from the beginning of this sanctioning procedure, nor the
opinions of the Article 29 Working Group indicated in the opening agreement, nor
the own reports of the entities that she herself has commissioned on the
safeguards to consider when using the microphone functionality of the
devices, mainly emphasizing the difficulty of use that the
addition of additional information, in addition to generating a false perception that
is recording the voice and conversations, ultimately indicating not wanting to generate
an unnecessary social alarm, all this in the face of compliance with the principle of
transparency in the processing of personal data collected by the RGPD.

Given these statements, it should be noted in the first place that the inclusion that
the microphone has been activated, or in other words, that it is capturing audio that is

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

62/85

occurs around the device, by means of a warning or icon, it would not generate a false
perception that the voice and conversations are being recorded, because precisely
that is what happens when the microphone is activated (the audio is captured and therefore
both voice and conversations that are taking place), the perception that
users would form, it would not be false at all, but very likely, and in
second term, it should be remembered that as a "social alarm", it generated the
first weeks of the month of June 2018, when jumping to the media the
news that the app captured audio and without knowing how or for what purpose.
Maintain the application in identical conditions that, on those dates, did not
would correct that perception, but rather the opposite.

For this reason, the exercise of transparency demanded in this instance, far from
increase this public perception of permanent scrutiny of privacy,
would clear any doubt in this regard and would put in the hands of users the freedom to
choose if they really grant their approval for the capture of the audio.

Be that as it may, in the present case subjective perceptions of
one and the other (correct or infused), but the strict compliance with the RGPD and its
principles, so the information gaps revealed, both when installing the
application, as during the execution of the functionality, in addition to being corrected,
must complete with the display of an icon or sign, so that the user knows
that audio is being captured with your device, in accordance with article 5 of the RGPD and
the interpretation made by Considering 60, and the opinion of the Working Group of the
article 29 assumed in its entirety by the European Committee for Data Protection, all
they partially transcribed ut supra.

In the allegations made to the proposed resolution, LALIGA reiterates
in the non-enforceability by any European or national standard, in the way in which it must be
report for the analyzed treatment, indicating that it amply complies with the provisions
in article 13 of the RGPD and 11 of the LOPDGDD. Against this, it should be noted that no
is analyzing the adequacy of the information offered regarding the precepts
indicated, since it is observed that they have been complied with, but that the type
of treatment with the notes of intrusiveness and temporal (and physical) uncertainty regarding
of the place where the user is), revealed, claim that
introduce elements that reinforce the principle of transparency.

In arguments made to the motion for a resolution, an attempt is made to explain the
moments of activation of the microphone, and therefore of data collection (...) the function
microphone data collection is activated during the broadcast of each game of
First Division, becoming active for a maximum of 2 hours from the
start of each match. In addition, the microphone data collected by the APP has
a duration of 5 seconds, which are collected from activated devices every minute if
the broadcast of LALIGA matches is detected in the environment, or every 15 minutes in case
contrary (...)

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

63/85

Taking this forecast into account, it cannot be concluded, as indicated by LALIGA,
that the display of an icon referring to the use of the microphone hinders or annoys the user
with excessive icons on the screen, given the length of time of its use.

In addition, precisely the sample of the same would nullify any alarm
relative to the fact that users may be permanently monitored, since
thus, they would know at what time and at what not, the information is being captured
via audio, so they could decide when to withdraw permission from the app
to access such information.
8.2 Regarding the use of geolocation.

In this regard, the entity states that (...) the operating system of the
device shows, by default, an icon in the notification bar at the time of
location capture (...) the notification bar is always visible,
as shown in the Agency's own Diligence dated June 15, which
work in the file, as well as in the video provided by this party to this document
of allegations as document No. 3. Both pieces of evidence reflect that, in the bar of
device notifications, visible at all times during activation of the
functionality of the app, a geopositioning icon is displayed which appears
punctually during the broadcast of the matches (...)

The Instructor's proposed resolution indicated in this regard what
following (...): In view of this, it should be noted, first of all, that in the proceeding
on folios 6 to 11, no such indication is shown. In document No. 3, relating to the Act of
the attached screenshot, no icon is displayed either
geolocation, and regarding the video file referred to, indicate that no
found on the USB stick attached to the pleadings, but simply
various documents in pdf format.

In this sense, and to verify the assertions of the investigated entity,
carried out tests on the dates of February 8, 9 and 10, 2019, in order to verify if there was
said information on the screen of the devices that use the application, whose
result works on folios 263 to 271, and the following were verified, among others:
ends:

(…) Verifying that there is a match (Atlético de Madrid – Real Madrid) broadcast

by BeIN LaLiga and LaLiga TV, at 4:15 p.m., the application is accessed at that time(…)

It is not found, looking at the mobile screen at various times, any

icon indicating recording activation or location.

Yes, icons with the La Liga logo can be seen, consisting of advertisements for

notifications of goals or events in the matches (...)

There is also a symbol that looks like a data update, which is
periodically displays approximately every 10 seconds in the center of the screen,
and it disappears quickly. Made a video capture for the extraction of
A frame with the image of this icon is shown below:

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

64/85

It is accessed at the time the great game of the week is broadcast (Athletic Club
– FC Barcelona), not meeting, observing at various times the screen of the
mobile, no icon that indicates activation of recording or location.(...)

In short, contrary to what was stated by the entity, no

no icon showing the activation of the geolocation function.

After the allegations made to the proposed resolution by LALIGA, it has been
verified that the PDF file was improperly accessed, and that if
contained the video of the navigation with the activation of the geolocation, and
Regarding the content of the evidence procedure, it was explained by LALIGA that the reason why
which did not show any information on the device where the tests were done,
it is because it was not one of those selected within the sample of 50,000 users.
For all these reasons, the allegations in this regard are upheld and it is concluded that
displays a mark, signal or icon, in real time, that the information is being accessed
geolocation. Circumstance that has been assessed when qualifying the appropriate sanction
impose and that modifies the meaning of the proposed resolution of the instructor in what
regarding the amount of the fine.

9. On compliance with the principle of transparency.

As has been indicated before, we are dealing with data processing that requires
special reinforcement of the principle of transparency and in view of the instruction carried out,
It follows that the entity has done nothing to effectively comply with the
regarding the use of the information accessed through the microphone of the
device.

The information that gives content to compliance with the principle of transparency
in this type of treatment it must be concrete and decisive; should not be formulated
abstract or ambivalent terms or give rise to different interpretations, such as
happens in the present case in relation to the type of data processing that is carried out
out through the app.
9.1 Characteristics of the analyzed system and lack of transparency.

The lack of information in terms of transparency: the information that is
provides the user of the application, both at the beginning - at the time of download,
installation and acceptance of the conditions - and above all during the execution of the
treatment (at that time it can be stated that there is no information), it is shown
insufficient in relation to the type of treatment that is carried out, in relation to,

(Yo)

(iii)

The temporary space produced between the moment in which the
consent – with the information that is provided that contains
uncertainties- and the one that actually produces the data collection.

The moments of activation of the aforementioned functionality. Considering the
information offered when accepting the conditions (either in the first layer or in

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

65/85

(iii)

second layer), referring to activation "in LALIGA team matches".
And the moments of activation of the aforementioned functionality when they can
occur in the development of the most exclusive areas of the user than anything
have to do with the initial object of the functionalities, which according to
LALIGA is limited to "protecting your team" (soccer team) and
“Detecting fraud in the consumption of football in public establishments is not
authorized”. Precisely because of the random element about when
will produce the activation -which does not depend on the user, nor does it have a priori elements
to know when it will occur-, and its relationship with the development of the
private life of the user, it is necessary that he knows in all
moment, when the device's microphone is being used. As
may take place without your knowledge in a strictly private or
family and collect personal information from someone who has given consent
with the characteristics pointed out, and from third parties, which are obviously unrelated to
the purposes pursued by LA LIGA.
In relation to the operation and effectiveness of the application with the
in order to prevent fraud, at the expense of user privacy,
that, if finally there is no coincidence between the compared codes
(the one that is sent from the device with which it is available on the servers
of the entity), it is something that only happens and can be verified a posteriori,
that is, when the processing of the data has already taken place, or even
having existed coincidence, it can occur with respect to the effectiveness of the
geolocation system, this may not fulfill its purpose because the
device may be at another altitude that the system is not capable of
discriminate. It may happen that the device is in a building with several
plants, capturing information in the private address of a third party, and that
associate the information processed with that of a place where it is not located. The
modifications introduced by the entity regarding the creation of “a
heat map” also does not solve the indicated random element. Definitely,
the treatment carried out may not serve the purpose intended by LALIGA and by
both occur outside of it with the expectation that it will work, with a
high cost for user privacy.

In short, the owner of the personal data being processed does not have
available a simple mechanism or provided by the person in charge that
let you know without any doubt that the LALIGA application is
accessing the information that is collected by the microphone of your device.
As the user has not been informed of the possibility of capturing in the second
flat.

Nor can the informative legend used with
character prior to marking the box for the provision of consent, since
it is not possible to interpret the temporal or physical space that can be
deprived of when the treatment is going to be executed, not even going to the policy
of privacy hosted on the main web page (nor at the date of the inspection carried out

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

66/85

or if you want at present folio 351 and following), nor even to the web page where
collects the specific privacy policy for users of Android operating systems
which is proven to exist as of 05/05/2019.

That is why this guarantee is necessary in favor of users, in terms of

transparency that is claimed in this sanctioning procedure.
9.2 Violation of the principle of transparency.
Therefore, it has been proven that the data processing that is carried out through
the LALIGA application, on user devices, derived from the functionality of the
microphone, violate the principle of transparency provided for in article 5.1 of the RGPD, in
relation to the special characteristics of this treatment, which can be summarized in
the following:

(i) Certain treatments take place, such as capturing audio,
geolocation, user IP address, unique identifier, fingerprint creation and sending
digital, at a time other than the expression of consent, and given the
characteristics of these treatments (information provided at the time of the
installation, means used, level of intrusiveness of these, temporary circumstances
risks of the user's private life, etc.,., all of them analyzed throughout the
this resolution) it is necessary a reminder, mark or signal that indicates without
no doubt to the user, they are actually taking place. well the
material treatment does not occur when a user downloads and installs the application –
where the conditions are accepted – but it will come later.

This reinforcement or reminder of the consent given at the time of
downloading the application is due to the circumstance that it cannot be the same, nor subject
to the same formalities, the consent given at a given moment so that a
responsible collects certain data and only those data, that the consent
lent so that the person in charge can at any time, collect data that by
their own nature are changing or dynamic, as for example happens with those of
geolocation (it is very likely that the location will change with respect to the
at the time consent is given, at the time the data is collected),
that in themselves are not "a datum" but a category of data, being alien to this
circumstance the affected party, in such a way that the principle of transparency demands
a reminder, mark or signal that treatment is occurring at that
precise moment in time and physical space that occurs when the
mentioned functionalities.

(ii) It does not appear in the informative legend that is shown in the installation of the
application on the mobile device, the specific moment in which the
functionalities, nor can it be inferred from the privacy policy hosted on the
main web page.

(iii) There is no icon or other signal indicating that the functions are being used.

mentioned functionalities

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

67/85

(iv) there is a possibility that the application runs in the background and therefore
both without the user's knowledge. (as stated in sections 2.4.G and 5.1 of the
second antecedent of this resolution, to which the appropriate reference is made).
For all these reasons, the analyzed treatment calls for a special reinforcement of the
of transparency - in relation to the proportionality of the treatment - in all its
manifestations and with adequate guarantees in relation to the type of treatment, which
the instruction carried out cannot be attributed to the investigated entity, which constitutes
the violation of the provisions of article 5.1 of the RGPD.

10. Revocation of consent. Article 7.3 GDPR.
Regarding the violation of article 7.3 of the RGPD, referring to the revocation of the
consent, it must be indicated that in the agreement to initiate this procedure
it stated the following:
(...) IV.1 Establishes article 6 of the RGPD under the heading "Legality of processing", which
following: 1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or several specific purposes (...)

It establishes article 7 of the RGPD under the heading “Conditions for the

consent ", in section 3, the following:

The interested party will have the right to withdraw their consent at any time.
The withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party will be
informed of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

In the present case, it has turned out that through the LALIGA app, a
Consent provision procedure by marking a box
that appears in a pop-up window or dialog box of the application itself. (Without
prejudice that once accepted, the device through the system functions
request individually the permission to record audio and to access
device location).

On the contrary, the procedure for the revocation of consent is
circumscribes the use of the functionalities of the operating system for the
Application permission settings. That is, there is no such procedure.
added to revoke the consent as well as the one arranged to grant it.

In short, the LALIGA app uses a procedure designed and added by the
entity, to the functionalities of the operating system, through the marking of a
box and yet lacks any procedure to revoke consent in
the same terms. The reference to the device settings that
makes LALIGA in the communications provided during the previous actions of

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

68/85

inspection, since it is said entity that decides to implement said procedure ad
hoc and to which it is also attributable, the absence of the same type of procedure for
revoke consent.
IV.2 In this regard, it is especially illuminating, in relation to the case analyzed, that
collected in the document Opinion GT259, of November 28, 2017 regarding
Guidelines on Consent developed by the Article 29 Working Group, –and
ratified by the European Committee for Data Protection - which indicates the following when
consent is obtained electronically with a simple click, swipe or
keystroke, data subjects should, in practice, be able to revoke that
consent just as easily. When consent is obtained
by using a service-specific user interface (for example, via
of a website, an application, an account login, the interface of a
IoT device or by email), there is no doubt that a data subject must
be able to revoke consent through the same electronic interface, since the change to
another interface for the sole reason of withdrawing consent will require effort
improper.(…) (…)The requirement of an easy revocation is described as an aspect
necessary of the valid consent in the RGPD. If the right of revocation does not meet
with the requirements of the RGPD, the consent mechanism of the data controller
treatment is considered to be in breach of the GDPR. (...) (The underlining is from the Agency
Spanish Data Protection).
IV.3 Therefore, from the actions carried out and without prejudice to what is derived from the
instruction of this sanctioning file, it follows that the way to revoke
consent raises difficulties regarding the procedure for its provision that
is limited to marking a box in the application itself, without going to the
settings in the device's operating system. (…)

The investigated entity has stated in relation to the revocation of the
consent, in short, that has created a "Subscription Center" in the application
that allows you to update the permissions granted to the application, and therefore, you can
revoke the consent for the functionalities analyzed, from within the
application and not using a device operating system procedure.

Based on the foregoing and in accordance with the principle of effectiveness, proportionality and
dissuasiveness in the imposition of sanctions, given that they have been adopted
the measures that constituted the sanction indicated in the initial agreement, the
filing of the sanction for non-compliance with art. 7.3 of the RGPD that proposed the
instructor.
11. On the principle of legal certainty.

LALIGA maintains in its arguments made to the proposed resolution, in
summary, (...) The assessment of the existence of an infringement is based on considerations
that are not taken into account by the European or Spanish legislator, given that the duty to
reporting must be carried out at the beginning of the treatment cycle, as required by
the criteria of the EDPB.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

69/85

(...) being the legal framework applicable to all cases of treatment, of the
Proposal could derive that the scope and content of the information to be
facilitated to the affected party would have a variable character in attention to the circumstances that in
each case considers the Supervisor himself to be concurrent, even when there is no provision
any in the regulations that require that the way of complying with the duty of information differs
depending on whether there is a single data collection or several successive ones. Therefore, the
control authority could, before two assumptions of treatments in which it is provided
similar information, decide that in some cases the principle of
transparency, while in another the principle would call for “enhanced” compliance
of the duty of information, in terms that are not foreseen in any provision and
to be established in each case based on what the
controlling authority.

(...) Such a conclusion must be considered contrary to the principle of security
legal, guaranteed by article 9.3 of the CE. It is not possible for the Supervisor, in the
framework of some actions can modify the interpretation of the legislator, on the basis
of some considerations not foreseen by the legislator (...)

It must be based on the concept of legal certainty, which LALIGA understands violated

tenor of the pronouncements of the proposed resolution.

The Constitutional Court configures the principle of legal certainty, as a
“sum of certainty and legality, hierarchy and normative publicity, non-retroactivity of what is not
favorable, prohibition of arbitrariness, but that, without exhausting itself in the addition of these
principles, it would not have needed to be expressly formulated. legal certainty is
the sum of these principles, balanced in such a way as to promote, in the order
justice, justice and equality in freedom” (Vote 27-81). legal certainty
Understood in its broadest sense, legal certainty supposes the expectation
reasonably founded of the citizen in what should be the action of power in
application of the law” (STC 36/1991).

Likewise, the High Court indicates, the principle of legitimate expectations is a
that (...) derives from the constitutional postulates of legal certainty, regarding the act
own and good faith, and seeks to protect the company against changes
untimely that the Administration adopts, ignoring antecedents in which
that was founded to continue in the exercise of an activity or in the claim of certain
conditions or rules applicable to their relationship with the authorities (...)

Both principles provide the framework for action of individuals in their
relations with the administrative public powers, characterized by the notes of
predictability and legal certainty, contemplated in articles 9 and 103 of the
Spanish constitution.

Based on the foregoing, LALIGA's allegations regarding the bankruptcy of the aforementioned
principles must be rejected outright, insofar as it has not been issued by this
Agency, any resolution that analyzes a similar assumption, and that applies the RGPD,
 
 it is
to say that
 a certain interpretation has been advocated and now, in the present
 
case, it has been modified.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

70/85

The allegations in this sense are expressed in the conditional, "could be derived",

“would consider”, that is, they indicate hypotheses that in LALIGA's opinion could happen.

Addresses an expectation that a disparity of criteria could occur before
similar assumptions. That is to say, it does not prove that it has occurred, but rather it states that,
your trial, it could happen. Faced with this, it must be pointed out that the legitimate and
legal certainty is “built” on the determination of the interpretation criteria
and application to the assumption of fact what is established in the norm. And as stated
before, at present there is a lack of elements in comparative terms to carry out
that statement.

As indicated by LALIGA in its arguments made to the initial agreement, the
GDPR is a new standard, in force since 05/25/2016 and fully applicable from
05/25/2018, so given its short period of application this Agency has not issued
some resolution from which a certain answer can be established a priori.
It should be noted that in any case, a general criterion is not being determined,
but the material content of this resolution is limited to this type of
treatment with the special characteristics of which it is a creditor.

Now, LALIGA, since the initial agreement, has had enough elements
to know the criterion of the supervisory body and adapt its actions to it – such
as it has done with geolocation, without explaining the difference because in that case if
includes the icon and in the case of the microphone it does not. All this without prejudice to the fact that, if
Although no similar case has been analyzed in this Agency, the truth is that the Whereas
of the RGPD offer interpretive criteria since 2016.

To which we must add that this Agency, although it has not pronounced itself in
similar resolutions, has not changed its interpretation in this regard, please cite
As an example, the document referring to “Application access to the screen in
Android devices”5, where it is indicated in its conclusions that (…) The acceptance by the
screen recording user does not meet the conditions of consent
if the interested party has not previously been clearly informed of the purposes of said
treatment in accordance with article 13 of the RGPD. Similarly, it will not comply with the
principles of transparency that the recording of the screen occurs without the user
be aware of when it is running, regardless
that consent has been granted at a given time.

Application developers, if they use screen recording, must
ensure that user consent is appropriately collected with
after complying with the information requirements indicated by the regulations and
offers an easy way to withdraw such consent. In addition, they must provide
mechanisms so that the user is fully aware of when they are
making these recordings. (…)

In conclusion, it may be that at the beginning of the LALIGA proceedings he was unaware of the
criteria of the regulatory body regarding a specific treatment, but at this point

5 https://www.aepd.es/media/notas-tecnicas/nota-tecnica-acceso-a-programa-en-android.pdf

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

71/85

of the procedure, it cannot be placed in a deliberate ignorance of the criterion of this
body, since it has no elements to consider that the Agency validates its action
without the inclusion of the brand or icon, quite the contrary.
12. Regarding the determination of the amount in the initial agreement and its impact on
the rights of the investigated.

LALIGA, in its arguments made to the proposed resolution, indicates, in
synthesis, that the determination in the initial agreement of an amount of the sanction, prior
assessment of circumstances of unlawfulness and culpability, without hating the entity,
places him in a defenseless position, as he cannot claim anything regarding the inaccurate
of that assessment. It also maintains that the motion for a resolution has
multiplied by 2.5 the amount established in the initial agreement, without the existence of a document or
additional proof in the instruction, assuming all this that the processing of the
procedure can be punished by the administrative body, causing a
situation in peius.

Against this, it should be noted, first, that since the entry into force of the
Law 39/2015 of October 1, the possibility of determining an amount at the beginning of the
procedure has its origin in the provisions of articles 64.f) and 85. That is, from
its validity and application (at least 3 years ago), this Agency has been acting
"procedurally" in that sense, with the corresponding prior analysis of the Cabinet
Legal of the Agency and without having been declared by any jurisdictional body
unlawful in that procedure. In addition, the principles of legal certainty and trust
legitimate, which have been invoked by the LIGA in this procedure, we
They claim that precisely a change in the configuration of the start-up agreements
would cause the bankruptcy of said principles -in the procedural field-, since it would not be justified
because in the procedures instructed by the Agency since 2016, it is carried out
one way, and when the person under investigation is LALIGA, there are circumstances that imply that
change of course. Well, in those cases, as in this one, a priori, the amount is neither
fixed - it is determined within a range -, nor the reproach of an infringing conduct
can be established only through the imposition of a financial penalty.

Second, that determination is an “initial assessment of the
circumstances” derived from the elements obtained during the previous actions of
inspection, and against what the investigated has the right to allege what his right
agrees to the appropriate procedural step, that is, in the first pleadings step.

That is why expressions such as (...) Of the performances are always indicated
practiced and without prejudice to what is derived from the investigation of this file
sanctioning (...) or (...) the sanction that could correspond for violation of the article
5.1 a) of the RGPD would be (…).

Therefore, we cannot face any type of defenselessness, precisely because
two fundamental issues, (i) it is an initial assessment, which can be
maintained, or "modified" subsequently "up" or "down" (precisely derived from
what results from the investigation) and (ii) against which the investigated maintains his
list of "procedural weapons" to refute what was indicated by the sanctioning body.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

72/85

Thirdly, it should be noted that there is an additional element to assess
during the instruction, with respect to what is included in the initial agreement, such as the
recognition by LALIGA that it has not included a brand, sign or icon in the
application, and that he does not have the will to carry it out either (a situation that continues even
after the motion for a resolution).

As has been repeatedly explained, this circumstance has consequences
that increase the sanctioning reproach – and not for not giving up the procedure, but
because they reveal a continuing infraction that has a greater impact on the
rights of those affected. Nor can it be understood that the processing of the
procedure supposes a penalty to the investigated, it serves to mention that precisely in
Regarding the possible violation of art. 7.3 GDPR, the instructor proposed the
file, and regarding the display of the geolocation icon, it is understood that the
initially claimed. Both circumstances are the result of the instruction of the
sanctioning procedure, which shows that, obviously, it cannot be
understand "penalized" the investigated when processing the procedure.
13. On typical behavior.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD provides, that (...) Infractions of the
following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount: a) the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;(…).

The exposed facts are constitutive of an infraction, attributable to the entity
investigated, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and qualified for the purposes of
prescription as a very serious infringement in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, which
considers as such, "the treatment of personal data violating the principles and
guarantees established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
14. About the applicable corrective powers.

It establishes article 58 of the RGPD, under the heading "Powers", in its section 2 d)

and i), the following:

Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers

indicated below: (…);

 d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period; (…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;
15. Of the imposition of sanctions.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

73/85

It establishes article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for

the imposition of administrative fines “in its sections 1, 2 and 5, the following:
1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated
in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and
dissuasive
(…)
2. When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount in each case
individual, due account shall be taken of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question, as well as the number
of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate
the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor reported the breach and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through infringement.
(…)5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

74/85

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)
16. Determination of the proposed measures.

In view of the practiced instruction, of the persistent behavior of
non-compliance by the investigated entity, and attending to compliance with the
principle of effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness, it is considered appropriate to propose
the imposition of the following measures for the violation of art. 5 of the GDPR, principle
of transparency:

p.

q.

The one provided for in article 58.2 d) RGPD to order the investigated entity to
that the treatment carried out through the application complies with the
transparency principle.

The one provided for in article 58.2 i) RGPD, referring to the imposition of a fine
administrative.

17. Determination of the amount of the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.
In accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 and 5 RGPD transcribed above, it is estimated
determine the amount of the penalty, according to the following criteria:

17.1 About extenuating circumstances:

In the initial agreement, derived from the previous inspection actions,
considered that the extenuating circumstance derived from section a of art. 85.2
RGPD, regarding the duration of the infringement, since only the
application on June 9, 2018.

However, derived from the instruction of this sanctioning file, and
at the procedural moment in which the proceedings are found, said circumstance
disappears, since the manifestations of the investigated entity
 
  – that are confirmed
in the arguments made to the motion for a resolution -
 
  indicate that they persist in their
action and that they will not include elements that reinforce the principle of transparency. For the
that we are facing a continuous infraction in the time that happens to the present,
which aggravates the sanctioning reproach in relation to the duration of the infraction.

The entity alleges that there are extenuating circumstances such as:
-The adoption of appropriate measures to mitigate possible damage and
damages by developing the app from the principle of privacy by design and by
default, self-imposed diligence and proactive responsibility. This mitigation is
corresponds to art. 83.2 c) GDPR. “Any action taken by the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment to mitigate the damages suffered by the interested parties”
-The volume of affected subjects. The 50,000 users cannot be a
large-scale number for its management of a supposed base of 10,000,000 possible

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

75/85

users. The figure obtained from Google Play does not allow us to infer the number of users who
have active the functionalities or the operating system that was required to be
Android 6.0 or higher. This attenuation corresponds to art. 83.2 a) GDPR.

-LALIGA has not committed any previous infraction regarding the protection of

data, this mitigating factor corresponds to art. 83.2 e) GDPR.

-LALIGA has cooperated proactively with the AEPD from the very beginning.
both through tweeter and by sending emails addressed to
instruccion@agpd.es and inspeccion@agpd.es. Also, during the inspection visit,
showed a collaborative attitude, with the presence of COMPANY 1 in order to provide
of maximum transparency to the procedure. This circumstance corresponds to the
art. 83.2 f) GDPR.

In the allegations made to the motion for a resolution, it is indicated that
adopted measures that prove compliance with the principle of privacy from the
design such as: (...) that data processing is not carried out that allows a
identification of users, not collecting any sound captured by the microphone of the
device, nor on the servers, (...) a reminder process was established
about the possibility of access to these functionalities.(...) The
possibility for the user to revoke consent, not only from the system itself
operating phone, but with an additional procedure (...) Once published the
information regarding the application, and before a warning related to the
possible investigation of the facts carried out on social networks (not aimed at
LALIGA), was made available to the control authority, The arguments of the
proposal that there is a duty to collaborate would lead to the interpretation of
that the mitigating factor provided for in art. 83.2 f) GDPR.

In the face of these manifestations, the following must be indicated:
On compliance with the principle of privacy by design:

LALIGA states that (...) no sound captured by the
microphone of the device (...) statement that must be rejected because it would count to the
truth, precisely the operation of the application is based on capturing the
sound from the microphone.

It also indicates that measures were taken to prevent the user from being identified, without
However, no coherent explanations have been offered regarding the treatment of the
IP address of the user, since, despite what is indicated in the Report, it is recognized that
controls both a priori and a posteriori said information, that is, once there is
There has been a match or concordance with the information transmitted to the servers in the cloud.
Nor has it explained the possibility of identifying a specific device and
the measures that prevent this from occurring, to the extent that when it has had
Well, he has been able to identify a device and provide a navigation record of it.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

76/85

Nor has it accredited the existence and the mechanism of "reminders" about
the provision of consent for access to audio information and
geolocation, which is indicated in its current privacy policy.

Regarding the collaboration with the Agency, it was already indicated in the proposal of
resolution that (...) Finally, indicate that the reported entity has not cooperated
actively that allows applying the circumstance provided for in art. 83.2 f) GDPR. The
entity reported communicated with the AEPD after the publication by the body
on the social network twitter that ex officio investigations were being initiated. That is, it is not the
entity that communicates, motu proprio, no information, but acts behind the
knowledge of that information.

Regarding the collaboration and cooperation that he claims he showed, indicate that in
Article 58.1 RGPD collects the powers of inspection, so the appropriate one is done
Refer to sections a), e) and f). Likewise, both the old LOPD and the recent
LOPDGDD, establish in the duty of collaboration and the scope of the actions of
inspection, constituting non-compliance with a violation of the regulations. so no
it is possible to attribute to the reported entity, any conduct to which it was not
forced. It is not possible to "reward" an entity for doing what the standard determines. (…)
The argument that, according to the Agency's interpretation,
The mitigating factor of collaboration could never be applied, because as indicated by LALIGA
acts after learning that the supervisory body would initiate investigative actions.
Cooperating or collaborating requires a material content that goes beyond a mere
communication, as LALIGA did. Therefore, in this case it is fully assumed the
indications made in the motion for a resolution.

Finally, regarding the safeguards indicated in the reports of
the “external” law firms and the meetings that were held prior to
the implementation of the new functionalities, the proposed resolution indicated what
next (...) It is not appropriate to appreciate article 83.2 c) RGPD, precisely because neither in the
design took into account the safeguards recommended by external reports, nor
nor did he attend to the documentation that reflects the internal meetings in LA LIGA of
Privacy by Designa on the AppLALIGA, maintained in March 2018. (In this
documentation it is recommended to anonymize the data obtained in such a way that it is not
may be associated with any personal data or identifier. Specifically, it is recommended not
process or collect unique identifiers such as IMEI, MAC address, device id, ID of
advertising, device serial number or IP address). Arguments that are taken
entirely in this resolution.

In short, LALIGA alleges the adoption of measures that protect the rights

of users and that are privacy-by-design compliant, and have not been accredited.

Likewise, the entity has brought to the procedure to carry out a trial
comparative, the application whose purpose is to identify songs through capturing
of audio and that the device shows which composition and its author it refers to. Well
Well, as explained in the resolution, said application grants full control to the
user, since it is the user -and not the application- who decides to activate the microphone so that it

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

77/85

pick up ambient sound. Circumstance that would eliminate the reporting requirement
claim in this case.
On the volume of affected.

 The investigated entity makes allegations to the initiation agreement, in relation to
the concept of treatment on a "large scale" that must be rejected completely, since it is
a concept that is linked to other elements referred to in the RGPD (need to
data protection delegate, and other issues... but it is not referred to the volume of
treatments as modulating criterion of the amount of penalties).

-Notwithstanding the foregoing, Ruling WP 243, indicates the following (...)
In any case, the Working Group recommends that the
following factors, in particular, when determining whether the treatment is carried out at
big scale:

a) the number of interested parties affected, either as a specific figure or as a

proportion of the corresponding population;

b) the volume of data or the variety of data elements that are the subject

of treatment;
the duration, or permanence, of the data processing activity;

c)
d) the geographical scope of the treatment activity. (…)

The aforementioned Opinion not only indicates those characteristics, which would be perfectly
applicable to the alleged object of analysis in this proceeding, but also
proposes as examples of "large-scale" treatments, some treatments where the
geolocation is decisive, as is the case in the system designed by LA LIGA to
fulfill the intended purpose.

Similarly, as in the previous case, the persistence of their offending behavior
it obviously keeps (even increases) the number of those affected,
as discussed in the section on aggravating circumstances.
About the absence of violations.

The absence of infractions cannot be taken into account for the purposes of
of the entity to accommodate section e), as this expressly indicates
(…) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment
(…)

That is to say, the term absence does not appear in the norm, from which it is deduced that the
previous infractions committed, would determine the concurrence of a circumstance
aggravating circumstance to assess, but the absence of infractions, in the present case cannot
have mitigating effects, since the normal thing is not to commit infractions.
On the redefinition of the privacy policy.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

78/85

It is accredited that the obligations derived from article
13 RGPD and 11 LOPDGDD, even explaining the logic of the treatment. Nevertheless,
the foregoing, cannot have the intended effects, in the first place, since giving
compliance with a standard cannot be assessed in a procedure
sanctioning, - above all, when the violation of said
precepts - and regarding the explanation of the logic of the treatment, it does not fill the gap
regarding the absence of the brand, icon or sign.
About geolocation icon sign.

It is credited that an icon is displayed when geolocation is activated,
circumstance that mitigates the unlawfulness of the imputed infringement and that, obviously,
will have effects in determining the amount to be imposed.
17.2 Regarding aggravating circumstances:
17.2.1. Section a) establishes the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement,
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the data processing operation
concerned, as well as the number of affected parties and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

Regarding the nature of the infraction, it should be noted that we are facing the
Violation of an essential informative principle in the treatment of personal data
personal, as it is configured as the cornerstone on which rest other
principles and that transcends all areas of the right to data protection. Of
Hence, non-compliance is of special importance.

In relation to the seriousness of the infringement, it must also be observed, as
parameter, the number of affected, the entity stated during the previous actions
of inspection, which are 50,000 users who have accepted the treatment in question, and
derived from the persistence over time of the offending conduct, cannot be considered
that this number has decreased, but that, within that limit, there may have been other
users who have been recorded and geolocated.

This argument is confirmed in view of the explanation offered by LALIGA in the
documentation that accompanies the motion for a resolution, when referring to the manner of
select the users, which supports the renewal of “the sample”, which follows the order
connection to the server. It is indicated that the sample is established “at a specific moment
and remains in effect indefinitely. (...) at the request of LALIGA, they could be modified
the indicators mentioned above, so that new users are included in the
sample".

Also in relation to the number of affected, LALIGA indicates in the
allegations to the proposed resolution that, within the group of 50,000 users,
they are applying the functionalities to 4,227,848. circumstance that can not have
intended effects, because taking into account the possibility not only of using the
information of the 50,000 users, but to put it into operation for any
user who has granted the permissions to LALIGA through the operating system, said
circumstance does not eliminate the sanctioning reproach.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

79/85

Based on the foregoing, and after rejecting the arguments referring to the concept of
“large-scale” treatment proposed by the investigated entity in relation to the
volume of data, and the irregular nature of the sample at the will of LALIGA, it is estimated
that the indicated figure constitutes by itself - free of other probabilities pointed out -
an aggravating circumstance.
17.2.3. Sections b) and d) establish (...) the intent or negligence in the
infringement; (...) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have been applied
under articles 25 and 32; both sections are related to the element
subjective in the commission of the offence.

The opening agreement indicated the following (...) both sections were
relate to the subjective element in the commission of the offense. remember
that culpability consists in the capacity of the obligated subject to act in another way,
that is, in accordance with the legal system. The analysis of the principle of culpability
and due diligence in data processing is carried out through the premise that
the establishment and start-up of the functionalities under analysis,
respond solely and exclusively to LA LIGA and therefore the breaches indicated in
throughout this initiation agreement, are attributable to it at least by way of
culpable negligence. (...).

The motion for a resolution indicated the following (…) In the phase
procedural in which the procedure is found and as a result of the allegations
formulated by the investigated entity, which show the persistence in the
offending conduct, undoubtedly already with full knowledge of the criteria of the agency
regulator, from the reports of the Working Group of Art. 29, cannot be maintained in the
same conditions the assessment of this circumstance, but inevitably it has been
to raise the sanctioning reproach, based on what was already indicated in the aforementioned agreement of
opening and the current situation, where the entity persists in committing the infraction,
Specifically, in the aforementioned opening agreement it was indicated (...) there is a serious lack of
diligence in data processing to the extent that the entity was fully
aware of the implications that the right to data protection had the
application, so much so, that expressly in one of the reports requested by the
entity indicated precisely the need to establish mechanisms that
allow the user to identify that the treatment in question was taking place. Y
Despite these considerations, nothing was included in that sense. The mere request of
legal reports in order to analyze the implications for privacy arising from the
use of the application, without taking into consideration the safeguards that are established,
they reduce this advice to a mere formality, they prove a deliberate non-observance
of these implications and cannot be taken into account as parameters that mitigate
guilt or unlawfulness of the imputed conduct, but rather aggravate the disregard of
the infringing action and in identical terms the sanctioning reproach. this circumstance
becomes a qualified aggravating circumstance. (...).

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

80/85

Likewise, in terms of compliance with the principle of privacy by design
and by default, as noted above to counter extenuating circumstances
proposed by the entity, there is in the procedure, documentation that reflects the
internal meetings in LA LIGA of Privacy by Designa on the AppLALIGA, held
in March 2018. (In this documentation it is recommended to anonymize the data
obtained in such a way that it cannot be associated with any personal data or identifier. In
In particular, it is recommended not to process or collect unique identifiers such as the IMEI,
MAC address, device id, advertising ID, device serial number or IP address).
In relation to these principles and taking into account this safeguard, the
entity states that the IP address and the user agent are no longer used, and
however, it was verified during the instruction of the procedure that, in the policy
of privacy hosted on the web, appears in identical terms that, in the month of June
2018, when the exploitation of the application began, (folios 27 and 351). That is, if
reports that the IP address is collected and a user identifier is assigned.

Ultimately, based on the subjective element in the commission of the offence,
one cannot speak of a serious lack of diligence, but rather that the entity, despite the
exposed conditioning factors, voluntarily persists in its action with the explanation
of the "consideration judgment" that has been carried out in this regard, to which the appropriate
referral and that must be rejected outright in accordance with the arguments that
they were exposed on the basis of law that refutes it.

All of the above implies a very serious lack of diligence in their actions and
no evidence to presume implementation of any type of measure or improvement that
make sure that the valued events do not happen again.

The required diligence is given to us by the offender's professionalism, that is, the
activity to which it is dedicated, and that, although the LIGA does not have as its main activity the
treatment of personal data, the truth is that with the application there are
important implications in the matter, so it should be greater when,
precisely, it has the implications referred to throughout this resolution.

This has been collected in the Judgment of the National Court of Appeal 104/2006
points out that "the applicant entity for the activity it carries out must deal with a large
volume of personal data in its files, which means that extreme care must be taken
in the handling of said data to achieve effective protection, since a
autonomous fundamental right, the right to the protection of personal data according to the
STS 292/2000”.

In the same sense, the Judgment of the National High Court, Appeal 143/2006
points out that "that's right, the decrease in the guilt of the sanctioned person or the
illegality of the fact, since the nature of the activity carried out by the entity
recurrent, and its permanent relationship with personal data, determines that the
behavior required of those who are usually in contact with this type of data
be distinguished and exquisite care about compliance with the requirements imposed
by the LOPD, because the protection of fundamental rights is at stake - art. 18.4
EC-. “

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

81/85

17.2.4. Section k) establishes any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to
the circumstances of the case, although the imputed entity does not have as its main object of
business the processing of personal data, the truth is that to exercise your
interest in protecting their financial assets from fraud (rights to exploit the
issuance of the football matches of its associates) uses the treatment of the data of
users through invasive techniques of their privacy for the fulfillment of that
purpose, without the certainty of the effectiveness of its system, for example, in terms of the location and
to the impossibility of determining if the user is in a bar on the street or in
a private home or dwelling located at any height in the same vertical of the
establishment.

This system may not fulfill its purpose as the device may be in
another altitude that the system is not able to discriminate. It may happen that the device
is in a multi-storey building, capturing information at the private address of
a third party, and that associates the information processed with that of a place in which it is not
find. The investigated entity does not explain in what terms its system is modified with
the new “heat map” that it claims to have introduced.

In the allegations made to the proposed resolution, LALIGA credits
a modification of the privacy policy that is accessed from the website itself
app. However, due to its own operating system, which is
activates the functionalities object of analysis, during the broadcast of football matches of
LALIGA teams, said privacy policy cannot identify the specific moment
of sound pickup. Hence, no matter how well defined the policy of
privacy, the brand, signal or icon will always be necessary, showing the user that
the audio captured by the device's microphone is actually being accessed. (except
that it be the user himself who decides its activation, as happens in other applications
of similar operation).
17.2.5. Persistence in the actions of the investigated entity that continues to fail to comply
the art. 5.1 a) of the RGPD, obviously influences the determination of the amount of the amount
of the fine to be imposed.

Because it affects the (i) period during which the infringement occurs, which eliminates the
only extenuating circumstance observed in the initial agreement, to make it a circumstance
highly qualified aggravating circumstance: the commission of the infraction is passed in at least one day,
to the commission of the offense for several months, and that exponentially increases the
sanctioning reproach and therefore the amount of the amount to be imposed, since at least
from the start of the national league championship, until the month of January 2019 – which is
the date on which LALIGA states that it continues without including notice, mark or sign on the
capturing the audio- there have been
 19
days of the aforementioned championship (without prejudice to other competitions that may
organize LALIGA), with an average of 3 days of broadcasting matches for each of
those days, there have been at least 57 days of broadcasting soccer matches;

 – until the motion for a resolution – at least
 

 

(ii) this circumstance of the period during which the infringement occurs also
has been able to increase the volume of those affected (the limit of 50,000 users in a

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

82/85

day of use of the functionalities cannot affect the same users who
for at least 57 days of issuance. The maximum number may be the same, but
they do not have to be “the same” users – given the device choice system
- and therefore the consequences of the lack of transparency would affect more people);

and finally indicate that obviously, the persistence in the commission of the
infraction influences the assessment made of the (iii) subjective element in the commission
of the infraction that eliminates the culpable negligence initially considered for
also turn it into a very qualified aggravating circumstance.
17.2.6. These circumstances – which were included in the motion for a resolution and
maintained in this resolution - prevented maintaining the amount of the sanction to
impose on the terms of the startup agreement.

Now, it has been proven regarding the use of geolocation, that
an icon is actually displayed, so the amount that was included in the proposal
of resolution (500,000 euros) must be reduced, without prejudice to the persistence in the
commission of the offense regarding access to the information captured by the microphone without
any mark or sign.
17.2.7. Therefore, it is estimated that the amount of the penalty to be imposed is 250,000 euros,
all in relation to the provisions of article 85.1 RGPD in that the
imposition of the sanction must be effective, dissuasive and proportionate.
As for effective and dissuasive, it must be taken into account that the imposition of the sanction
supposes the “punitive” response of the public power in the face of illicit conduct, and has, among
others, the purpose of influencing the will of the sanctioned person to prevent him from repeating
commit the offending type and for legality to be restored.

In view of the persistence in committing the offense by the
LALIGA, taking into account the amount of the penalty indicated in the proposal
of resolution, it is estimated that the sanction proposed in this procedural phase is
adequate to the intended effect and complies with the dissuasiveness.

  The determination of this amount is estimated adjusted to the judgment of
proportionality, for which three elements have been taken into account: the concurrence of
aggravating or mitigating circumstances; the economic effect on the assets of the
sanctioned and the percentage that the proposed sanction supposes, in the range of amounts
that determines the norm.

b)

taking into account the concurrence of aggravating circumstances
qualified, and the absence of extenuating circumstances – except for what refers to the
geolocation icon sign -; the exponential increase of reproach
sanctioning when passing from the commission of the infraction of one day, to at least 57 days of
broadcast of matches.

c) Continuing with the judgment of proportionality, it must be taken into account
the amount of the sanction, with the effect pursued with it and the possible loss
or economic affection in the patrimonial sphere of the sanctioned person.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

83/85

In this case, it appears on folios 274 to 348, the Audit Report, Annual Accounts
and Management Report of LA LIGA, as of June 30, 2018, including a
Net amount of turnover of 1,754,301,000 euros. So the
imposition of a penalty in the amount of 250,000 euros, in no way can
consider disproportionate.

d)

  And finally, the percentage that it represents within the range of the amount
determined by the RGPD for this type of infraction (which the LOPDGDD considers
"very serious") and amounting to 20,000,000 euros. The proposed penalty
about 1% of that amount.

17.2.8. Persistence in the actions of the investigated entity that continues to fail to comply
the art. 5.1 a) of the RGPD, and in view of the principle of effectiveness and dissuasiveness, makes
a sanction is imposed in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) ordering that
the treatment carried out is adapted to the RGPD through mechanisms that reinforce the
knowledge by users of the activation of the functionalities of
microphone and location of the devices that install the application, at the time
that this occurs, with the warning of the provisions of article 85.6 of the RGPD
which determines that (...) Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority to
pursuant to article 58, section 2, shall be sanctioned in accordance with section 2 of the
this article with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount (...)
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
FIRST: IMPOSE the NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF
G78069762, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 j) of the RGPD, a penalty for
the commission of an infringement of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.5 a)
of the aforementioned RGPD, consisting of an administrative fine, in the amount of 250,000 euros
(two hundred fifty thousand euros) in accordance with the provisions of article 83. 1, 2 and 5
of the GDPR.
SECOND: ORDER to NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF
G78069762, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD for the infringement
of article 5.1 a) of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD, which: adapts
to the principle of transparency the use of the application in the terms indicated in the
this resolution, through mechanisms that reinforce the knowledge on the part of
users of the activation of the microphone functionality of the devices that
install the application, at the time it occurs. All this must
effective within ONE MONTH.

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

84/85

THIRD: FILE the NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE, with NIF
G78069762 the imputation of the commission of the infringement of article 7.3 RGPD, foreseen
in article 83.5 a) of the aforementioned RGPD
FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
PROFESSIONAL.
FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art.
98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Real
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it
will proceed to its collection in executive period.
Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is between
on the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the deadline to make the voluntary payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if it is between
On the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of
second following business month or immediately following.
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.
Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
October. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

 

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

85/85

knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would
The precautionary suspension has ended.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan 6
28001 - Madrid

http://www.aepd.es
https://sedeaepd.gob.es

