
The Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, is organizing a free online workshop on Personal Data Protection and Compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Tourism, to be held on Wednesday, May 19, at 10 am.
The online workshop is intended exclusively for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector, whose specific needs are tailored to the workshop program. Apply to participate
Namely, tourism is specific due to the large flow of people, the hectic pace of work and the processing of large amounts of personal data of Croatian and foreign citizens. The General Data Protection Regulation has been in force since 25 May 2018 and must be respected by all those who process personal data of European Union citizens. Failure to comply with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and failure to take appropriate measures to protect personal data may result in personal data breaches, mistrust of clients in tourism service providers, and thus a decline in reputation and financial losses.
Workshop participants will learn what key steps they need to take to bring their business into line with the General Data Protection Regulation and get answers to their questions about that harmonization.
Do I have to ask the guest for consent to send promotional materials? Can I request a guest ID card and keep it or make a copy of the ID card? Do I need to have a data protection officer? If I am a private apartment renter, am I obliged to apply the GDPR? Can I send promotional materials to guests? Do I have to keep records of processing activities? How to prove compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation? Register for the online workshop and find out the answers to these and all other questions you can ask in advance or during the workshop!
This workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency within the implementation of the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), with the aim of supporting micro, small and medium enterprises in aligning business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. GDPR).
