1/24

Procedure No.: PS/00374/2018
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim on 08/01/2018
before the Spanish Data Protection Agency against the JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA
(MINISTRY OF EDUCATION) (hereinafter, the respondent).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that “After carrying out the tests of
access to the body of teachers of secondary education in the call made in the
Order of 04/05/2018. The publication of the corresponding qualifications obtained by the
candidates, in both parts of the opposition, were carried out physically at the headquarters of
specialties and on the portal of the Ministry digitally.

In the physical publication of the qualifications, the name, surnames and DNI were detailed.
completed for each of the applicants. And in the digital consultation the
same data of each of the applicants.

In addition, both in the opposition phase and in the competition phase, the queries
individualized that could be made already, outside, of the qualifications or file of the
applicant did not require any security or person verification, showing that
information merits and private and personal data about the working life and training of each
one of the applicants.

accompanies;

-On a cork board there is a sheet of the Junta de Andalucía/Ministry
Education, with a list of applicants who have not passed the first test, in the
tests for secondary school teachers, vocational training technicians, EOI...,
of 07/03/2018, p. 2 of 2, including DNI, surnames and names and grades from part A
and part b.

-Another sheet with the publication, as stated, physical, of the second test in the
that the data of the claimant appear in the "list of applicants who have passed the
second test."

-A third sheet of 07/20/2018, with the same data, referring to those who have

passed the opposition phase, on a cork board, stating the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/24

-Copy of the impression of the digital publication of the qualifications obtained,

extracted from:

  ***URL.1, of qualifications of the first and second phase, specialty systems
electronic, with the qualification of the test 1 in its practical part and topic, and of the two, and the
Opposition note with the data headquarters nif, name and surnames and number of applicant.

-Copy the menu that allows the individualized query option existing on the website of the
Board, extracted from:
***URL.2, in which the title “individualized query” appears, and expressly in the box
puts "NIF", as a means of entering the data for the query. Introducing the same, and
having exposed in the different phases the complete DNIS of the participants,
You can view the individualized consultation of the merits.

SECOND: The Order of 04/05/2018, by which the call for
selective procedures for admission to the Teaching Teaching Corps
Secondary, Vocational Training Technical Teachers, School Teachers
Language Officers, Plastic Arts and Design Teachers, Arts Workshop Teachers
Plastics and Design and access to the Body of Teachers of Secondary Education and to the Body
of Professors of Plastic Arts and Design appears in BOJA 13-04).

In point 8.1.1 it is indicated:

“By resolution of each court, the qualifications of the first test will be published in the
bulletin board of the headquarters of the same, in that of the Territorial Delegation of Education in
whose area the court is located and, for merely informative purposes, on the web portal of the
Department of Education, and a copy of said qualifications must be sent to the
corresponding selection commission.”

And in 8.1.3.” Final qualification of the opposition phase.”

“The qualification of the opposition phase will be the arithmetic mean of the scores
obtained in the two tests passed, both valued from 0 to 10 points.
By resolution of each court, they will be published on the bulletin board of its headquarters,
in that of the Territorial Delegation of Education in whose area the court is located and,
merely informative purposes, on the web portal of the Ministry of Education, the
qualifications of the different parts of the test, sending a copy to the corresponding
selection commission.”

THIRD: On 11/6/2018, the director of the AEPD admitted for processing the
claim.

FOURTH: On 05/23/2019, the director of the AEPD agreed

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE of WARNING to
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA), for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.c) and article 5.1.f) of the RGPD in accordance with the
article 83.5 of the same.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/24

FIFTH On 06/24/2019 the respondent made allegations, indicating:

1)

On the date the data was published, the LOPDDGD was not in force.

2) It is a process of competitive bidding in which it is necessary to ensure the
publicity of the call and its bases, and transparency of the same, as indicated
the basic principles of access to the public function and are contained in the Constitution
Spanish and in the Basic Statute of the Civil Service.

As an example of the prevalence of these principles of transparency and publicity over that of
data protection, refers to the report of the Legal Office of the AEPD 358/2015 and the
judgment of the National Court (Chamber of Contentious-Administrative, Section 1) of
04/26/2012 dealing with: factual background first: “Dated on 09/15/2008, the
complaint by Pablo on the basis that the Qualifying Court of the Selective Tests
for Social Educators of Group II of Labor Personnel, published in ORDER 22-12-
2006 convened by the Ministry of the Presidency of the Junta de Extremadura has facilitated
to the FSP-UGT the personal data with the notes (from the second exercise) of the opponents
(both approved and suspended). The FSP-UGT uses said data to
inform the opponents by telephone about the grade obtained, providing it to whomever
request, just by giving the name of the person”, reproducing as it is considered of interest
the second legal basis that indicates:
SECOND

“ This room has ruled in appeal 215/2010 in relation to these facts with
occasion of the sanction imposed on the union that allegedly leaked the information
to the result of the opposition and in relation to the one that the Agency considered had been
committed an infringement related to data processing without consent.

The court understood in said ruling that we were facing a situation in which
consent was not required for the processing of personal data on the basis
of the following reasoning:

<<Therefore, one of the exceptions to the requirement of consent for the
data processing is that of the collision with general interests or with other rights of
superior value that make data protection decline due to the preference that should be
be granted to that other interest.

In the present case, since it is a competitive bidding procedure
we must attend to what article 103 of the Constitution states when it states that the
Public Administration objectively serves the general interests and acts in accordance with
the principles of effectiveness, hierarchy, decentralization, deconcentration and coordination, with
full submission to the Law and the Right. (paragraph 1) and when it states in paragraph 3 that
"The Law will regulate the status of public officials, access to the public function of
in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity..." (all in relation to the provisions of
article 23 C.E. which we will refer to later)

Obviously, the guarantees required by the processing of personal data cannot serve
to tarnish or annul these general requirements that force the processes to be
drive in compliance with the minimum requirements of transparency and publicity. The
superiority of these other values advises that in this case it be understood that it was not
The consent of the interested party is required for the treatment of the data of the consistent note
in his communication by the union now recurring.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/24

From this point of view, we must conclude that the consent of the
those persons who participate in a competitive bidding procedure for the
treatment of the qualifications obtained in said procedure and this as a guarantee and
requirement of the other participants to ensure the cleanliness and impartiality of the
procedure in which they attend. (...)

It is true that Organic Law 15/1999 does not expressly include exemptions or
exceptions to the personal data processing regime contained therein with
based on the guarantees of transparency of the competitive processes, for which it will be
It is necessary to weigh the conflicting interests in order to determine which of them should
prevail. Once said weighting has been carried out, and assessing the circumstances that here
concur, it is clear to this Court that the guarantee of
publicity and transparency of the competitive process on the right to protection of
data. (It is not uncommon for this Chamber to carry out this type of weighting or
appraisals; it suffices to refer to the judgment of appeal 331/205; DF 2/2010 or 862/2009).

Therefore, the estimation of the appeal and the annulment of the resolution will be appropriate.
appealed on the basis of the prevalence of the general interest, taking into consideration that,
As is natural, said use will only be protected within the purposes related to it.
competitive bidding procedure in application of the limits indicated in article
4 of the LOPD (...)>>

If the data processing in question (the one carried out by the Syndicate when allowing advertising
of the qualifications of one of the exercises of the selective process) has been considered
In accordance with the requirements of the LOPD, it is evident that the
compliance with security measures in relation to data whose disclosure has been
declared as legitimate because it is not linked to the guarantees of data protection
personal.

The priority of rights that was mentioned in the legal reasoning of the
dictated sentence obliges to understand that the security measures are not applicable and that
would have prevented the disclosure that, already in that sentence, it was affirmed that it was not contrary to
the LOPD.

SIXTH: The content of report 358/2015 is incorporated into the procedure, which is transcribed:

N/REF: 359710/2015

Examined your request for a report, sent to this Legal Office, regarding the consultation
raised by the SUB-DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF RESOURCE PLANNING
HUMAN AND REMUNERATION OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIONS
PUBLIC, please inform me of the following:

It is consulted if, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, Protection of Personal Data, you can exercise the right to
opposition recognized in article 17 of said rule to the publication of the name and
surnames of candidates in the development of a selective process for admission to a Corps

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/24

of the Public Administration, based on the fact that participation in it can give
result in retaliation by the applicants current employer.

The question raised has been studied in a report by this Agency dated July 21
of 2012, whose conclusions may be applicable to this case, therefore,
the same is transcribed below:

“This consultation raises what is the criterion of this Agency on the request for
a candidate for a selective procedure to have his name excluded from the lists
admitted and excluded, and assessment of the merits of said procedure, published in the
electronic headquarters of the consulting body.

The query refers to personal data within the framework of a
“public employment procedure”. Not specific, therefore, if it involves procedures
that affect civil servants or labor personnel, nor does it determine if it is being questioned about
procedures for access to public employment or internal promotion. In any case, yes
It is indicated that “the information includes lists of admitted, excluded and evaluations of
merits with identification of the candidates”. We understand, therefore, that in the lists of
admitted, excluded and evaluation of merits appear the names and surnames of the
candidates, not knowing if other information appears.

Thus, we consider, first of all, that the lists referred to in the query include
undoubtedly personal data, as they refer to the name and surnames,
It could be that the DNI or the personal registration number, as well as the circumstance of
participate in a selective public employment procedure, being admitted or not, as well as
the results of the different phases of the selection process, including the assessment of
merits of the contest phase, if any. Predictably they will also refer to the
definitive results of the selective procedure. It is, therefore, data that falls
Within the definition of personal data enshrined in art. 3.a) LOPD as
“any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons”.

It is considered whether it is possible to attend to the right of opposition of the affected party. The right to
opposition results from article 6.4 LOPD that establishes: "In cases in which it is not
The consent of the affected party is necessary for the processing of personal data.
personal, and provided that a law does not provide otherwise, he may oppose his
treatment when there are well-founded and legitimate reasons related to a specific situation
staff. In such a case, the person responsible for the file will exclude the data
relating to the affected party”.

Article 6.4 LOPD appears developed by articles 34 to 36 RDLOPD. The art. 3. 4
RDLOPD defines the right of opposition in the following terms:
“The right of opposition is the right of the affected party not to carry out the treatment
of your personal data or ceases in the same in the following cases:

a) When your consent is not necessary for the treatment, as a consequence of
the concurrence of a legitimate and well-founded reason, referring to their specific personal situation,
that justifies it, provided that a law does not provide otherwise.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/24

b) In the case of files whose purpose is to carry out activities of
advertising and commercial prospecting, in the terms provided in article 51 of this
Regulation, whatever the company responsible for its creation.

c) When the purpose of the treatment is to adopt a decision regarding the affected party
and based solely on an automated processing of your personal data, in
the terms provided for in article 36 of this Regulation”.

Considering that sections b) and c) of this article are totally unrelated to the alleged
raised, we will delve into the study of the first assumption.

In addition, we want to specify that the right of opposition must be exercised in the
terms of article 35 RDLOPD, by means of a request addressed to the data controller,
stating the well-founded and legitimate reasons related to the specific personal situation,
the request must be resolved within a period of ten days; after said period has elapsed without
expressly responds to the request, the guardianship may be interested before this Agency in the
terms of art. 18 LOPD.

II

In this sense, it is appropriate to study whether all the requirements to meet the exercise
of the right to oppose data processing. First of all, we will start by indicating
that the publication of lists of admitted and excluded and the evaluation of merits constitutes
a true transfer, in accordance with the definition of article 3.i) LOPD as "all
disclosure of data made to a person other than the interested party”. And the transfer remains
included within the concept of data processing in accordance with article 3.c)
LOPD and art. 5.1.t) of the Development Regulation of the LOPD approved by Royal Decree
1720/2007 of December 21 (RDLOPD).

For the art. 6.4 LOPD and art. 34.a) RDLOPD are applicable is necessary,
first, that there is a legitimate and well-founded reason, referring to the specific personal situation
of the affected. It is, therefore, an eminently casuistic element, as it comes
maintaining this Agency, as in the report of September 18, 2006, which must be
studied in each case of concrete fact, without being able to offer an answer
abstract. In the consultation it is mentioned that the interested party could see his future damaged
professional through the publications in question. Well, it will be necessary to analyze what is
his profession, and if the damage invoked may occur in it. In this sense,
This Agency does not have sufficient data to assess the specific situation being prosecuted.

But it is that, secondly, it is required that a law does not provide otherwise. The
matter of selective procedures appears presided over by the principles of
transparency and publicity. Based on article 103 of the Spanish Constitution, article
55 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee approved by Law 7/2007 of April 12 indicates
in its second section: “2. The Public Administrations, entities and organizations to which
referred to in article 2 of this Statute will select their official staff and
through procedures in which the constitutional principles are guaranteed
previously expressed, as well as those established below:
a) Publicity of the calls and their bases.
b) Transparency.
c) Impartiality and professionalism of the members of the selection bodies.
d) Independence and technical discretion in the actions of the selection bodies.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/24

e) Adequacy between the content of the selection processes and the functions or tasks to be
develop.
f) Agility, without prejudice to objectivity, in the selection processes”.

Regarding the provision of jobs, article 78 of the EBEP also
establishes the principle of publicity in the following terms: “1. The Administrations
Public companies will provide the jobs through procedures based on the
principles of equality, merit, ability and publicity”.

In its development, Royal Decree 364/1995 of April 10, on Entry of personnel to the
service of the AGE, provision of jobs and professional promotion, points out in its
article 5 the application of the principle of publicity; and thus applies it throughout its articles,
like art. 15 relative to the publication of the announcements of entry of civil servants and
its bases in the BOE, as well as art. 20 regarding the publication in the BOE of the
resolution approving the list of admitted and excluded and indicating the place where they will be
Official lists posted. In this sense the art. 20.2 prescribes: “2. When the
selective procedure allows it, the exhibition to the public of the lists will not be mandatory
of admitted applicants, and must be specified in the corresponding call. In
In these cases, the resolution, which must be published in the "Official State Gazette", must
collect the place and the start date of the exercises, as well as the list of the
applicants excluded with an indication of the causes and the term of rectification of defects”.
Article 22 also refers to the publication of the approved list.

As far as professional promotion procedures are concerned, it is also enshrined
the principle of publicity, both of the call and of the resolution, in article 38
of RD 364/1995, as well as particularized in articles 42 and 52 of the same Regulation.

In addition, as the query was raised by a State Agency, we want to highlight
that these principles, including that of publicity, are fully applicable to
procedures for the provision of jobs of said agencies, in accordance with
Article 20 of Law 28/2006 of July 18 on State Agencies. Furthermore, article 19
of the same provides in its section 1: "The selection of personnel referred to in the
Article 18.1.c) is carried out by public call and in accordance with the principles of
equality, merit and ability, as well as access to public employment for people with
disability". Principles also applicable to labor personnel according to art. 19.2 of the
same Law.

For its part, article 33 of Royal Decree 1403/2007, of October 26, by which
the AECID Statute is approved determines the applicability to said Agency of article
55 EBEP cited above, and therefore the oft-repeated principles of publicity and transparency.

Thus, we see that in selection procedures, the principle of publicity and
Transparency becomes essential, as a guarantor of the principle of equality. The
The National Court has weighed the principle of publicity with the protection of personal data.
personal nature, reaching the conclusion that during the processing of the selective process
the former must prevail. Thus, in the recent judgment of April 26, 2012 of the
First Section of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National High Court, which
cites in turn the relapse in resource 215/2010, he pointed out (emphasis is ours): “For
Therefore, one of the exceptions to the requirement of consent for data processing

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/24

is that of the collision with general interests or with other rights of greater value than
make data protection decline due to the preference that should be granted to that other
interest.

In the present case, since it is a competitive bidding procedure
we must attend to what article 103 of the Constitution states when it states that the
Public Administration objectively serves the general interests and acts in accordance with
the principles of effectiveness, hierarchy, decentralization, deconcentration and coordination, with
full submission to the Law and the Right. (paragraph 1) and when it states in paragraph 3 that
"The Law will regulate the status of public officials, access to the public function of
in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity..." (all in relation to the provisions of
article 23 C.E. which we will refer to later.

Obviously, the guarantees required by the processing of personal data cannot
serve to tarnish or annul these general requirements that force processes to be
drive in compliance with the minimum requirements of transparency and publicity. The
superiority of these other values advises that in this case it be understood that it was not
The consent of the interested party is required for the treatment of the data of the consistent note
in his communication by the union now recurring.

From this point of view, we must conclude that the consent of the
those persons who participate in a competitive bidding procedure for the
treatment of the qualifications obtained in said procedure and this as a guarantee and
requirement of the other participants to ensure the cleanliness and impartiality of the
procedure in which they attend. (...)

It is true that Organic Law 15/1999 did not expressly include exemptions or
exceptions to the personal data processing regime contained therein with
based on the guarantees of transparency of the competitive processes, for which it will be
It is necessary to weigh the conflicting interests in order to determine which of them should
prevail. Once said weighting has been carried out, and assessing the circumstances that here
concur, it is clear to this Court that the guarantee of
publicity and transparency of the competitive process on the right to protection of
data. (It is not uncommon for this Chamber to carry out this type of weighting or
appraisals; it suffices to refer to the judgment of appeal 331/205; DF 2/2010 or 862/2009).

Therefore, the estimation of the appeal and the annulment of the resolution will be appropriate.
appealed on the basis of the prevalence of the general interest, taking into consideration that,
As is natural, said use will only be protected within the purposes related to it.
competitive bidding procedure in application of the limits indicated in article
4 of the LOPD (...)”.

All this, of course, provided that data is being published whose treatment is not
excessive, since art. 4 LOPD states in its first section that: "the data of
personal character can only be collected for treatment, as well as subjecting them to said
treatment, when they are adequate, pertinent and not excessive in relation to the scope and
the specific, explicit and legitimate purposes for which they were obtained”. In this
sense, it would never be possible to exercise the right of opposition with respect to those data of
personal character that are necessary for compliance with the principle of publicity and
transparency of the selection process. For this they would have to be examined by the entity

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/24

consultant what data is being published and to what extent it is necessary
for compliance with these principles. Since this Agency does not know in this
specific data point, can not pronounce. But in any case we consider that
To comply with the principle of publicity, the interested party must be identified, as well as the
circumstance of being or not admitted to the call; if applicable, the reason for exclusion; So
how to offer the data of the evaluation of the merits. Regarding the valuation
individualized of each merit, it is also a subject subject to a wide casuistry.

But it is that, thirdly, it could be that the basic premise of the
right of opposition that consent is not necessary for the treatment of personal data
Personal data. The bases of the convocation of the
selective procedure in question, but if they contain the form in which
will carry out the publication of the different phases of the call – indicating, by
example, the publication of all of them in the electronic headquarters, without prejudice to the fact that, when the
regulations provide for it, they must also be published in the BOE – it can be understood that the
The interested party is implicitly granting his consent for said publication, and by
both for said assignment.

In other words, the processing of these personal data is based on the consent of the
affected, which has signed an instance to participate in the selective procedure that
is processed, including your personal data; and participation implies acceptance of the
bases of the call, which become law for the selective procedure. Therefore, the
The transfer that the publication of the data implies may be covered by the bases themselves.
of the announcement of the selective procedure in relation to article 59.6.b) of the Law
30/1992. This is how this Agency has been pronouncing itself, as in reports of April 18,
2011, which in turn cites that of April 9, 2008. In this second we affirm:

"However, the communication of data raised, contained in the notification of the
resolution of the admitted procedure, must be considered as transfer of data of
personal nature, since article 3 i) of the Organic Law defines it as "all
disclosure of data made to a person other than the interested party”. If what they want is
the publication of the aforementioned lists on bulletin boards of the dependencies of the
…, it supposes a transfer of personal data, defined in article 3 i) of
Organic Law 15/1999, as "Any disclosure of data made to a person other than
Of the interested".

In relation to the transfer of data, article 11.1 of the Law provides that "the data
of a personal nature subject to treatment may only be communicated to a third party for
the fulfillment of purposes directly related to the legitimate functions of the transferor
and of the assignee with the prior consent of the interested party”. This consent is only
will be excepted in the cases contemplated in article 11.2, whose section a) provides
the possible transfer without consent of the data when a norm with the rank of Law so
dispose.

In the event that arises, if the bases of the call for admission to the
…, provide for the publication of the lists of those admitted and excluded, including the causes of
exclusion, the participants in them will have given their consent prior to the aforementioned
transfer of their data when they accepted the bases and made their request to participate
in the same. In that case, consent could be implicitly understood.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/24

with the acceptance of the bases of the call and the publication of the
aforementioned data as it has been reflected in the same call.

However, the above provisions must be connected with the obligation
to notify the interested parties of the administrative resolutions that affect their rights and
interests, established in article 58 of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Regime
Legal of the Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure.

Said precept and the following article (article 59) strictly regulate the
assumptions in which such notification will occur in a different way from the personal notification,
either by publishing the resolutions, or by posting them on the bulletin board
of edicts or announcements. Therefore, it is appropriate to analyze whether, in accordance with the Organic Law
15/1999, the provision contained in article 59.- 6 of Law 30/1992, of November 26,
can be considered an enabling rule for the transfer, through publication, of the data
to which the consulting Corporation refers in its writing.

In accordance with the aforementioned precept, referring to the “Notification Practice”:
“Article 59. Practice of notification. (...)6. The publication, in the terms of the article
following, will replace the notification having the same effects in the following cases:
a) When the act is addressed to an indeterminate plurality of people or
when the Administration considers that the notification made to a single interested party is
insufficient to guarantee the notification to all, being, in this last case, additional to the
notification made. b) In the case of acts that are part of a procedure
selective or competitive concurrence of any kind. In this case, the call for
procedure must indicate the bulletin board or media where the
successive publications will be made, lacking validity those that are carried out in
different places”.

However, Law 30/1992, of November 26, in its article 61, relative to
the "Indication of notifications and publications", provides that: "If the competent body
appreciated that the notification by means of announcements or the publication of an act harms
legitimate rights or interests, it will be limited to publishing in the corresponding official gazette a
brief indication of the content of the act and the place where the interested parties may
appear, within the period established, to learn the full content of the
mentioned act and evidence of such knowledge.

In conclusion, the publication of the causes of exclusion will be appropriate to the Law
Organic 15/1999, if in the bases of the call it had been established how it would be done
public those admitted and excluded, making reference to the causes of exclusion. Nope
However, if the consulting body considers that the publication of the causes of exclusion
injures rights and legitimate interests may choose to apply the provisions of article 61
of Law 30/1992, previously transcribed”

Therefore, if in the selective procedures we understand that it has been provided, even if it is
Implicitly, consent to the processing of personal data will not be
the application of article 6.4 LOPD.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/24

From the previous section of this report it can be deduced that while advertising is
necessary for the correct development of the selection process, it must remain the same,
without it being possible to attend to the exercise of the right of opposition based on article 6.4
LOPD, for the reasons stated above. That is, at this point there is a law that, at
enshrine the principle of publicity, expressly provides for the processing of personal data
personal, without being able to stop the treatment to achieve the good end of the process
selective. And it is understood implicitly granted the consent for the treatment of
data for the publication in the selective procedure.

However, the law does not specify, to ensure compliance with the principle of publicity,
no specific medium, limiting itself to pointing out cases in which the publication will be made in the
BOE (fundamentally, call with the bases, list of excluded and the cause of
exclusion, list of approved and appointment in the selective admission procedure;
and call and resolution for the procedures for the provision of jobs). By
Therefore, there may be cases in which the form of publication that has been chosen may
be considered excessive. Thus, we can distinguish two cases:

a)
Phases of the call in which the legislation provides for some form of
specific post. We have already indicated specific cases in which the regulations provide for
publication in the Official State Gazette. In other words, in these cases, the regulations themselves
foresees phases of the selective procedures that must be published
in a certain medium. If, for example, the call, the bases, the list of excluded
and the list of approved are published in the BOE, there will be no obstacle for its
publication on the website of the convening body, since they already have a
top advertising.

b)
Phases of the call in which the legislation does not expressly provide for publication
in a specific medium. For example, the assessment of merits. In this case, it will be
application of article 59.6 of Law 30/1992 of November 26 on the Legal Regime of
Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure that establishes: "The
publication, under the terms of the following article, will replace the notification supplying its
same effects in the following cases: (...) b) When it comes to acts that are part of a
selective procedure or competitive concurrence of any kind. In this case, the
call for the procedure must indicate the notice board or means of
communication where the successive publications will be made, lacking validity the
take place in different places.

In other words, it is expressly provided that it is the call for the procedure that
Indicate the means of communication to be used. Furthermore, in this case it will be possible to
publication in the electronic office, either substituting or complementing the publication
on bulletin boards, since article 12 of Law 11/2007 of June 22,
Electronic Access of Citizens to Public Services states: "The publication of
acts and communications that, by legal or regulatory provision, must be published in
bulletin board or edicts may be replaced or complemented by its publication in the
electronic headquarters of the corresponding body.

However, the availability and accessibility of the electronic headquarters referred to in article
10.3 of Law 11/2007 cited does not imply that indexing can be universally accepted
of all personal data by search engines.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/24

In its Report of 04/04/2008, the Working Group of Article 29 of Directive 95/46/CE, of
October 25, 1995, of the European Parliament and of the Council, on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these, has analyzed the legal situation in relation to data protection
personal and Internet search engines, reaching the conclusion that the period of
conservation of personal data by said search engines should not exceed,
In general, the six-month term.

But it is that, even more so, in a report of this Agency of November 5, 2010 it was already indicated
that it was possible to limit the indexing by search engines of
personal data, since advertising "does not prevent the system from [not]
should establish mechanisms that prevent or hinder indiscriminate access to
information for purposes other than the knowledge by the interested party of the notification that is
practice through the edictal board”.

Thus, the possibility of prohibiting the indexing of information could be considered.
contained in the electronic headquarters related to personal data by motors
search. In this way, only those who directly access the edictal board or the
electronic headquarters will have knowledge of the information contained in them, without a
simple search of the data through a search engine may be enough to
access to the content of the personal data of those affected. And this does not imply that the
electronic office is not available or accessible, since we are limiting ourselves to indicating
that non-indexing by search engines can be considered, regardless of
that the data does appear published in the electronic headquarters that will act as a bulletin board
advertisements. In other words, we are referring to the use of technical tools and
non-robot type computer or any other type of technical and computer measures that
are appropriate aimed at avoiding said indexing of content with data of a personal nature
staff. This Agency has already ruled in this regard, as in the reports of 28
October and November 5, 2010 and February 17, 2011. In the second of them
We indicate: "Consequently, the exercise of the right of opposition obliges the
Administration acting to make an assessment of the personal situation of the affected,
considering whether it is appropriate to exempt said treatment. Although, in general, the
right of opposition will not exclude the publication of the act if it is legally required,
This Agency has been pointing out, as a solution in those cases in which it is exercised
the right to oppose the publication of an act in the Official State Gazette, the
adoption of technological measures to prevent indexing by search services”.

IV

Thirdly, the query asks if the eventual estimation of the right of opposition
could be resolved by publishing the candidates' DNI. On the one hand, we have already
affirmed that the right of opposition cannot be estimated for the sake of publicity and
transparency of the selection processes and of having lent, although
  be
implicitly, the consent for the treatment. But it is also what I know
would seek through the estimation of the right of opposition would be the suppression of the data of
the identity. The identity data is through the name and surnames, either through the
DNI, will always be essential to determine which candidate they are referring to
certain parameters (admission or not in the procedure, results...), so
It can never be considered as excessive data. And if the way of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/24

publish the data, all mispublished data should be removed, not just the
identification of the interested party.

On the other hand, we consider whether, in general, substitution is possible, in the different
phases of the selective procedure that are going to be published, of the name and surnames by the
DNI.

In general, the name and surnames may be replaced by the DIN since
it has enough value, by itself, to prove the identity of the people. The
The question now raised was already resolved in a report dated June 30, 2009 in the
following terms: ““…the [principle] of proportionality is especially relevant,
provided for in article 4.1 of the Organic Law, according to which "Personal data
They can only be collected for treatment, as well as subjecting them to said treatment,
when they are adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the scope and
specific, explicit and legitimate purposes for which they were obtained”.

From the application of this principle follows the need for the advertising of
the information just referred to extends only to the data
necessary to guarantee transparency in the selection process, without incorporating those that
could be excessive for the achievement of such purpose.

Article 1 of Royal Decree 1553/2005, of December 23, after indicating in its
section 1 that “the National Identity Document is a personal document and
non-transferable issued by the Ministry of the Interior that enjoys the protection that the
public and official documents grant the laws. Its holder will be obliged to the custody and
preservation of the same", it adds in its section 2 that "said Document has sufficient
value, by itself, to prove the identity and personal data of its owner that is contained in it.
consign, as well as the Spanish nationality of the same”.

Consequently, the indication of the number of the national identity document by
itself sufficiently identifies its owner, without the indication of the data being precise
of a personal nature contained therein, such as your name and surnames, so
the use of said number in the publication made by the consultant on its page
website would be respectful of the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, to which it refers
Royal Decree 248/2009.

In any case, it must be indicated, following what has been established in this matter by the Chamber of the
Contentious-Administrative of the National High Court, which does not mean that said
publication does not contain personal data, given that the number of the document,
given its character of unique identifier of the interested party, it has such character, but when included
said number without indication of the name and surnames of its owner is being given adequate
compliance with the principle of proportionality and submission to Organic Law 15/1999
advertising carried out, which is covered by article 11.2 a) of the Law
Organic 15/1999, in connection with article 55.2 of the Basic Employee Statute
public and the regulatory standards governing the selection processes.

Therefore, it would be possible to meet the request of the candidate who only wants to see
published the number of his DNI".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/24

SEVENTH: On 12/10/2019, a resolution proposal is issued with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with WARNING to the JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA (MINISTRY OF EDUCATION), with
NIF S4111001F, for a violation of article 5.1.c) and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with
Article 83.5 and 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

REPORT on the measures adopted to adapt the processing of data in the
internal selective processes in order not to violate article 5.1.c) and 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.”

EIGHTH: On 01/03/2019, allegations were received from the respondent indicating:

-

They will be adjusted when they publish personal data in selective processes throughout
provided in the seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD and the instructions for
interim application for notifications through announcements and publications of
administrative acts. “The processes developed in 2019 have already been subjected to these
directions." In addition, they will implement measures for access to information on
data in the treatment so that only the participating personnel access the information of
each selection process.

PROVEN FACTS

1) The claimant participated in the public announcement of the selection procedure
convened by the Junta de Andalucía by Order of 04/05/2018 for entry into the Corps
of Secondary School Teachers, Vocational Training Technical Teachers,
Teachers of Official Language Schools, Teachers of Plastic Arts and Design,
Masters of the Plastic Arts and Design Workshop and access to the Faculty of Professors of
Secondary Education and the Body of Teachers of Plastic Arts and Design, published in
the BOJA of 04-13-2018. In the same it was indicated in point 8.1.1 that "By resolution of
each court will publish the scores of the first test on the bulletin board
of the headquarters of the same, in that of the Territorial Delegation of Education in whose scope
locate the court and, for informational purposes only, on the web portal of the Ministry of
Education, and a copy of said qualifications must be sent to the corresponding
selection commission.” , and in 8.1.3 that in the same spaces and subjects,
scores for the different parts of the test.

two)

   The way to carry it out, in terms of publication, is implemented through
the publication of full DNI and name and surnames (appearing among others those of the
claimant) and the qualifications of the different parts of the exercises.

Thus, the exhibition of the physical headquarters of Court 1 of Seville is accredited:
On paper (07/03/2018 applicants who have not passed the first test, with the notes of

On paper, list of those who "have passed the second test" with the notes of part A

part A and part B

and part B, and

Paper list of “applicants who have passed the opposition phase of 07/20/2018”

with test notes 1, test 2 and OPPOSITION PHASE.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/24

The same lists were posted on the website of the Board's Education Department

from Andalusia.

It is unknown if the paper listings were in a room with specific access

for consultation or in another place of possible access for any person.

3) The page ***URL.2 offered, as of 08/01/2018, the possibility of being configured in this way,
enter the NIF, press send and have access by anyone to the query
individualized scale of merits, in this case for oppositions 2018, "Teaching
secondary, vocational training, official language schools and art schools,
provisional scale resolution”. Featured previously published listings with numbers
of complete DNis, you can consult all the merits alleged and valued by their
holder, but also by any person other than the affected party, upon knowing through
the website of the claimed DNI data through the qualification lists
of the participants.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

Law 39/2015 establishes in article 40.5

II

“Public Administrations may adopt the measures they consider
necessary for the protection of the personal data that appear in the resolutions and
administrative acts, when these are addressed to more than one interested party.”

Article 45 of the same rule highlights:

"1. The administrative acts will be published when so established by the
regulations governing each procedure or when advised by reasons of interest
public appreciated by the competent body.

In any case, the administrative acts will be published, supplying the
effects of the notification, in the following cases:

b) In the case of acts that are part of a selective procedure or
competitive competition of any kind. In this case, the call for the procedure
must indicate the medium where the successive publications will be made, lacking
validity those carried out in different places.

3. The publication of the acts will be carried out in the corresponding official gazette, according to which
be the Administration from which the act to be notified proceeds.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/24

4. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 44, the publication of acts and communications
that, by legal or regulatory provision, must be practiced on a bulletin board or
edicts, shall be understood to have been fulfilled by their publication in the corresponding Official Gazette.”

In accordance with the principle of data limitation in the treatment to the
merely indispensable, it is possible, in the first place, that the publication of each
result of the exercises that are being held, is limited to those affected with
for example, specific queries with attribution of keys and passwords that can be
generated with the presentation of the application, or through confirmation in mailings
electronic, among others. In this way, the publication, which concerns those who
participate and serves as a notification, it really fulfills the function of going to the specific
person/participant in the process, only interested in the transparent development of the
process.

Secondly, in the event that it were published on the web in open for any
person, it would not be necessary to include the double identifier DNI complete / name and
surnames.

The data minimization design has been embodied in the LOPDGDD, (BOE
12/6/2018) that in its “Seventh Additional Provision: on Identification of
interested in notifications through announcements and publications of acts
administrative” indicates:

1. When it is necessary to publish an administrative act that contains data
data of the affected party, he will be identified by his name and surnames,
adding four random numerical figures of the national identity document,
foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document. When the
publication refers to a plurality of affected parties, these random figures must
alternate.

When it comes to notification through advertisements, particularly in the
assumptions referred to in article 44 of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
affected exclusively by means of the complete number of your national identification document.
identity, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.

When the affected party lacks any of the documents mentioned in the
two preceding paragraphs, the affected party will be identified only by name and
surnames. In no case should the name and surnames be published jointly with
the complete number of the national identity document, identity number of
foreigner, passport or equivalent document.

2. In order to prevent risks for victims of gender violence, the Government will promote
the development of a collaboration protocol that defines safe procedures for
publication and notification of administrative acts, with the participation of the
competent in the matter.”

The provision has been the subject of a provisional recommendation until
moment in which the governing bodies and the competent public administrations
approve provisions for the application of the aforementioned Additional Provision

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/24

seventh. Its objective is to try to prevent the adoption of different formulas in
application of the aforementioned provision may give rise to the publication of numerical figures of
identification documents in different positions in each case, making it possible to
full recomposition of said documents.

For your interest, the aforementioned recommendation of 03/04/2019 is transcribed, entitled:
“GUIDANCE FOR THE PROVISIONAL APPLICATION OF THE PROVISION
ADDITIONAL SEVENTH OF THE LOPDGDD”

“In the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the Catalan Authority for
Data Protection, the Basque Data Protection Agency and the Council of
Transparency and Data Protection of Andalusia, multiple queries have been received
on the application of the provisions of the first paragraph of the first section of the
Seventh additional provision “Identification of the interested parties in the notifications by
means of announcements and publications of administrative acts” of the Organic Law 3/2018,
of 5/12, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights.

This circumstance has advised that, in order to facilitate a practical criterion,
said authorities propose guidelines for the provisional application of guarantees
of protection of the disclosure of the national identity document, number of
identity of foreigner, passport or equivalent document of the interested parties.

To do this, they have randomly selected the group of four numerical figures
to be published for the identification of those interested in the publications of
administrative acts. The procedure for the random determination of the
four numerical figures to be published of the identification code of an interested party
through the process of random selection in an opaque bag of a ball from among
five balls numbered from 1 to 5, held on 02/27/2019 at the AEPD.

The resulting ball was number 4, therefore:

The publication of national identity document, identity number of

foreigner, passport or equivalent document may be made in the following way:

• Given a DNI with format 12345678X, the digits will be published in the format
occupy the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh positions. In the example: ***4567**.

• Given a NIE with format L1234567X, the digits will be published in the format
occupy the positions, avoiding the first alphabetic character, fourth, fifth, sixth and
seventh. In the example: ****4567*.

• Given a passport with ABC123456 format, having only six figures, the numbers will be published.
digits that occupy the positions in the format, avoiding the three alphabetic characters,
third, fourth, fifth and sixth. In the example: *****3456.

• Given another type of identification, as long as that identification contains at least 7
numeric digits, these digits will be numbered from left to right, avoiding all
alphabetic characters, and the procedure of publishing those characters will be followed.
numbers that occupy the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh positions.

For example, in the case of an ID like XY12345678AB, the post

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/24

would be: *****4567***.
• If that type of identification is different from a passport and has less than 7 digits
numeric, all characters, including alphabets, will be numbered with the same number.
previous procedure and those who occupy the last four will be selected.
positions. For example, in the case of an ID such as ABCD123XY, the
publication would be: *****23XY.

• Alphabetic characters, and those numeric characters not selected for publication,
will be replaced by an asterisk for each position.”

Therefore, in addition to introducing the aforementioned measures in general, depending on
whether it should affect only one group, whether any act should be published or notified, and whether
considers that it will affect only a closed group of the collective, it must be taken into account
account in addition to these references, a special diligence for the possible identification or
identifiability through direct or indirect references other than name and
surnames or NIF and that allow the person to be identified.

Pretend, as the defendant states, that transparency and
general publicity exhibiting in open with full identifiability of listings of
admitted/excluded, or results of parts of the tests or exercises that are
rushing,
  at all times and open phase is not admissible. Result
disproportionate and collides with the principle of data minimization, given the purpose that
is intended, which is basically to serve as a notification system for those affected who
participate in the procedure, and contribute between them to transparency in the development
of the exercises. That access can be produced by any person outside the
applicants is an overexposure of data to third parties that lacks justification and
exceeds the purpose of the purpose of data processing of those affected.

 Therefore, the rest of the public, those who do not participate in these tests,
they lack a legitimate basis for access to the surname and name data together with the NIF
of each applicant and of each of the results of each test that forms the
selective process.

The way of proceeding of the accused should be modified in the sense exposed
in future actions together with the withdrawal of the data if they are published in
open/universal of the listings so that they do not remain for more than an adequate period and
Reasonable to the intended purpose that was in relation to processes of 2018.

The facts consisting of the exhibition and publication of all the joint data,
DNI, name and surnames and all qualifications on the physical boards of the venues and on the
website of the Board, by the data controller, MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA), suppose a violation of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that provides:

“Personal data will be:
b) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”);

This principle is not new, since the LOPD contained similar wording

pointing out:

Article 4.1: “Personal data may only be collected for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/24

treatment, as well as subjecting them to said treatment, when appropriate, pertinent
and not excessive in relation to the scope and purposes determined, explicit and
legitimate for which they have been obtained.”

In selection procedures, the principles of publicity and transparency are
essential because they are the basis of equality, merit and ability in access to
posts. The norm refers to advertising on procedures and development of exercises.

Publicity means, in the first place, that of the call, which is published in the
BOE, Official Gazette or corresponding electronic headquarters, for general knowledge and access
public to its content and bases.

Regarding the object of the matter itself denounced, once the
call and received the applications for participation in it, the process would begin
of competitive concurrence, which as the word says, must be predicated of and for all
members of the group who aspire to pass the tests convened, who compete in
merits and ability against each other.

 In the call and in the bases the detail of what is going to be exposed is not reflected
on the web in terms of the lists of admitted, excluded etc., if it is going to be only the NIF, this
with the name and surname etc., or if the publication will be produced only for those affected, only
indicates that it will be published. In this sense, it is always necessary to opt for the data
minimum necessary to achieve its goal, and for the group affected.

Bearing in mind that once the announcement and the bases have been published, the procedures
following are going to affect a specific, determined and qualified circle that are the
applicants, being the exposure of data within and for the members of said circle
adequate, proportionate and consistent with its purpose, becomes disproportionate
when said data is visible to everyone, since it is not necessary for the
purpose of publicity and transparency that they know it. Although they are obtained from
in accordance with the provisions of the call, for the management of the process, among which is
applicable transparency for the participants or the right of access to the data for the
interested, it must be assessed that the call, although it does not indicate the form and manner in which
that the data were published, it would be necessary in any case to affect only the participants in
the process and to publish as little data as possible. Not because the call
establish publication on boards or web is authorized to any extent of exposure
of data and in any condition of generalized access.

The exposure of the data begins in June 2018 and from that date during the
During the process, there was no news of the accredited date on which the listings were removed.
of the web and of the physical spaces, being able to remain the infraction during all that
period. Although the information presented by the respondent was prior to the entry into
force that modifies the system of publication of announcements in official newspapers by the
LOPDDGG, the truth

Although the commented judgment indicates that "the consent of the
those persons who participate in a competitive bidding procedure for the
treatment of the qualifications obtained in said procedure and this as a guarantee and
requirement of the other participants to ensure the cleanliness and impartiality of the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/24

procedure in which they attend. (...) what is being safeguarded is for a circle
well predefined of participants, so not any way to publish the data as
has happened in this claim can be considered appropriate to the principles of the regulation
of the data minimization principle. It is not in the public interest to know the
qualifications of each test that forms the selective process relating name and
surnames and full ID. If it were proportionate that only those affected had said
access, given also that it is not the final qualification, but the process procedures.

It should be noted that consent does not play a decisive role in the treatment
of data when it is the public administration, which holds the management of interests
general, calls selective processes. Furthermore, the Regulation itself
general data protection policy shows that the consent of the affected party does not
must constitute the legal basis of the treatment in certain cases. Thus, the
Recital 42 states in its last sentence that "Consent should not be considered
freely provided when the interested party does not enjoy true or free choice or cannot
refuse or withdraw their consent without prejudice” and recital 43 adds
that “To ensure that consent has been freely given, it should not constitute
a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data in a case
in which there is a clear imbalance between the interested party and the person responsible for the
treatment, in particular when said controller is a public authority and is therefore
so unlikely that consent was freely given in all the circumstances
of that particular situation. The legitimate basis for the treatment of qualifications would not be
The consent.

Regarding the justification that the data are from a selective process of
competitive concurrence, to which the principle of transparency is applied, being able to
deduce a conflict with the data protection of its owners, due to the superiority of the
constitutional principle of transparency and objectivity, it must be indicated:

-Given the technical situation in which the data is being processed, it could be deduced that the
requirement to reproduce all these data at any stage of the process to others
participants to ensure the fairness and impartiality of the procedure in which
concur is not given only for these, but they are communicated to any person outside the
procedure that wants to enter said website or circulate through the space of the advertisements and
carry out a complete tracking of identification and tests and qualifications obtained. Yes to
This is added to the fact that each year the process has been repeated, data could be obtained that
they are not really necessary for non-participants in the concurrency process.

- Although transparency would be desirable for the group of participants in the process, in
any case, especially provisional admissions, also listings should be removed
when they have had their effects, stating that they are pure formal acts, they must not
continue to appear indefinitely

-Another possibility is that if it is going to be for the knowledge of any person, they will reduce

the data, not putting the complete DNI.

The guarantee of publicity and transparency of the competitive process on the right to
data protection is not achieved by the general publication of all data
in each open process, because technology can also allow only those affected
be those who in any case can know the identity, with the appropriate data and
necessary for the purpose in question.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/24

If, in addition, someone who is not interested in not participating in the process would like to access some
aspect of the procedure, would be covered by the right of access, prior accreditation
that it holds an interest worthy of protection.

The knowledge in each exercise that forms the process of all the data with the DNI
whole and the notes of the phases that make up the procedure to any person is
excessive and disproportionate, when transparency is related to the participants in
the process, with the process itself and with the result of the final phase. It is not being valued
publication of the final results, is the internal process of developing the exercises,
in which the data appears in each and every one of the phases for the entire public
full name and surnames and NIF.

Since the publication of the grades obtained is lawful, it is necessary to find a way that
minimize the data according to the proportionality and necessity of the purpose in accordance with the
indicated. One could think of a virtual classroom only accessible to the participants in the
process, not with access to all the data but to the necessary ones. It must, on the other hand,
The principles contained in article 5 of the RGPD must be respected in any case, especially
those of limitation of the purpose, minimization of data, limitation of the term of conservation,
integrity and confidentiality, making the publication in a way that supposes the least
interference in the rights and freedoms of the interested parties, which excludes the possibility of a
widespread knowledge of qualifications, as might occur in the event that
proceed to publication on the internet.

Regarding the exhibition on the notice boards of the center, it can be done
provided that they are not in common areas of the centers, that it is guaranteed that the
access to them is restricted to said persons and measures are adopted
necessary to prevent its public knowledge by those who lack interest in it.

III

The facts consisting of the configuration on the web page of the claimed party
consultation of the merits through the DNI, by the data controller,
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA), suppose an infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that provides:

“Personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures
appropriate ("integrity and confidentiality").

Starting from the exposure of the data of the participants in the selection process
with the complete NIF, it does not seem appropriate to create a
box to consult the scale of merits based on the introduction of the NIF data.

  The configuration of the access menu to the "merits scale" box was as follows. To the
know the NIF, anyone can find out and access the scale of the
participant points. It is not that those affected or participants in the process
can see the scale, which would be lawful, but any person, who, as has been

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/24

observed can previously access to consult in the lists of admitted and
qualifications the complete DNIS.

Since the initial agreement it is unknown if the claim has changed that
configuration to suit the confidential treatment that requires that only those by whom
holders of their DNI consult their own data, and it is not possible to collect data
information about people.

The information does not appear secure if the DNI is imposed as a query criterion,
when they have previously been published, allowing third parties to consult the
be the DNI data a weak means of access, also considering that the claimed party has
been publishing in different selective processes.

The NIF query data in said box does not offer security as it can be a data

that today can be known with not much difficulty.

IV

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

a)

sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

In this sense, there is a change in the way of publishing the data by
of the one claimed and that the scale consultation box does not allow to consult by DNI the
data.

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD indicates: “Infringements considered very serious

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

a)
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/24

In this sense, article 77.2 of the LOPGDD, indicates:

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning
to them with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that are not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and order the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority
it will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and accredited the

existence of violations

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a sanction of WARNING to the JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA
(MINISTRY OF EDUCATION), with NIF S4111001F, for an infraction of article 5.1.c)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/24

of the RGPD, and another infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with article
83.5 a) of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the JUNTA DE ANDALUCIA (MINISTRY
OF EDUCATION).

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry
of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

