DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998  

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE 

To:  Digivo Media Limited 
 

 

 

 

Of:  Office One, 1 Coldbath Square, London, EC1R 5HL 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
 
issue Digivo Media Limited (“Digivo”) with an enforcement notice under 
 
section 40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is being 
issued because of a serious contravention of Regulation 22 of the 
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 
(“PECR”). 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Digivo, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
Registration Number: 12806848) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have transmitted and instigated the transmission of 
unsolicited communications by means of electronic mail to individual 
 
subscribers for the purposes of direct marketing contrary to regulation 
22 of PECR. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
4. 
 
 

Regulation 22 of PECR states: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“(1) This regulation applies to the transmission of unsolicited 
  
 
communications by means of electronic mail to individual 
 
subscribers. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

(2)  Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3), a person 
 
shall neither transmit, nor instigate the transmission of, unsolicited 
 
communications for the purposes of direct marketing by means of 
 
electronic mail unless the recipient of the electronic mail has 
 
previously notified the sender that he consents for the time being 
 
 
to such communications being sent by, or at the instigation of, the 
 
 
 
sender. 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3)  A person may send or instigate the sending of electronic mail for 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the purposes of direct marketing where— 
  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 
 

 
of that electronic mail in the course of the sale or 
 
negotiations for the sale of a product or service to that 
 
recipient; 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) the direct marketing is in respect of that person’s similar 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products and services only; and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   
 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 
 
 

  
(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 
 
the refusal) the use of his contact details for the purposes 
 
of such direct marketing, at the time that the details were 
 
initially collected, and, where he did not initially refuse the 
 
use of the details, at the time of each subsequent 
 
communication. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention of 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph (2).” 
 

 

 

2 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
5. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 
 
marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 
 
or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
 
PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6. 
 

7. 
 

 
8. 
 

9. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

   
 

From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR  has been defined by reference 
 
to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 
 
 
the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 
 
 
Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 
 
definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 
 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 
 
wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 
 
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 
 
to him or her”. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
   
 

 
 
A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
 
 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 
 
voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 
 
 
communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
 
April 2016 (“GDPR”)  as it forms part of the  law  of England and  Wales, Scotland  and  Northern Ireland  by virtue 
 
  
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 
 
 
includes messages sent using a short message service”. 
 
 

   
 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.  The term "soft opt-in" is used to describe the rule set out in in 
 
 

Regulation 22(3) of PECR. In essence, an organisation may be able to 
 
e-mail its existing customers even if they haven't specifically consented 
 
to electronic mail. The soft opt-in rule can only be relied upon by the 
 
 
organisation that collected the contact details. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
11.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercisable by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and 
 
 
extended for the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12.  Section 40(1)(a) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

   
 
 

provides that if the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has 
 
contravened or is contravening any of the requirements of the 
 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring 
 
him to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to 
 
refrain from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps 
 
 
as are so specified. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
 
rights. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

The contravention 
 
 

15.  The Commissioner finds that Digivo contravened regulation 22 of PECR. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.  Between 24 March 2021 and 7 September 2021 Digivo transmitted and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

instigated the transmission of 479,017 direct marketing messages 
 
sent, contrary to regulation 22 of PECR, of which 415,041 were 
 
received by subscribers. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 
18.  The Commissioner finds that Digivo, as the sender and instigator of the 
 

 
direct marketing, is required to ensure that it is acting in compliance 
 
with the requirements of regulation 22 of PECR, and to ensure that 
 
valid consent to send those messages had been acquired. 
  

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
   

   
 

 
19.  For consent to be valid it is required to be “freely given”, by which it 
   
follows that if consent to marketing is a condition of subscribing to a 
   
service, the organisation will have to demonstrate how the consent can 
 
 
be said to have been given freely. Digivo relied on a statement which 
 
must be ticked to proceed with the application, meaning that the 
 
 
consent obtained is not freely given. 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
20.  Consent is also required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 
 
organisation, that will be sending it. In this instance, the statement 
 
asks individuals to consent to receiving email, telephone, and SMS, 
 
with no option to pick between the communication channels. This 
 
means the consent obtained by Digivo is not specific. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
21.  Consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not understand what 
 
they are consenting to. Organisations should therefore always ensure 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
   

that the language used is clear, easy to understand, and not hidden 
 
away in a privacy policy or small print. Consent will not be valid if 
   
individuals are asked to agree to receive marketing from “similar 
 
organisations”, “partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar 
 
generic description. In this instance, the statement does not reference 
 
marketing at all and only states that individuals will be contacted by 
 
third party debt solution providers, not that the individual will receive 
 
further contact from Digivo, so the consent obtained is not informed. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the evidence he has seen 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that Digivo did not have the necessary valid consent for the 415,041 
 
direct marketing messages received by individual subscribers. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
23.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

section 40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when 
 
 
deciding whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any 
 
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage. The 
 
 
Commissioner has decided that it is unlikely that damage has been 
 
caused in this instance. 
 
 

 
 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.  In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hereby gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under 
 
section 40 of the DPA, he requires Digivo to take the steps 
 
 
specified in Annex 1 of this Notice. 
 
 
 
Right of Appeal 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
25.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Information Rights), part of the General Regulatory Chamber. 
  
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
Dated the 3rd  day of October 2023 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Andy Curry 
  
Head of Investigations 
  
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX  1  
 

TERMS  OF  THE  ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE  

Digivo shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

  Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3) of 
 
 

 
regulation 22 of PECR, neither transmit, nor instigate the 
 
transmission of, unsolicited communications for the purposes of 
 
direct marketing by means of electronic mail unless the recipient of 
 
the electronic mail has previously notified Digivo  that he clearly and 
 
 
specifically consents for the time being to such communications 
 
being sent by, or at the instigation of, Digivo. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

8 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX  2  
 

RIGHTS  OF  APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF  THE  COMMISSIONER  

 

 
1. 
 

 
2. 
 
 

 

3. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon 
 
whom an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
 
 
First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the 
 
notice. 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 
accordance with the law; or 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
 
the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised his discretion 
 
differently, 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
 

 
b) 
 

 

 

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner.  In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 

 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
 
 
at the following address: 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
                 
                 
                 
 

 

 

 

 
 

General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
 
LE1 8DJ 
  

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: 
 

grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

 

 

 

9 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 
 
 

 
days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
4. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier  Tribunal 
 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal 
 
Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 
 
 
 
2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 
 

