

In the organization of the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce - Varaždin County Chamber, on July 5, 2022, a free workshop "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation" was held in the premises of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Varaždin, intended for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. .
During the welcome speech, the Director of the Agency, Zdravko Vukić, pointed out that the GDPR is not a burden or an obstacle, but an opportunity for entrepreneurs to improve their business and make better use of the personal data they collect. "Legal and transparent processing of personal data provides the opportunity to gain an advantage on the market over competitors, because in today's digital age it is very important for consumers to know that the data they provide to organizations for use is safe and protected," said director Vukić and wished all those present success in further work.
The experts of the Personal Data Protection Agency pointed out to the entrepreneurs their obligations and the key steps that need to be taken in order to harmonize their business with the legislative framework for the protection of personal data. The first and most important step when harmonizing with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation is informing about all obligations, which the Agency helps by holding such workshops. It is crucial that everyone who processes personal data be well informed about their obligations, coordinate their operations and thus avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Data Protection Regulation, and therefore risk high fines.
In the first part of the workshop, participants were introduced to the key terms of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as who is the manager and processor, what are the legal bases for personal data processing, what is the privacy policy, and the like. Understanding the basic terms of the Regulation is essential in order for entrepreneurs, as data controllers, to properly process personal data.
Technical and organizational measures for the protection of personal data, why a data protection officer is important, but also what to do in the event of a personal data breach, are just some of the topics covered during the second part of the workshop. In addition, the Agency's experts answered the questions of entrepreneurs and in that way provided them with concrete help when complying with the GDPR.
This workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency as part of the ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs) project, co-financed by the EU program "Rights, Equality and Citizenship", and the project is implemented with the aim of providing support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. entrepreneurs and craftsmen when harmonizing business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.
You can find out more about the project at the link https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/.

























