EU proposal: Authorities should have access to encryption for online services

Posted by Press Office | November 10, 2020 | Current reports, data protection, press releases, press reviews, slider




EU proposal: Authorities should have access to encryption for online services.
LfDI Brink: "With the proposal, the European Union is placing citizens under general suspicion."
The governments of the European Union want to overturn the encryption of online services. Online service providers should work with authorities and give them access to encrypted communication. That's what the EU anti-terrorist coordinator proposed to European governments. After an extremely short period of deliberation, this proposal is now to be passed into legislation. "heise online" reported on this yesterday and referred to a secret draft of a planned declaration by the EU Council of Ministers, which the Austrian Broadcasting Corporation published (https://fm4.orf.at/stories/3008930/). The EU anti-terrorist coordinator's proposal comes in the middle of the German Council Presidency.
The anti-terror coordinator's proposal is justified by the fact that the relationship between the protection of communication and the access options of authorities (“competent authorities”) should be rebalanced. In fact, this means that in order to trace the communication of people who potentially endanger the security of a state, all citizens should lose their right to be safe from state access to online services such as Whatsapp, Threema or Signal. With this procedure, the European states gain access to all online communication and thus end the confidentiality of our communication.
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Stefan Brink: “The European Union – under the German Presidency – has placed 450 million citizens under general suspicion and declared us all to be “endangerers to security”. At first, security politicians only wanted access to our online communication in exceptional cases. Now the exception should become the rule. The attempt to potentially better protect citizens by abolishing civil rights undermines any trust in government action.” Deficits in criminal prosecution cannot be compensated for by relativizing civil rights, Brink continued. Stick to it: whoever gives up freedom in favor of security ultimately loses both.
View this press release as a PDF document.

For questions you can contact us on the telephone number
0711/615541-23 and by email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de
Further information on data protection and freedom of information can be found on the Internet at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.




Share:




 

.post-footer .rating-stars #rated-stars img.star-on,
.post-footer .rating-stars #rating-stars img.star-on {
background-color: #868682;
}






Previous Podcast Data Freedom - Episode 4: Corona warning app and practical test MS Office 365 in schools

Next New Corona wave requires changes in the educational offer