GZ: DSB-D123.627/0003-DSB/2018 from 2.1.2019

 

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and e-mail addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc.,
as well as their initials and abbreviations can be used for pseudonymization reasons
be abbreviated and/or modified. Obvious spelling, grammar and
Punctuation errors have been corrected.]
 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on Walter A***'s data protection complaint

(Appellant) of October 17, 2018 against N***travel (Respondent)

for violation of the right to information and violation of the conditions for the

Legality of consent as follows:

1. The complaint about a violation of the right to information is dismissed.

2. Complaint about breach of legality of consent

is rejected.

3. The complaint regarding the alleged violation of the information obligation

rejected.

Legal basis: Section 13 (3), Section 13 (8), Section 38a, Section 73 (1) General

Administrative Procedures Act 1991 – AVG, Federal Law Gazette 51/1991, as amended, Section 24 Paragraph 2, Section 24

Para. 6 and 10 Data Protection Act – DSG, Federal Law Gazette 165/1999, as amended; Art. 15, Art. 56 para. 1,

Art. 77 Para. 1 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), L119 S.1, as amended;

REASON

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

With the procedural submission dated October 17, 2018, the complainant led

from receiving unwanted advertising from the "N***travel company" and that this

would by no means be legal, since he never gave his consent to advertising emails

receive.

With the following submission of November 15, 2018, the complainant stated that he had

received an e-mail after which within the group of companies, which the

designated Respondent, a data transfer would have taken place

and that he does not see why within two weeks (as in the letter

required) must object to the data transfer.

With completion GZ: DSB-D123.627/0003-DSB/2018 of November 20, 2018 demanded the

Data Protection Authority to correct deficiencies, particularly those deemed violated

rights and to designate a clear respondent.

With a submission dated November 25, 2018, the complainant submitted further emails

Correspondence, including an email dated November 25, 2018, in which at

Information was requested and stated that he named the respondent as N***travel

B.V. and see both the right to information in accordance with Art. 15 GDPR and the right

for information when collecting the data from the data subject in accordance with Art. 13

GDPR violated. Furthermore, against the provisions of Art. 7 regarding the

conditions for consent have been violated.

B. Findings of Facts

With a submission of October 17, the complainant made a complaint against

N***travel B.V. due to a violation of the right to information. A

The request for information was not addressed to the respondent at this time.

The Respondent has branches in several Member States

European Union.

 
Evidence assessment:

Evidence was gathered through the complainant's submissions and through a

Official research on the homepage https://n***travel.at/datenschutzerklaerung.

C. In legal terms it follows that:

Regarding point 1:

The complainant alleges a violation of the right to information without a den

to have made a request for information that is the subject of the proceedings.

The object of the data protection complaints procedure is

constitutive complaint of the complainant formed. Appropriate is in one

Procedure where formal deficiencies according to § 13 Abs. 3 AVG by the competent authority

are eliminated, the procedural input which duly improved

would.

The subject of the proceedings in the first point of the ruling is the alleged infringement in

right to information. At the time the complaint was lodged, there was no

Request for information has been made to the designated respondent. Article 15

GDPR is conceptually a right that requires an application and requires a limine to the

designated Respondent received request.

Since only remediable defects can be assigned to an order in accordance with Section 13 (3) AVG

are accessible, in the case of defects that cannot be rectified, the request is made

to be dismissed due to the lack of entitlement to lodge a complaint. After

ed. Jurisdiction on remediable or non-remediable defects must be distinguished as to whether

the circumstance to be proven is missing at the relevant time (this case is not

remediable defect) or whether it is merely based on proof of an already existing one

circumstance is lacking (in the latter case the defect can be remedied; cf. the published B of

November 11, 2015, Ra 2015/04/0077, with further references).

Subsequent submission of a data protection request for information to the

designated respondent does not lead to the healing of the irremediable defect,

that the complainant in relation to the alleged facts at the time of

filing the complaint lacked legitimacy, but it can be assumed that

that there is another circumstance that is not identical to the subject of the proceedings

(Manual reference: VwGH December 21, 1987, 87/10/0051).

The complaint regarding the alleged violation of the right to information was

to be dismissed accordingly.

Regarding point 2:

The complainant subsumes the lack of information about the proof of a

In his opinion, the necessary consent under Art. 7 GDPR:

A complaint must meet the formal requirements of § 24 DSG. According to § 13

Section 3 General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG), Federal Law Gazette No. 51/1991 as amended.

Deficiencies in written submissions do not authorize the authority to reject them. the

Rather, the authority shall promptly and ex officio arrange for their rectification

can instruct the intervener to remedy the defect within a reasonable period of time

apply with the effect that the attachment after the unsuccessful expiration of this period

is rejected. If the defect is remedied in good time, the attachment shall be deemed to have been made

originally introduced correctly.

With the order to remedy defects dated November 20, 2018, the data protection authority requested

on the complainant to rectify specified formal deficiencies,

in particular to indicate the rights that he considers to have been infringed.

This order to rectify defects was made within the set period

Paragraph 2 is not sufficiently fulfilled by the complainant not referring to a

subjective right, which is specified by § 1 DSG and Chapter III DSGVO,

based, but on Art. 7 "Consent conditions". § 24 Para. 2 Z 2 DSG speaks

of a right deemed infringed. The provision referred to by the complainant

does not standardize any law, but merely certain prerequisites that

justification for data processing. From the one mentioned

No subjective right can be derived per se, which is why after

the wording of § 24 Para. 2 Z 2 DSG the requirement that the violated

deemed right must be designated is not fulfilled.

The complaint regarding a violation of the law pursuant to Art. 7 GDPR was therefore

to be rejected according to § 13 para. 3 AVG.

Regarding point 3:

The Respondent referred to N***travel B.V. as the subject of the proceedings

Respondent.

Notwithstanding the correspondence from which the complainant already

should have shown that N***travel B.V. not for data processing

Responsible within the meaning of Art. 24 GDPR and therefore not the one according to § 24 Para. 2

Z. 2 DSG is the complainant to be designated, is already clear from the

N***travel privacy statement that N***travel B.V. not responsible for the

alleged violation of the information obligations is: "C*** Ltd. is a British company

headquartered in London and operates the "n***travel.at" website.

The Administrative Court represents in its case law, which is also relevant here

to the DSG 2000 that the alleged legal infringement is attributable to the legal entity

must be (finding of June 26, 2018, Ra 2017/04/0032). When evaluating

In principle, the content of the attachment is decisive for party attachments (knowledge of the

Administrative Court of February 10, 1998, 97/04/0231), an official "reinterpretation" is coming

therefore out of the question.

It was therefore also an investigation as to whether the sole responsibility of

Austrian data protection authority, or a leading authority of one

other supervisory authority is not to initiate but to reject according to the verdict.

