GZ: DSB-D202.207/0001-DSB/2018 from 7.6.2018

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and e-mail addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc.,
as well as their initials and abbreviations can be used for pseudonymization reasons
be abbreviated and/or modified. Obvious spelling, grammar and
Punctuation errors have been corrected.]

 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on the application of the N***

Forschungsgesellschaft m.b.H. (Applicant) of May 18, 2018 for the granting of a

Approval according to § 7 paragraph 3 DSG as follows:

I. Approval is granted to the applicant for the purposes of the research project

"Analysis of the road surface and the street space" personal

to determine and evaluate image data.

II. To protect the legitimate interests of those affected, the following

Conditions granted:

a) The image resolution is to be selected in such a way that, if possible, neither license plates nor

Faces of the persons concerned are recognizable. Personal Data

are only used to the extent necessary for the viewed databases

processed for the purposes of the research project in question;

b) access to the records containing personal data is through the

Applicant in an appropriate manner in accordance with Article 32 (1) GDPR

secured, e.g. by locking (in the case of recordings on paper) or by

Password (for electronic records);

c) the insight into and the evaluation of the recorded personal data

Image data may only be used by specific, trained persons who have been informed about § 6 DSG

employees of the applicant, their reliability

is guaranteed in handling data in accordance with Section 6 (3) DSG;

d) the recorded image data are as soon as they are relevant to the subject

research project are no longer required, but in any case with the conclusion of the

research project.

e) the image data may only be published in an anonymous form.

III. According to § 78 of the General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG), BGBl.

No. 51/1991 as amended, in conjunction with Sections 1, 3, Paragraph 1 and TP 1

Federal Administrative Tax Ordinance 1983, BGBl. No. 24 as amended (BVwAbgV), has the

Applicant an administrative fee of

6.50 euros

to pay.

Legal basis: Article 7 paragraph 2 no. 3 and paragraph 3 and Article 69 paragraph 3 of the Data Protection Act

(DSG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999 as amended, and Section 78 of the General

Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG), Federal Law Gazette No. 51/1991 as amended, in conjunction with §§ 1, 3 Paragraph 1

and TP 1 of the Federal Administrative Tax Ordinance 1983 (BVwAbgV), BGBl. No. 24

idgF.

REASON

A. Submissions of the Applicant

The applicant submitted an application for approval on May 18, 2018

according to § 46 paragraph 3 DSG 2000, now § 7 paragraph 3 DSG. As a non-university institution

research key infrastructure issues of the future. One of those topics would be the

Analysis of the road surface in terms of grip, flatness, surface damage

and cracks. The routing parameters such as curve radii and the

Lateral and longitudinal slope of great interest, because these parameters in combination with

road condition data provides a crucial indication of road safety

of a route section would give.

The exact exploration of the street surface or the street space should

other technical measuring devices can also be carried out by means of image recording. the

Image recording serves to identify objects in the street space (in particular traffic signs

and floor markings) in order to assess whether these

– properly installed from the point of view of traffic safety

would be. The street space should be used for the metrological recording of objects using two

forward-facing stereo cameras mounted left and right on the driver's cab

are recorded. In addition, for the documentation of objects in the street space

freely orientable side cameras (up to four) and a rear camera are used

come. One image per camera for every 2 meters of distance covered

be included. The resolution of all images would be 1920 x 1080 pixels

be.

For investigating the nature of the road and detecting objects accurately

in the street space there would be traffic signs in and against the direction of travel, text content

of additional boards, kilometer boards, floor markings, restraint devices and

Noise protection devices of interest. It would be in the course of capturing the image data

unavoidable to also detect other road users. The determination more accurate

Position data of objects in the street space in a way other than by means of

Image data processing in which the collection of personal data is excluded

would not be possible due to the public accessibility of the streets. The identity

the road user is also not important for the applicant. In none

case, an attempt would be made to identify other road users. the

The measurement data would be recorded using a high-performance measurement vehicle ("***CAR")

respectively. This special vehicle would be optically clear as a measuring or

Research vehicle recognizable and would data subjects about the processing

inform.

Obtaining the consent of road users located in the reception area

of the "***CAR" could not be made without a very

to put in a lot of effort. The data collection provides an objective database for the

Exploration of the street condition and objects in the street space and ledge

thereby making an essential contribution to maintaining and increasing road safety

in Austria. The public interest in the requested use would therefore be

given. In addition, the data transmission by the "*** CAR" or the

Subsequent processing of the data exclusively by trained persons who have

Data secrecy enlightened employees are carried out in the field of

road safety research. Because those for research purposes

required data would be determined themselves, would be a declaration according to § 46

Para. 3a DSG 2000 (comment by clerk: now § 7 para. 4 DSG) not

necessary.

B. Findings of Facts

The data protection authority puts the above under A. on file

documented factual basis of their decision.

D. In legal terms it follows that:

1. Image data as personal data

According to § 69 para. 3 DSG, the present procedure is based on the provisions of the

DSG and the GDPR.

The former data protection commission has already stated several times that image data

(identifiable) personal data (see, for example, the statements on

former § 4 Z DSG 2000 in the decision of the DSK of January 21, 2009,

GZ K121.425/0003-DSK/2009). These considerations can also be found in Art. 4 Z 1

move GDPR. The GDPR is therefore relevant. Simultaneously lies with these

Image data but no processing of special categories of personal data iSd

Art. 9 GDPR (cf. the statements on the former § 4 Z 2 DSG 2000 den

DSK decision of April 10, 2013, GZ K202.120/0002-DSK/2013).

Image data are now to be determined and evaluated for scientific purposes. the

Use of personal data for scientific research purposes

and statistics is subject to the special provision of § 7 DSG (and is not based on the

§§ 12 and 13 DSG, which regulate image processing for other purposes). From the

established facts, it follows that the requirements of § 7 para. 1 and

Para. 2 Z 1 and Z 2 are not available, so that the planned use of data is only due to

an approval by the data protection authority in accordance with § 7 para. 2 no. 3 in conjunction with para. 3

DSG can take place.

2. Prerequisites for the approval according to § 7 paragraph 3 DSG

The use of personal data for scientific purposes is permitted in accordance with Section 7

Para. 3 DSG is permissible if the data protection authority has given its approval for this

is present, whereby according to para. 3 leg. cit. the following requirements for the granting of the

Approval must be given:

1. Obtaining the consent of the persons concerned if they cannot be reached

is impossible or otherwise involves a disproportionate effort and

2. there is a public interest in the requested use and

3. the professional suitability of the applicant is credibly demonstrated.

 

3. In the matter

Ad 1): Those affected are a group of people whose current

address for the applicant or only with disproportionate effort

would determine. Added to this is the fact that it may also be

Motorists from abroad can act. Obtaining consent is therefore part

impossible, sometimes it would at best be possible with disproportionate effort, so that

the requirements according to § 7 para. 3 Z 1 DSG are met (cf. the decision of the

Data Protection Authority of August 10, 2015, GZ DSB-202.152/0002-DSB/2015).

Ad 2): The applicant has the public interest (maintenance and increase of

road safety) in the application applied for. the

former data protection commission has already stated that a research project,

which promotes road safety, is in the public interest (cf

DSK decision of April 10, 2013, GZ K202.120/0002-DSK/2013).

Ad 3): The applicant uses to carry out the research project

exclusively trained employees who work in the field of road safety

research and therefore have expertise in this field, which is why the

The requirement of § 7 Para. 3 Z 3 DSG is met.

The conditions imposed serve to ensure data security when using the data and

Ensuring data secrecy or data security measures.

The cost of the ruling (administrative fee) is based on the quoted

provisions. Granting permission to use data for

scientific research and statistics is not exempt from the fee and

Tax exemption clause of Section 69 (6) DSG.

[abbreviated here, fee notification]

Thus, the decision had to be made accordingly.

