 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA  

PROTECTION REGULATION  

  

 REPRIMAND  

  

TO: Bank Of Ireland (UK) PLC (BOI)  

OF: Bowbells House   

   1 Bread Street  

      London  
      EC4M 9BE  

  

  

1.1  The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to BOI in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the 
UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect 
of certain infringements of the UK GDPR.    

  
The reprimand  
  

1.2  The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to BOI in 

respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR.  

•  Article 5 (1)(d) which states personal data shall be 

accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; every 
reasonable step must be taken to ensure that personal 
data that are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes 
for which they are process, are erased or rectified without 
delay (‘accuracy’).     

•  Article 5 (2) which states the controller shall be 

responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance 
with, paragraph 1 (‘accountability’).      

  

1.3  The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out 

below.   

  

1.4  BOI’s parent company, BOI Group plc, was established in 

1783 and is headquartered in Dublin, while BOI is a separate 
UK based company incorporated in 2009.  

  

1  

  

  

1.5  As part of its financial obligations BOI is required to and 

routinely reports to credit reference agencies (CRA) providing 
accurate information on data subjects’ accounts including 
arrears status. The system calculates and reports the latest 
status including the balance owed and any default notices.   

  
1.6  Following two data subjects raising disputes with a CRA, BOI 

became aware that it had sent inaccurate data to a CRA which 
had affected those data subject’s credit profiles. Further 
internal investigation found that inaccurate data had also 
been sent to CRA for another 3,282 data subjects based in 
the UK between 2018 and 2020.  

  
1.7  The investigation found that inaccurate data had only been 

sent to CRA’s in relation to defaulted data subject’s loan 
accounts where the account had been sold to debt collectors. 
This had the potential to lead to unfair refusal or granting of 
credit to data subjects.  

  
1.8  Whilst data subject’s personal data was correctly recorded and 

had not been compromised, the incorrect recording of a data 
subject’s default loan status along with an incorrect 
outstanding balance led to inaccurate personal data being 
incorrectly held on their account.  

   

1.9  As the selling of accounts was infrequent, BOI explained it 

operated a manual system and staff were required to type the 
appropriate system reference into the status field which would 
indicate the loan had been sold. Failure to do this resulted in 
the loan being shown as being owned by BOI with an 
outstanding balance. In the majority of cases the purchaser of 
the debt also reported the outstanding balance, which 
appeared on the data subject’s account and therefore was 
recorded on the data subject’s credit profile twice – a double 
default.   

  
1.10  BOI explained whilst it had risk management measures in 

place for debt sales, the specific issue relating to the debt sold 
flag was not included as a granular risk. No specific assurance 
reviews or audits took place in relation to the debt sales flag.  

  

  

2  

1.11  BOI further explained that data subject’s accounts affected in 
2019 had been rectified by a local fix. However, BOI could not 
provide any documentary evidence, or an explanation as to 
why the incident was not escalated internally at the time. It 
also couldn’t explain why a historic check on previous 
accounts was not carried out to identify any inaccuracies or 
why new processes were not put in place to prevent any 
future errors. 

 
1.12  It should be noted that due to the nature of credit scoring and 

different factors involved which contribute to a data subject’s 
credit scoring, it would be impossible to determine actual 
detriment to each data subject. However, it is reasonable to 
assume that due to the inaccurate recording of data subject’s 
personal data that was sent to CRA’s that some negative 
impact has occurred.    

  
1.13  It should also be noted that as this incident was not a 

personal data security breach as defined in the UK GDPR (‘the 
breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful 
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or 
access to personal data’) BOI were under no obligation to 
report it to the ICO.  

  
1.14  The investigation found that BOI failed to take reasonable 

steps to ensure accurate personal data was recorded with the 
CRA which affected 3,284 data subjects. Opportunities were 
missed in 2019 when corrective action was taken to rectify 
inaccurate data subject’s credit profiles. BOI’s failure to take 
remedial action meant 115 cases of the error continued for up 
to 33 months.   

  
1.15  The investigation also found whilst BOI had risk management 
measures in place in relation to debt sales, it failed to identify 
the importance of the sold debt flag which had been included 
in the process as a manual step.  

  

1.16  Furthermore, BOI failed to undertake any assurance reviews 
of accounts in relation to the debt sale flag or have oversight 
of the process. Had it had, the error could have been resolved 
in 2019 and further errors could have been prevented.   

  

3  

Remedial steps taken by BOI  
  
1.17. The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial    
steps taken by BOI in the light of this incident. In particular  
  

•  BOI has informed and supported affected data subjects where it has 

deemed necessary.  
  

•  BOI has corrected all affected data subject’s accounts.  

  

•  BOI is reviewing the end to end debt sale process to identify any 

weaknesses and to ensure any further issues are identified and 
mitigated.  
  

•  BOI has suspended its debt sales until the review of the process has 

taken place and appropriate processes have been put in place.  
  

Decision to issue a reprimand   
  
1.18. Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to BOI in relation to the alleged infringements of 
articles of the UK GDPR set out above.  
 
1.19 BOI were invited to provide representations which were submitted to 
the ICO on 7 November 2023.  
 

•  BOI stated there was not significant challenge to the factual content 

of the proposed reprimand. 
 

•  BOI provided an explanation as to the structure of the Bank which is 

reflected in the reprimand. 

 

 

  

•  BOI confirmed that points 1 and 2 of the recommended steps to 

improve BOI’s compliance have already been completed through a 
large scale remediation workstream.  

•  BOI also stated that it is intending to conduct a wider assurance 

review of all CRA reporting processes and controls across BOI UK 
during 2024 and is ensuring learnings from this incident are shared 
across the bank. 
 

4  

•  BOI acknowledged that the ICO included in the reprimand that the 

infringement did not constitute a personal data breach as defined 
under UK GDPR and did not require notification to the ICO.      
 

Further Action Recommended  

  
1.19. Due to the length of time since the incident took place the following 
steps may have already been addressed. However, the Commissioner 
recommends that BOI should take certain steps to ensure its compliance 
with UK GDPR. With particular reference to article 5(1)(d) and Article 5 
(2) of the UK GDPR the following steps are recommended:  
  

1.  Continue to provide any necessary support to help mitigate any 

potential detriment to the affected data subjects where applicable.   
  

2.  Assess any new processes and procedures that have been put in 
place as a result of this incident and the review and continue to 
monitor these over a period of time to ensure that they are effective 
and to prevent another occurrence of this incident in the future.   
  

3.  Ensure the learning from this incident is shared across the 

organisation - not just the departments where it occurred - to 
embed lessons learnt from the incident and to improve 
understanding and your compliance with data protection.  

 
1.20 The ICO recognises that the BOI has already progressed with the 

recommended action above in order improve its compliance with UK 
GDPR.  

  

  

5  

