
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    10/18/2019
                                Accompanying children online at an early stage Consumer advice center and LfDI offer parents’ evenings in daycare centers (Mainz / 10/18/2019) Online games, video platforms or networked toys: Children are using digital media ever earlier – even at kindergarten age. This presents parents, but also educators, with the challenge of selecting suitable offers and ensuring responsible media consumption.

©
                            Syda Productions / shutterstock.comAber: what is age-appropriate content, usage times and device settings? What about data security in networked teddies and co, or where are cost traps lurking in game apps and advertising? Parents and educators can find answers to these and other questions in the information offered by the consumer advice center, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) and the Ministry of Consumer Protection of Rhineland-Palatinate, which was specially developed for day-care centers. Trained speakers come to parents' evenings in day-care centers free of charge. They use interactive methods to convey complex content in an understandable and entertaining way.
“Tablets and smartphones are often interesting even for the youngest. With the new offer, we are therefore informing parents about the opportunities and risks of their children's media use. We support parents in developing a sensible way for their children to deal with the media and to support their children in processing their media impressions," explains Consumer Protection Minister Anne Spiegel. "With these parents' evenings, we are expanding our range of school workshops for children and teenagers. So far, we have reached well over 80,000 students with these special school workshops in Rhineland-Palatinate. We are pleased to be able to take current developments into account in this cooperation and to bring consumer and data protection into the day care center as well," says Ulrike von der Lühe, Board Member of the Rhineland-Palatinate Consumer Advice Center. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann adds: “Digital education is a task for society as a whole that cannot only be left to schools. I am pleased that parents are also involved with the new offer and can find out about the risks and dangers of using digital media in early childhood." Day care centers that want to take advantage of the offer can contact the Rhineland-Palatinate Consumer Advice Center for the consumer protection module and the Rhineland-Palatinate State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information for the data protection module. The events are free thanks to project funding from the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry for Family Affairs, Women, Youth, Integration and Consumer Protection. Registration and contact: Verbraucherzentrale Rheinland-Pfalz e.V 28telekommunikation(at)vz-rlp.dewww.verbraucherzentrale-rlp.de/bildung-rlpThe state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-PalatinateHintere Bleiche 34, 55116 Mainz+49 (0) 6131 208 2583poststelle(at)datenschutz.rlp.dewww. datenschutz.rlp.de/de/themenfelder-themen/online-services/kita-elternthemenabend-formular
                                return
                            



