1/7

 File No.: PS/00407/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 8, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against MONFORTE DE LEMOS CITY COUNCIL with NIF
P2703100D (hereinafter, MONFORTE TOWN HALL). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:

-Searching your name and surnames, or your DNI, in Google, a document appears, with the
all of your personal data, presented in an allegation to the questions of a
entrance exam to the Local Police position for the AYTO. OF MONFORTE, as well as
the complete data of two other opponents.

-Having contacted the AYTO. DE MONFORTE, requesting that they erase
said document, receives the response that it has been deleted. However, six
months after said request, the document remains available on the website of the
TOWN HALL OF MONFORTE.

Together with the claim, it provides a copy of the documents, which can be viewed at
access the link:
***URL.1.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer was sent on 04/12/2021 through GEISER (integrated management of
registration services), being received on 04/13/2021.

On 04/28/2021, this Agency received a written response indicating that:

-In the framework of a selection process for a Police Agent position
Municipal, in 2018, was published on the AYTO website. OF MONFORTE a
written claim submitted by the claimant, in order to give it the due
advertising.

-On 10/04/2020 an email is received from the complaining party requesting the
withdrawal of your data. On 10/06/2020, the concessionaire company of the
management of the municipal website that proceeds to delete the data. That same day the company
reply by email that the data has been deleted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

-On 10/07/2021 an email is sent to the applicant, indicating that the
proceeded to withdraw the content and that there is no longer any visible data on the website of the
AYTO. OF MONFORTE.

-Received request for information from the Spanish Data Protection Agency
(AEPD), again the concessionaire company of the management of the web is requested
municipal confirmation of the removal of the publication, who sends proof of
that by entering the personal data of the complaining party in google, they do not appear
and publications of the AYTO. OF MONFORTE.

THIRD: On 06/08/2021, the claim filed by
the claiming party.

FOURTH: On October 29, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 17 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 12/13/2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of practice tests, considering the following:

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes:
-The claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated during the phase of admission to processing of said
claim.

-The allegations to the initiation agreement PS/00407/2021 presented by the
CITY COUNCIL and the documentation that accompanies them.

-Result of the checks carried out by the instructor, to date
12/03/2021, incorporated into the file by diligence dated 12/13/2021,
consisting of performing a google search limited to the site
“monfortedelemos.es” of the term “A.A.A.”, which results in the link ***URL.1,
through which the written claim presented on its day by the party is accessed.
claimant before the TOWN HALL.

SIXTH: On January 26, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that, due to the infringement of article 17 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
with a WARNING to the CITY COUNCIL OF MONFORTE DE LEMOS, with NIF
P2703100D.

SEVENTH: On 02/15/2022, the CITY COUNCIL presents a new letter of
allegations.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is proven that, within the framework of a selection process for a
Municipal Police Agent position, in 2018, was published on the website

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

of the TOWN HALL a written claim presented by the claimant party, to the
in order to give it due publicity.

SECOND: It is accredited that, as a result of the reception at the CITY COUNCIL of
an email from the complaining party, requesting the withdrawal of
said letter, the CITY COUNCIL contacted the concessionaire of the
management of the municipal website in order to carry out the request, and that
received a response to the effect that the request had been carried out.

THIRD: It is accredited that the letter of claim to the selection process,
presented at the time by the claimant, remained accessible six months later
of having requested the CITY COUNCIL its withdrawal, and even later, during
the substantiation of this sanctioning procedure, as has been stated
manifest with the practice of the test carried out for this purpose, which has been given
Transfer to the CITY HALL.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In relation to the arguments presented to the resolution proposal, the
City Council reiterates those already presented previously, insisting that the part
claimant had never requested the deletion of his personal data by presenting
written before the CITY COUNCIL by any of the means provided for in article
16.4 of Law 39/2015 of October 1 of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations, however, the CITY COUNCIL requested the company
concessionaire of the management of the municipal website that proceeded to delete them, receiving
response that the request had already been carried out.

Upon receipt of a copy of the administrative file, they verify that in the same work
a diligence according to which you can access the written claims filed
by the complaining party through the link provided.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

In this regard, the CITY COUNCIL states that technically and humanly
took the necessary measures to delete the data of the complaining party without
procrastination, but the internet has memory and search links are preserved, so
It takes a certain time for everything to disappear, and it is also necessary that
clear cookies and cache.

However, when this Agency received the claim from the complaining party and
verified the link provided, the allegation presented to the selection process of
Local Police positions of the TOWN HALL was perfectly accessible, so
It can be concluded that they had not been withdrawn, or, at least, there had been no
done correctly.

The CITY COUNCIL is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of the
article 17 of the RGPD.

III

The lack of attention to the right of deletion is regulated in 17 of the RGPD, which indicates:

Article 17 “Right of suppression”

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete personal data without undue delay when any
of the following circumstances:

a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which
were collected or otherwise treated;

b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment is based in accordance
with article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), and this is not
based on another legal basis;

c) the interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1, and does not
other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party opposes the
treatment according to article 21, paragraph 2;

 d) the personal data has been illicitly processed;

e) the personal data must be deleted for the fulfillment of a legal obligation
established in the Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
data controller;

 f) the personal data has been obtained in relation to the offer of services of the
information society mentioned in the article

 8, paragraph 1. 2. When you have made the personal data public and you are obliged,
By virtue of the provisions of section 1, to delete said data, the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the available technology and the cost of its application,
will take reasonable measures, including technical measures, with a view to informing the
Responsible for processing the personal data of the interested party's request for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

deletion of any link to such personal data, or any copy or replica of
the same.

3. Sections 1 and 2 will not apply when the treatment is necessary:

a) to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information;

b) for the fulfillment of a legal obligation that requires the processing of data
imposed by the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment, or for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the controller;

c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health in accordance with
article 9, section 2, letters h) and i), and section 3; d) for archival purposes in interest
public, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes,
in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, insofar as the right indicated
in section

The infringement is referenced in the RGPD, article 83:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22”

 Its prescription is referred to in the LOPDGDD, article 72.1.k) which determines:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

k) The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the exercise of the
rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

It has been demonstrated that the CITY COUNCIL did not proceed to withdraw from the web the
allegation document that the claimant presented at the time, since six
months after requesting it, it was still accessible.

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:

IV

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE MONFORTE DE LEMOS CITY COUNCIL, with NIF
P2703100D, for an infringement of Article 17 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MONFORTE CITY COUNCIL
OF LEMOS.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

