Case number: NAIH / 2020/166/5.
History: NAIH / 2019/7637.

Subject: Partial decision granting the application
DECISION

Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
by an authorized legal representative of the applicant (hereinafter: the Applicant)
On the basis of his request, the Applicant initiated data protection official proceedings on 29 October 2019
with regard to the unlawful processing of your personal data in connection with a loan agreement with […]
('the Applicant'). In that case, the Authority shall take the following decisions:
I.1. In the part of the Authority's application
gives place
and
I.2. notes that the Applicant processed the Applicant's personal data without a legal basis,
and breached the purpose limitation principle of the General Data Protection Regulation.
I.3. The Authority shall issue a request to the Applicant for a breach of the Applicant's obligation to provide information
in the section on
rejects.
II. The Authority shall inform the Applicant ex officio due to the unlawful data processing carried out by it

HUF 1,000,000, ie one million forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
No procedural costs were incurred during the official proceedings and therefore no costs were incurred
provided by the Authority.
The data protection fine shall govern the initiation of legal proceedings
15 days after the expiry of the time limit or, in the case of a review, by the court
within the Authority's centralized collection account for centralized revenue collection (1003200001040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000
0000). When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/166. JUDGE. should be
to refer to.
If the Applicant fails to meet the obligation to pay the fine within the time limit, it shall be delayed
must pay a supplement. The rate of the late payment interest is the statutory interest, which is in arrears
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year concerned. The fine and the
in the event of non-payment of the late payment allowance, the Authority shall order enforcement of the decision.
There is no administrative remedy against the decision, but it has been available since its notification
Within 30 days of the application addressed to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. The request for a hearing must be indicated in the application.
For those who do not benefit from full personal tax exemption, the fee for an administrative lawsuit is 30

HUF 000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT

I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. By a legal representative of the applicant authorized by […] on 28 October 2019
submitted an application initiating and requesting an official data protection procedure
the investigation of the data processing of the Applicant, the establishment of the fact of illegal data processing.
At the request of the Applicant, the right to information self - determination and the
CXII of 2011 on freedom of information Section 60 (1) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act)
data protection authority proceedings have been initiated.
The Applicant stated that it had not entered into any loan or credit agreement with
With the Applicant, nevertheless in the Applicant's records as a debtor in a credit transaction
recorded in the Central Credit Information System without a legal basis
(hereinafter: KHR) also transmitted your personal data. The Applicant then became aware
that your personal data will be treated unlawfully when you have entered into with another financial institution
loan agreement, however, it was refused on the grounds that his personal data was
They are listed in KHR in connection with a loan transaction, so you may not receive or receive as much
you can get a loan in the amount you have requested. According to the Petitioner, this is “serious
caused moral damage ”by the Applicant to the Applicant.
The Applicant lodged a complaint with the Applicant and requested information on 30 August 2019 a
He applied at a branch in Hajdúböszörmény, but claims that he did not receive a suitable one
information.
The Applicant has attached a copy of the following documents:
-

From KHR 30.08.2019. "Person's own credit report" requested on
The Applicant sent to the Applicant - […] ICT no. Letter from the
Requested
that it is registered in the CCIS in connection with the Applicant
the change in the reference data was transmitted to the financial undertaking managing the CCIS
10/02/2019 on the day. This letter states that the - […] no. for the contract, the Applicant is a co-debtor.

I.2 Statements made during the Requested Procedure
The Authority notified the Applicant in accordance with NAIH / 2019/7637/4. by order no
in order to clarify the facts, to which the Applicant has stated the following.
The source of previously processed personal data was KHR. The Applicant's personal information
Act CXXII of 2011 on the Central Credit Information System
(hereinafter: the CCIS Act), data management
as a legal basis for the processing of personal data by natural persons
the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
2

Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 on the placement of personal data (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation) 6.
Article 1 (1) (c).
The Applicant was previously a customer of the Applicant, lasting from 11 December 2002 to 21 February 2005
had a current account of type […] with the Applicant during the period. Termination of your contract
after the retention period applicable to the contract was lawfully stored by the Applicant by the Applicant
personal information.
The Applicant's first complaint was lodged on September 18, 2019, at the Hajdúböszörmény branch of the Applicant.
performed. The bank clerk recorded the complaint with the Requested Central Complaints Officer
as a result of which the Applicant initiated an internal investigation. During the examination
it was established that the Applicant was incorrectly recorded in the CCIS for a loan agreement,
caused by a manual recording error due to a customer number error. As the Applicant's complaint
and the proceedings revealed that it was not the Applicant 's client,
The administrator of Hajdúböszörmény was informed of the procedure by telephone on 10 October 2019
and deletion from the CCIS system.
The Applicant forwarded the data of the Applicant to the CCIS on 3 October 2019, about which the Applicant
notified by post. The subject of the letter is the transfer of data to the CCIS, the letter in this round
shows the changes for which the deletion was made. Section 17 (5) of the CCIS Act
requires the data subject to be notified of any changes in the data in the CCIS. According to the letter, […]
The personal data of the Applicant (name, date of birth) were recorded for the contract number
name, mother's birth name, place and date of birth, identity document number, address,
mailing address).
According to the Applicant's statement, the Applicant's customer number was […], the actual debtor of the contract
the customer number […]. The Applicant also stated that the Applicant had been registered
by mistake to the credit agreement of the real debtor of the contract.
According to the Applicant, the Applicant's request was duly fulfilled and notified by telephone
the measures taken.
The Applicant also attached the “Information sent to the Applicant on 3 October 2019”.
on the transfer of data to the CCIS (to natural persons) ”
provided information that ‘éve in compliance with its legal obligation (Act CXXII of 2011 -
KHR tv. - § 15 (6)) in connection with the contract No. […] of the Central Credit Information
There has been a change in the reference data recorded in the System (KHR)
(BISZ Zrt.) on 02-02-2019.
The following data on your […] contract with our bank can be found in the Central Credit Information
In the system. […] ”The letter hereinafter contains the Applicant's personal data and
the contract data were incorrectly recorded in relation to the Applicant, however, there is no indication of a
letter that these entries are incorrect or will be deleted.
The Applicant's second complaint was received by the Applicant on 28 October 2019, in which a
The Applicant requested a HUF 700,000 grievance fee with reference to the Applicant's unlawful data processing. THE
The applicant's letter was replied to by post on 12 November 2019, in which it was again acknowledged that
that they were at fault, however, the amount of damages claimed was considered excessive by the Applicant. THE
Taking into account the damage suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant awarded immediate “compensation” of HUF 200,000,
which was transferred to the Applicant's account number. The Applicant is attached by the Applicant's proxy
a copy of the letter sent to his legal representative, dated 12 November 2019, containing the incorrect information
The following information was provided in connection with the data subject's request for cancellation:

3

‘[T] he complaint has been investigated and it has been established that
The data processing indicated in his complaint was due to an administrative error, which was rectified immediately
we corrected it after we became aware of it, so that your Client could not suffer any material damage. The repair
after which he is entitled to a full credit. We do not record your Client in a given transaction
as an actor, this is confirmed by our present letter.
We would like to note here that the deadline for replying to complaints is 30 days. The application
to answer, of course, the Bank must also verify that the Customer is indeed
whether it is included in the obligation and, if not, how it was included. Investigate this
however, our Bank did not intentionally delay the investigation and
by settling the complaint. After the Customer has not previously submitted a written complaint to our Bank,
only verbally indicated his objection at the Hajdúböszörmény branch on 18 September 2019, Our Bank
did not send a written reply. However, about the outcome of the investigation after the settlement
the Hajdúböszörmény branch immediately informed the Customer. […] ”
II. Applicable law
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
The Regulation applies to all or part of personal data
automated processing of non-automated data
which are part of a registration system or which are part of a
intended to be part of a registration system.
Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation "personal data" means identified or identifiable
any information relating to a natural person ("data subject"); identifiable by that natural
a person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as a name, number,
location data, online identification or physical, physiological, genetic,
on the basis of one or more factors relating to his or her intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable.
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; ("Purpose limitation")
Processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or to take action at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the processing is in the public interest or a public authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of the task
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
4

Point (f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to the performance of their duties by public authorities
data management during
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
to receive feedback from the data controller regarding the processing of your personal data
is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, failing that
possible criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data
against its treatment;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
comprehensible information on the significance of such processing and on the data subject
the expected consequences.
Under Article 17 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled
that, at his request, the controller deletes his personal data without undue delay
data, and the controller is obliged to provide personal data concerning the data subject
delete it without undue delay if the data subject withdraws the authorization referred to in Article 6 (1) (a).
consent to the processing, and there is no consent to the processing
other legal basis.
Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation:
The controller shall keep the state of the art and the cost of implementation and the costs of implementation
the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of the processing and the rights of natural persons; and
taking into account the varying degrees of probability and severity of the risk to their freedoms
both in determining the method of data management and in the course of data management
carry out technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymisation, aimed at
effective implementation of data protection principles, such as data retention, on the one hand, and e
necessary to meet the requirements of this Regulation and to protect the rights of data subjects
incorporating guarantees into the data management process.
2. The controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure that only such personal data is processed by default
necessary for the specific purpose of the processing. That is the obligation
applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing and storage
duration and availability. These measures must, in particular, ensure that
that personal data is not by default without the intervention of the natural person
become accessible to an indefinite number of persons.
3. An approved certification mechanism in accordance with Article 42 may be used to demonstrate this
that the controller complies with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article.

5

Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b), (c) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation
acting within the corrective power of the competent authority:
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph.
Pursuant to Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, all supervisory authorities
ensure that any infringement of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 is in accordance with this Article
The administrative fines imposed pursuant to this Regulation shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case
be dissuasive.
Pursuant to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines are imposed by
referred to in Article 58 (2) (a) to (h) and (j), as the case may be
should be imposed in addition to or instead of measures. When deciding if it is necessary
to impose an administrative fine or to determine the amount of the administrative fine
in each case due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
Technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been ordered orally
compliance with revolving measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, the financial gain obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement; or
avoided loss.
Pursuant to Article 18 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, where the processing is
subject to paragraph 1, such personal data, with the exception of storage, shall be subject to
with the consent of the data subject, or for the submission, enforcement or enforcement of legal claims
to protect the rights of another natural or legal person, or
Important public interest of the Union or of a Member State.

6

Pursuant to Article 83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the following provisions apply
an administrative fine of up to EUR 20 000 000 in accordance with paragraph 2
or, in the case of undertakings, the total worldwide turnover in the preceding business year
up to a maximum of 4%, with the higher of the two amounts
to impose:
(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
appropriately;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the European Parliament (EU) 2016/679
and Council Regulation (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the general data protection regulation in accordance with Articles III-V. and VI / A. Chapter and Section 3 (3), (4),
6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 23-24. Section 4 (5), Section 5 (3) to (5), (7) and (8)
§ 13 (2), § 23, § 25, § 25 / G. § (3), (4) and (6)
in paragraph 25 / H. § (2), 25 / M. § (2), 25 / N. §, 51 / A.
§ (1), Articles 52-54. § 55 (1) - (2), 56-60. §, 60 / A. §
(1) - (3) and (6), Section 61 (1) (a) and (c), Section 61 (2) and (3)
paragraph 4 (b) and paragraphs 6 to 10, paragraphs 62 to 71. § 72
in Section 75 (1) - (5), Section 75 / A. With the additions specified in § and Annex 1
should be used.
Act CXXII of 2011 on the Central Credit Information System (hereinafter: the CCIS
Pursuant to Section 5 (2) of the Act), the reference data provider for financial services
investment loan agreement and the securities lending agreement, as well as the statutory student
the conclusion of a credit agreement (hereinafter together: the agreement which is the subject of the data provision)
then submit it in writing to the CCIS
(a) the natural person is listed in Annex II; points 1.1 and 1.2 (a) to (d) and (k) of Chapter
reference data in accordance with
(b) undertakings listed in Annex II. Chapter II, points 2.1 and 2.2 (a) to (d) and (l)
reference data in accordance with
Pursuant to Section 5 (7) of the KHR Act, it is a contract that is the subject of data provision
the reference data provider from the financial undertaking managing the CCIS prior to the conclusion of the contract
takes over:
(a) in the case of a natural person customer, in a written declaration pursuant to paragraph 3
in accordance with paragraph 2 of Annex II. Sections 1.1 to 1.4 and 1.6 of Chapter
reference data according to
(b) in the case of a natural person customer, in a written declaration pursuant to paragraph 3
did not consent to the consultation of his data - Annex II in accordance with point 1.5 of Chapter
11-13 / A. The reference data registered in the CCIS [Annex II. Chapter
Points 1.1, 1.2 (e) to (g), points 1.3 to 1.4, point 1.6],
(c) in the case of undertakings, Annex II. reference data according to sections 2.1 to 2.4 of this chapter.
Pursuant to Section 15 (6) of the CCIS Act, the reference data provider is Section 6 (5)
with the exception of the reference data in accordance with this Act, all financial institutions managing the CCIS in accordance with this Act
no later than five working days after the transfer of the data to the undertaking
inform the registered natural person of the transfer.
III. Authority decision
III.1.Data processing of the requested data
7

The Applicant handles the following personal data of the Applicant in the objected case: name, date of birth
name, place and time of birth, identity document number, residential address, customer number.
On the basis of the Applicant's statements, the Authority has established that its data management process
The Illegal data processing of the Requested was caused by the erroneous data recording.
According to the Applicant's statement, the unlawful conduct caused the unlawful data processing,
but it can be traced back to an administrative error. In the Authority's view, this argument
does not relieve the Applicant of the responsibility of the data controller, given that the general
Pursuant to Article 4 (7) of the Data Protection Regulation, the Applicant is a controller and not a
employees. The Applicant is the one who organizes and processes the data management process
circumstances, not the clerks. The most important feature of a data controller is that it is meaningful
has decision - making powers and is responsible for the processing of all data, the
for compliance with the obligation laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Working Party on Data Protection set up under Article 29 of the Data Protection Directive (hereinafter
Working Party on Data Protection) 1/2010 on the concept of "controller" and "processor".
He also stated in his opinion no
considered for data processing and obligations under data protection law,
unless there are clear indications that a natural person is responsible. […] However
even in such cases where a specific natural person is appointed to provide the
compliance with data protection principles or to process personal data, this person will not
data controller, but acting on behalf of the legal person (company or public body)
which, in its capacity as controller, remains liable in the event of a breach of the principles. " The
The fact that the data was recorded incorrectly by an administrator does not therefore constitute a ground for exemption
In this case, too, the controller shall be liable.
Based on all these, the violation under this decision is the responsibility of the Applicant as data controller
fall. Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation requires the controller to be the controller
take appropriate technical and organizational measures throughout the process
to ensure that only such personal data is processed by default
necessary for the specific purpose of the processing.
III.2. Legal basis for data management
It can be established from the documents that the Applicant is neither in connection with the given transaction nor otherwise
there was no debtor or client of the Applicant in connection with the transaction, there was no legal relationship between them
Since February 21, 2005, the date of termination of his current account agreement.
Due to the incorrect recording of the customer number, the Applicant kept the data of the Applicant in such a way that
they were related to a credit transaction of another person, and therefore, in connection with the previous current number agreement, the
for the purpose of performing the contract, by mistake.
The Authority found that the Applicant had made an erroneous record
infringed Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation by not
had a legal basis for data processing.
III.3. Principle of purpose
Due to the writing of the Applicant concerning the customer number, the Applicant was registered as a debtor
by mistake to the customer number of a contract in which the Applicant was not involved, ie a
The Applicant used his personal data in a contract in which the Applicant did not
acted as a party.

8

The original purpose of the processing of the Applicant's personal data is the Applicant's current account agreement
and the mandatory storage of personal data after its termination.
By managing the personal data of the Applicant in connection with his / her current account agreement
was linked to a credit agreement in which the Applicant was neither a debtor nor any other
is not included as an obligor, the Applicant's personal data of the Applicant is original
treated for a different purpose.
In view of the above, the Authority found that the Applicant had breached the general data protection
the principle of purpose limitation set out in Article 5 (1) (b) of that Regulation.
III. 4. Obligation of the Applicant to provide information
III.4.1. The quality of the Applicant's oral complaint
The Applicant at the Applicant - according to the Applicant on 30 August 2019, a
According to the applicant's statement on September 18, 2019 - in his oral complaint it
objected that he was not a debtor in connection with the contract forwarded by the Applicant to the CCIS.
The Applicant has attached documents and a statement of objections to the consumer
qualified as a complaint.
In his complaint, the Applicant raised an objection regarding the status of the debtor, and
in that regard, it made no indication that the
To the applicant.
In the Authority's view, the Applicant's oral objection, based on its content, is based on the above
does not constitute an application for the exercise of the rights of the data subject and, consequently, the Applicant
was not infringed in his capacity as a data subject.
In the context of the examination of this complaint by the Applicant, the Authority may not take a position,
whereas the investigation of consumer complaints is dealt with in Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2) - (2a)
does not fall within its competence, it is within the competence of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank.
III.4.2. Application of the Applicant concerned
The Applicant's second complaint, which also qualifies as a concerned application, was received on 28 October 2019
To the applicant. In this, the Applicant claimed damages for the Illegal data processing of the Applicant
with reference. The Applicant sent information to the data subject on 12 November 2019
Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
clearly inform the Applicant of the measures taken in accordance with
Pursuant to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, a response must be provided within one month
at the request of the data subject, ie to inform the controller of the action taken
connection.
In view of the fact that the Applicant submitted the application submitted on 28 October 2019 in 2019.
Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
therefore, the Authority found that the Applicant had not infringed
Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
III.5. Legal consequences

9

The Authority grants the request of the Applicant and Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article 6 (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
For breach of Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority examined of its own motion whether a data protection fine against the Applicant was justified.
imposition. In this context, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and
Infotv.75 / A. § considered ex officio all the circumstances of the case and found that a
in the case of an infringement detected in the present proceedings, the warning is neither proportionate nor dissuasive
therefore a fine should be imposed.
In imposing the fine, the Authority considered the following factors as aggravating circumstances
take into account:
-

The unjustified data processing of the Applicant significantly affects the privacy of the Applicant
affected as the Applicant’s personal data in connection with a contract
recorded in which he was not even indebted. Available to a natural person for a loan
access is a basic existential need. The Applicant's internal procedures are not
eliminated that the Applicant, who was unaware of the data processing, was
be placed in a situation which seriously harms his interests and should have the infringement himself
take steps to resolve it. (Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation)
paragraph (a)

-

The violation is serious because the Applicant's handling of data is subject to general data protection
violated several articles of the Regulation and treated the Applicant as personal
that the data in the passive status, which is subject to the retention obligation, has been actively used - recorded - in another transaction. (general
Article 83 (2) (a) of the Data Protection Regulation)

-

To convict the Applicant for violating the General Data Protection Regulation
has already taken place in NAIH / 2018/5573/6 / H. in which the Authority
found that a mortgage loan was treated in the context of a contract with a
the personal data of the data subject and has mistakenly designated him as the debtor in the contract,
despite the fact that the person concerned was neither a party nor any other obligor
in the contract to which the Applicant has fixed him in his system, and then
for this reason, the applicant's personal data is mistaken for the contract debtor
made available to him. No fine was imposed in this case.
(Article 83 (2) (e) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following mitigating circumstances:
-

The unlawful data processing of the Requested affected a person and after the detection of the error
he remedied the situation within a short time. (Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation)
paragraph (a)).

-

The unlawful data processing of the Applicant can be attributed to his unintentional conduct
back. (Article 83 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation).

-

Taking into account the damage suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant is HUF 200,000 immediate
Awarded “compensation” which was transferred to the Applicant’s account number. (general
Article 83 (2) (c) of the Data Protection Regulation)

10

Based on the nature of the breach - breach of data processing principles - upper limit of the fine that can be imposed
EUR 20 000 000 pursuant to Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and
up to 4% of total world market turnover in the preceding business year. (General Data Protection Regulation
Article 83 (5) (a)
Based on the Applicant's income statement for 2018, its pre-tax profit is HUF […] million
volt. The data protection fine imposed shall not exceed the maximum fine that may be imposed, as it is […]
0.00847% of HUF million. (Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation)
Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation applies to the imposition of fines.
The following provisions of paragraph 1 were not taken into account because, in its view, the
were not relevant in the present case: points (d), (f), (h) and (k).
By imposing a fine, the Authority's specific preventive purpose is to encourage the Applicant
to examine personal transactions handled in connection with contracts with its customers
data practices. In setting the amount of the fine, the Authority shall:
in addition to the general purpose of prevention, the general preventive purpose to be achieved by the fine was taken into account
which, in addition to deterring the Applicant from further infringement, all market participants
data processing practices.
ARC. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) defines its jurisdiction as a whole
country.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1)
there is an administrative remedy against him.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a), the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the decision of the Criminal Court falls within the jurisdiction of the court. Section 13 (11)
The Metropolitan Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction pursuant to A Kp. Section 27 (1)
legal representation is mandatory in litigation within the jurisdiction of the tribunal. Kp. Section 39 (6)
unless otherwise provided by law, the date of filing of the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of an administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Section 9 of the Act
Under paragraph 1 (b), the client's legal representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
If the Applicant does not duly prove the fulfillment of the prescribed obligations, a
The Authority considers that it has not complied with its obligations within the time allowed. The Ákr. Section 132
if the Applicant fails to comply with the obligation set out in the final decision of the Authority,
the executable. The decision of the Authority Pursuant to Section 82 (1), the communication shall become final
becomes. The Ákr. Section 133 of the Enforcement - unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
11

ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. Under section 134 of the enforcement - if
a law, government decree, or local government decree in a municipal authority matter
unless otherwise provided - by the state tax authority.
Budapest, March 26, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

12

