
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/12/2021
                                Handover of the activity reports of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of InformationThe State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, today presented the activity reports on data protection (2019) and freedom of information (2018/2019) to the President of the Rhineland-Palatinate state parliament, Hendrik Hering.©
                            State parliament of Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann says: "The year 2019 was marked by the changes brought about by the General Data Protection Regulation: My employees and I were asked to a large extent for legal assessments, and a year after the GDPR came into effect, a balance sheet was drawn up From our point of view, the GDPR was and is a success story. The introduction of the GDPR was also accompanied by a significant increase in data breach reports and complaints from citizens about data protection violations."
Kugelmann continues: "The year 2019 was a special one for us because Rhineland-Palatinate chaired the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK). In five conferences, including in Trier and at Hambach Castle, current issues were discussed The Hambach Declaration, which formulates positions on artificial intelligence, was adopted in Neustadt an der Weinstrasse Application documents discussed. We want data protection as a guard rail for future technologies." The data protection activity report also includes chapters on international data transfer, European cooperation, security, justice, video surveillance, economy, digital life, employee data protection, media, health, social, municipal, media education and school, reporting, digital administration, certification and law enforcement.
The activity report on freedom of information refers - as usual - to two years: to 2018 and 2019. One focus of the report is on the development of freedom of information law through case law: judgments are reproduced and explained, for example on the transparency obligation for reports by the scientific service of the state parliament , for sending judgments to private individuals and for the right to access information under the Consumer Information Act. In addition, the work of the LfDI is presented: results from the auditing and advisory activities of the LfDI, events, cooperation in legislative projects and the visit of a delegation from Belarus. Kugelmann says: "In the context of freedom of information, one focus of our work was on supporting the publication of data and information on the transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate. We continue to see it as an important task to advise municipalities, authorities and those responsible. That affects the individual case, but also the retrieval of the transparency platform. The citizens should get as much information as they want as quickly as possible."
Further information:
- Activity report on data protection 2019- Activity report on freedom of information 2018/2019- PM of the LfDI RLP on the Hambach Declaration
                                return
                            



