 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

 
PRESS RELEASE

Bremerhaven, October 24, 2022

 
Administrative court upholds ban on publication of meeting
recorded
 
The Bremen Administrative Court issued deletion orders in its judgment of October 10, 2022
confirmed by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI), who
publication of recordings and screenshots of online video conferences
Advisory Board meetings concerned. The verdict is not yet legally binding.
 
The LfDI had asked the plaintiff, among other things, to use the internet
delete YouTube videos and screenshots posted on the site. These concerned
sections of an advisory board meeting held via online video conference.
 
The administrative court confirmed the legality of these orders. The plaintiff has
not acted out of a legitimate interest. Such will not already
then pursued if a private person operates his own website and on this theirs
present your own opinion. Also speak against such an interest that the content is primary
aimed at defaming the people involved. Given the public digital
Accessibility of the Advisory Board meeting, the minutes of Advisory Board meetings and the facts
that this is made available to the public on the Internet is the publication
disclosure by the plaintiff is not required to inform the public. Additionally over-
weigh the interests and fundamental rights of the advisory board members shown, who
publics on the Internet are particularly at risk because the published information
available in this way to an uncontrollable and unrestricted group of people
ment would be made.
 
The administrative court also declared the orders to be lawful, which the plaintiff to do so
undertake to refrain from such publications in the future.
 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Imke Sommer showed
satisfied with the confirmation of their orders: "All those who spend their free time
as members of the Advisory Board for the general public, can assume that the
Publication of recordings and screenshots of digital advisory board meetings without consent
of the depicted is unlawful. The Bremen Administrative Court has unequivocally
clearly established."
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

