 
 
 

 

 

A P O F A S H 47/2021

 
Athens, 14-10-2021
Prot. No.: 2323
 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
Department via teleconference on Wednesday 10.02.2021 following his invitation
of its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in the history
of the present. The President of the Authority, Konstantinos Menudakos, and
regular members Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis, as rapporteur, Spyros Vlachopoulos
and Charalambos Anthopoulos. Present without the right to vote, she was the auditor
Georgia Panagopoulou, specialist IT scientist, as assistant lecturer and
Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as
secretary.

 

The Authority took into account the following:

It was submitted to the Authority under no. prot. G/EIS/2764/22-04-2020 complaint, n
which invokes a violation of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 due to reception
communication with an SMS message with wishes for Easter1 by A, without the complainant
to have given consent to be contacted in relation to political position
of A as …. The message also did not provide a way to be removed from the list
recipients of the messages.

The Authority, in the context of examining the complaint, sent to the complainant
the one with no. prot. C/EX/2764-1/28-04-2020 document with which he requested the opinions

                                                           
1 The content of the message was as follows: "..."
Sender details: (as shown in the message): …
Date and time of receiving the message: 18-4-2020 19:05
 
 

of the accused, taking into account the guidelines it has
issued by the Authority for Political Communication.

The complainant replied regarding the no. prot. G/EIS/3695/29-05-2020
memorandum in which he mentions that there was a personal acquaintance with him
complainant and that the messages sent through company, because of it
a large number of them had no content that fell into her category
political communication.

Then the Authority called with no. prot. G/EX/2764/27-10-2020 document
the accused in a hearing via teleconference before her Department
Beginning at the meeting of 4-11-2020, in order to discuss the above
complaint.

At the meeting

of 4-11-2020 attended through

teleconference o
complainant and the lawyers Grigorios Kanellopoulos with AMDSA ... and Chara
Zerva with AMDSA ..., who presented their views orally. Then the
the complainant submitted the no. prot. G/EIS/7905/17-11-2020 memorandum. In Art
due to the memorandum the following are briefly mentioned: The SMS in question contained
festive wishes and had the ultimate goal of enlivening friends and
personal contacts of the complainant, in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic
and the curfew that had caused insecurity and
sadness to all. It did not contain any political message and was not intended to
promoting a political candidacy or political position or action. The message has been sent
through company due to increased obligations. This communication does not
falls under political communication. The telephone number of the complainant
came from the personal phone book maintained by the complainant
on his personal mobile phone, as the complainant was in the wider
his friend/social circle.

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who left after
the discussion of the case and before the conference and decision-making,
after thorough discussion,

 

2



 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

1. According to art. 4 pc. 7 of the General Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on
protection of natural persons against data processing
of a personal nature and for the free movement of such data
(hereinafter, Regulation), which has been in force since May 25, 2018, as
controller is defined as "the natural or legal person, the public
authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determine
the purposes and manner of personal data processing
character".

2. The issue of making unsolicited communications with anyone
means of electronic communication, without human intervention, for purposes
direct commercial promotion of products or services and for any kind
advertising purposes, is regulated in article 11 of Law 3471/2006 on
personal data protection in the field of electronic communications,
which incorporated Directive 2002/58/EC into the national legal order.
According to this article, such communication is allowed only if o
subscriber expressly consents in advance. Exceptionally, according to
the no. 11 par. 3 of Law 3471/2006, the electronic contact details
mail obtained legally, in the context of the sale of products or
services or other transaction, may be used for the
direct promotion of similar products or services of the supplier or for
serving similar purposes, even when its recipient
message has not given his consent in advance, under
provided that he is provided with the opportunity in a clear and distinct manner
to object, in an easy way and free of charge, to the collection and use
of his electronic details and this during the collection of the details
contact, as well as in each message, in case the user initially did not have one
disagree with this usage.

 

3

3. Political communication2 is of interest from the point of view of the protection of
of personal data, takes place at any time,
pre-election or not, by political parties, MPs, MEPs,
factions and holders of elected positions in local government or
candidates in the parliamentary elections, the European elections
Parliament and local government elections. These faces
become data controllers, in accordance with Regulation (EU)
2016/679, article 4, para. 7) as long as they define its purpose and method
processing. For example, when MPs or candidate MPs
they receive data from political parties and process it for
their personal political communication, they also become responsible
processing. In this capacity they must be able to demonstrate
compliance with their obligations and processing rules.

4. The conditions for political communication through electronic means without
human intervention are specified in Guidelines 1/20193
issued by the Authority regarding the processing of personal data with
purpose of communication of a political nature, taking into account both the
article 11 of Law 3471/2006, as well as Directive 1/2010 of the Authority for the Policy
communication but also the General Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

5. In this particular case, the complainant sent an SMS message with
content wishes for Easter in the midst of the difficult period of the pandemic
to telephone numbers of people with whom he had personal contact,
including the complainant. This communication does not appear that
carried out in order to promote political ideas, programs
action or other activities in support of the policy
activity
policy formulation
behavior, so that it falls under the concept of political communication.

of the complainant and

                                                           
2 See definition in article 1 par. 2 of Directive 1/2010 of the Authority
3 https://www.dpa.gr/el/enimerwtiko/prakseisArxis/kateythyntiries-grammes-gia-tin-epexergasia-
prosopikon-dedomenon-me-skopo
 

 

4

Therefore, the communication in question does not fall within the scope of the article
11 of Law 3471/2006 (see Considerations 2, 3 and 4).
 

Based on the above, the Authority unanimously considers that the complaint is

disposable.

 

FOR THOSE REASONS

The Personal Data Protection Authority rejects as

unfounded the with no. prot. G/EIS/2764/22-04-2020 complaint against A.

 

The president

 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos

The Secretary
 
 
 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

 

5

