
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/07/2022
                                Strengthen digital sovereignty in schools - Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann visits high school in Edenkoben and finds out about the use of Linux, the school campus and BigBlueButton©
                            LfDI RLPShortly before the holidays, schools are already looking forward to the new school year. For some, this means switching from commercial video conferencing systems to state-owned alternatives, since the temporary toleration of the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information (LfDI) expires at the end of the summer holidays. Prof. Dr. On July 6, 2022, Dieter Kugelmann visited the Südliche Weinstrasse district together with district administrator Dietmar Seefeldt and district councilor Ulrich Teichmann, which has been using open source solutions in digital teaching in some of its schools for many years. In the high school in Edenkoben, which was visited as an example, the students access the school campus, Moodle and BigBlueButton via their own or school tablets. In the OnlyOffice version used in the school campus, they can also work together in groups on documents at the same time. "In terms of their functions, the open source solutions are not inferior to commercial providers," says Prof. Kugelmann, "contrary to some representations, the much-cited "collaborative work" is not only possible with American software programs." As those responsible for the structure at school were able to report, open source solutions offer great advantages in addition to cost advantages and lower susceptibility to viruses, especially with regard to data sovereignty. At the end of June, Prof. Kugelmann had already exchanged views with schoolchildren from the Mainz-Bingen district who had even started a signature campaign for the receipt of their current American video conference solution. "The arguments for keeping the commercial solution by the student group were well researched and documented with practical examples," acknowledges Kugelmann, "a central problem, however, is that schools hardly meet the legal framework defined by the European Court of Justice for the use of these products be able. I was pleased to see how committed the students are to having a say in democracy.” At the meeting in Edenkoben, the high school students confirmed that the systems are stable and that all the functions required for the lesson are user-friendly. The teachers and parents' representatives were also satisfied with the path taken. "In view of the expiry of the toleration of non-European teaching software, we can only encourage schools to try out the digital tools made available by the state impartially," continued Prof. Kugelmann, "the use of data protection-friendly systems provides schools in the state with a more legally secure, cost-effective and promising way". Further information: FAQ on the use of video conference systems and cloud services in the school sector
                                return
                            



