 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.394.1

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

P r e s s e release

 

 
November 26, 2018

 

 

 

 

New data protection tips for young people
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and the Senate Department for
Education, youth and family have a new edition of the data protection brochure for young people
"I search for you. Who are you?” published. The publication gives ten top tips on how
Young people can protect their personal data on WhatsApp, Instagram and Co.
 
Young people are surrounded by digital media in everyday life and most of them are themselves
active a lot online. Concerns about the protection of their personal rights usually play an important role
subordinate role. The specific tips are therefore brief in the brochure
Introductory chapters in which a few sentences explain what is happening with your own
Data happens on social media and who is interested in this data and why. Besides that
young people can find contact points in the brochure where they can get advice and
find support.
 
Sandra Scheeres, Senator for Education, Youth and Family: “We want young people to be part of it
support them to be self-determined, creative and responsible with digital media
to be able to deal with. To do this, they need to know what the risks are and how to protect themselves
be able. The tips in the brochure are very specific and helpful, such as the advice
to use pseudonyms in social networks and to restrict access to data. It
is important to be careful because the internet never forgets.”
 
Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: “Social
Networks have become an integral part of young people's lives. The more important
is to keep pointing out the dangers lurking there. With prohibitions and exalted
However, we will not raise awareness of the risks. The brochure is a
important contribution to sensitize young people to the protection of their data and alternatives
without having to forego the advantages of modern technologies."
 
The brochure "I'm looking for you. Who are you?” was part of the Berlin state program
created by jugendnetz-berlin. It can be obtained as a printed edition from the Berlin Commissioner for
Data protection and freedom of information can be obtained and is free of charge at the information point
Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family available. It is available digitally at:
 
https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/fileadmin/user_upload/pdf/medienkompetenz/2018-BlnBDI-
Brochure_Social_Networks.pdf
 
https://www.berlin.de/sen/jugend/jugend/jugendarbeit/medienbildung/
 
 

 
Responsible: Joachim-Martin Mehlitz

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

   