1/11

 Procedure No.: PS/00225/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 02/05/2019, Mr. A.A.A., on behalf of FACUA - ASSOCIATION OF
CONSUMERS AND USERS IN ACTION (hereinafter FACUA), filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against HOLALUZ-CLIDOM, S.A., with NIF A65445033 (hereinafter HOLALUZ).
The reasons on which the claim is based are, in summary, the following: the
vulnerability of the website https://www.holaluz.com owned by the company by being
exposed the data associated with the CUPS (Universal Supply Point Code),
hundreds of users; Anyone who accesses the aforementioned website can know
the volume of electrical consumption produced in any building with only
enter the address of the property that interests you and have access to data that
only the owner of the supply should know.
Attached as a single document is a video certified by the company save the
proof.com (which according to its website certifies the content of web pages and files with
legal validity), in which you can see the operation of the web in what is
refers to the above.
Likewise, the claimant provides a document in which he declares that he has sent an e-mail on
01/28/2019 to the respondent in which he reported the facts stated
previously, without a response to it; attach a copy of the email
email, as well as the HOLALUZ social network twitter profile.
SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:
On 02/26/2019, the claim presented was transferred to HOLALUZ for analysis and
communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision sent to the claimant
regarding the transfer of the claim and proof that the claimant
had received notice of that decision.
- Report on the causes that led to the incident that originated the
claim.
- Inform about the measures adopted to prevent their recurrence.
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and
its transfer to the claimed entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

HOLALUZ has not responded to the request for information made by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.
THIRD: On 05/21/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against HOLALUZ.
FOURTH: On 10/04/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement for the alleged infringement of article 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD sanctioned
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned Regulation.
FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on 07/10/2019 stating, in summary, the following: that on the date
12/16/2019 the company CLIDON carried out the transformation from SL to SA and the
modification of its corporate name, becoming HOLALUZ CLIDON;
the error attributed to the alleged lack of notification of the security breach of
personal data, not being true since it was presented on 02/15/2019; the
compliance with data protection regulations by the entity
having established adequate security measures; the absence of infringement
of article 32.1 of RGPD; compliance with the duty to notify the existence of the
security breach; the absence of obligation in the duty to notify the breach of
security to the interested parties; compliance with the duty of collaboration and management of
the security breach; the request for file of the procedure.
SIXTH: On 12/19/2019, the opening of a practice period for
tests, remembering the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by
FACUA - ASSOCIATION OF CONSUMERS AND USERS IN ACTION and its
documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the Services of
Inspection that are part of file E/02128/2019.

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement

PS/00225/2019 presented by CLIDOM ENERGY S.L. (HELLOLIGHT), and the
accompanying documentation.

- By diligence of the instructor, impressions of the

HOLALUZ website screen.

SEVENTH: On 06/29/2020, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense of
that the Director of the AEPD file the claimant for the alleged violation
of articles 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation.
After the period established for this purpose, the respondent has not submitted a written
allegations at the time of issuing this resolution.
EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out, the following have been accredited
proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. FACUA, by means of a letter dated 02/05/2019, filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency against HOLALUZ, as a consequence of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

vulnerability of the website https://www.holaluz.com when the data is exposed
associated with the CUPS of hundreds of users and that anyone who
access the aforementioned website may have knowledge of the electricity consumption that is
occurs at any of the addresses by simply entering the address of the
same.

SECOND. It consists provided by FACUA video certified by the company SAVE THE
PROOF in which you can see the operation of the web in which
specifies step by step what is described in the previous point.

THIRD. It is accredited that FACUA sent HOLALUZ on 01/28/2019 email
email informing of the facts discovered, stating that there has been no
response to it and not knowing if technical action has been carried out to
rectify the alleged facts.

FOURTH. There is evidence of the deed of transformation of the limited company in
corporation, as well as the modification of its corporate name through
public deed, of CLIDOM ENERGY S.L. of 09/16/2019, being renamed
HOLALUZ CLIDOM, S.A.

FIFTH. It is accredited that HOLALUZ on 02/15/2019 notified the AEPD
breach of confidentiality that occurred on 02/14/2019, attaching proof of
presentation of the security breach notification and the annex to the notification of
the same in which it is accredited to have adopted measures of a technical nature and
organizational. It is also recorded that HOLALUZ sent FACUA an email of
02/18/2019 informing of the measures adopted to resolve the incident of
claimed security.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

II

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:
 "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

Article 33 of the RGPD, Notification of a breach of the security of the

personal data to the control authority, establishes that:

"1. In case of violation of the security of personal data, the
responsible for the treatment will notify the competent control authority of
accordance with article 55 without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after you become aware of it, unless it is unlikely
that said breach of security constitutes a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons. If the notification to the control authority does not have
place within 72 hours, must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for
the procrastination

2. The person in charge of the treatment will notify the person in charge without undue delay
of the treatment the violations of the security of the personal data of which
be aware.

3. The notification referred to in section 1 must, at a minimum:
a) describe the nature of the data security breach
including, where possible, the categories and number
approximate number of stakeholders affected, and the categories and approximate number
of affected personal data records;
b) communicate the name and contact details of the data protection delegate
data or another point of contact where further information can be obtained;
c) describe the possible consequences of the breach of the security of the
personal information;
d) describe the measures adopted or proposed by the person responsible for the
processing to remedy the data security breach
including, if applicable, the measures taken to mitigate the
possible negative effects.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

4. If it is not possible to provide the information simultaneously, and to the extent
where it is not, the information will be provided gradually without delay
improper.
5. The data controller will document any violation of the
security of personal data, including the facts related to it, its
effects and corrective measures taken. Such documentation will allow the
control authority verify compliance with the provisions of this article.

And article 34, Communication of a breach of data security

data to the interested party, establishes that:

"1. When the data security breach is likely
entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical data, the data controller will communicate it to the interested party without delay
improper.

2. The communication to the interested party contemplated in section 1 of this
article will describe in clear and simple language the nature of the violation of the
security of personal data and will contain at least the information and
measures referred to in article 33, section 3, letters b), c) and d).

3. The communication to the interested party referred to in section 1 will not be

required if any of the following conditions are met:

a) the data controller has adopted technical protection measures
and organizational measures and these measures have been applied to the data
affected by the violation of the security of personal data,
in particular those that make personal data unintelligible for
anyone who is not authorized to access them, such as encryption;
b) the data controller has taken further steps to ensure
that there is no longer the probability that the high risk for the
rights and freedoms of the interested party referred to in section 1;
c) involves a disproportionate effort. In this case, you will choose instead
by a public communication or similar measure by which it is reported
equally effectively to stakeholders.
4. When the person in charge has not yet communicated to the interested party the
violation of the security of personal data, the control authority, once
Considering the probability that such a violation involves a high risk, it may require
to do so or may decide that any of the conditions mentioned in
section 3”.

The GDPR defines security breaches of personal data as
those incidents that cause the accidental destruction, loss or alteration or
illicit personal data, as well as unauthorized communication or access to the
themselves.

III

Since last 05/25/2018, the obligation to notify the Agency of breaches
or security breaches that could affect personal data is applicable to
any controller of personal data processing, which underlines the
importance that all entities know how to manage them.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

Consequently, as soon as the data controller has
knowledge that a data security breach has occurred
must, without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours
after you have become aware of it, notify the security breach of
personal data to the competent control authority, unless the
responsible can demonstrate, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility, the
Unlikely that the breach of the security of the personal data will entail a
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

The data controller must inform the interested party without delay
improper violation of the security of personal data in the event that it may
pose a high risk to your rights and freedoms, and allow you to take the
necessary precautions. The communication must describe the nature of the violation
of the security of personal data and the recommendations so that the person
affected physical condition mitigates the potential adverse effects resulting from the violation.

Said communications to the interested parties must be made as soon as possible.
reasonably possible and in close cooperation with the supervisory authority,
following its guidelines or those of other competent authorities, such as the
police authorities. Thus, for example, the need to mitigate a risk of damage and
immediate damages would justify a quick communication with the interested parties,
while it is possible to justify that the communication takes more time due to the need to
apply appropriate measures to prevent data security breaches
continuous personal or similar.

It should also be noted, that notification of a security breach
implies analyzing the diligence of the person in charge or, where appropriate, in charge/s and the measures
applied.

Article 33 of the RGPD establishes the way in which a notification must be made.

violation of the security of personal data to the control authority.

And article 34 of the mentioned Regulation indicates when it is necessary

report a violation of the security of personal data to the interested party.

In this same sense, it is stated in Recitals 85 and 86 of the RGPD:

(85) If adequate measures are not taken in time, violations of the
security of personal data can lead to physical damage,
material or immaterial for natural persons, such as loss of control over their
personal data or restriction of their rights, discrimination, usurpation of
identity, financial loss, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, damage
for reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy,
or any other significant economic or social damage to the natural person in
question. Consequently, as soon as the data controller has
knowledge that a data security breach has occurred
personal data, the controller must, without undue delay and, if possible, no later than
72 hours after you have been aware of it, notify the violation of the
security of personal data to the competent control authority, unless

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

the person in charge can demonstrate, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility,
the improbability that the breach of the security of the personal data will entail
a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. yes said
notification is not possible within 72 hours, it must be accompanied by a
indication of the reasons for the delay, information being able to be provided in phases without
more undue delay.

(86) The controller must notify the data subject without delay
improper violation of the security of personal data in the event that it may
pose a high risk to your rights and freedoms, and allow you to take the
necessary precautions. The communication must describe the nature of the violation
of the security of personal data and the recommendations so that the person
affected physical condition mitigates the potential adverse effects resulting from the violation.
Said communications to the interested parties must be made as soon as possible.
reasonably possible and in close cooperation with the supervisory authority,
following its guidelines or those of other competent authorities, such as the
police authorities. Thus, for example, the need to mitigate a risk of damage and
immediate damages would justify a quick communication with the interested parties,
while it is possible to justify that the communication takes more time due to the need to
apply appropriate measures to prevent data security breaches
continuing personal or similar.

IV

In the present case, the claimed facts suggested that on the website
ownership of the claimant had been exposed the data associated with the CUPS of
hundreds of users; the claimant states that any person who accessed
to the aforementioned website could know the volume of electricity consumption that occurs in
any property by simply entering the address of the property that interests you and
have access to data that only the owner of the supply should know.

Likewise, it was pointed out in Fact Two of the agreement to start the
sanctioning procedure that the respondent had not notified the supervisor of the
bankruptcy that had been revealed to him by the claimant, nor had he given
response to the information request made by the AEPD.

It should be noted that in light of the documents provided, such as the
entity claimed has indicated and this is stated in the proven facts that on 02/15/2019
notified the AEPD of the incident detected and reported by FACUA, attaching the
proof of presentation of the security breach notification and the annex to the
notification accrediting having adopted measures of a technical nature and
relevant organizations.

It also provided the response that was offered to FACUA by email
email dated 02/18/2019 informing them of the situation, despite the fact that FACUA has
pointed out that the merchant had not proceeded to attend to his messages.

In the first place, it should be noted that the transfer of data by the
energy distributors and their subsequent treatment by the
marketers of the energy sector is authorized by Law 54/1997, of
December 27, of the Electricity Sector and in Law 34/1998, of October 7, of the Sector

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

of hydrocarbons. In accordance with the aforementioned rule, the personal data of the
users could be obtained from supply point databases. The
entities of the sector had to have a database called System of
Supply Point Information (SIPS) containing a series of technical data and
of the holders of the gas and electricity supply points.

Royal Decree 1074/2015, of November 27, which modifies
certain provisions in the electricity sector, established a new wording of the
Article 7 of Royal Decree 1435/2002, of December 27.

In this way, neither the trading companies nor the CNMC can access
from the modification to any information that identifies the holder of the point of
supply, and in particular to the data collected c), z) and aa) of section 1, that is:

“c) Location of the supply point, including full address (type of
street, street name, number, floor and door). This information must refer to all
moment to the point of supply and not to the location, population and province of the holder of
said supply point that is required in letter aa) of this same article.

z) Name and surnames, or where applicable company name and corporate form, of the

owner of the supply point.

aa) Full address of the owner of the supply point. This information
must refer at all times to the owner of the supply point and not to the location,
population and province of said supply point that is required in letter c) of this
same item”

This information continues to be held by the distribution companies, which no longer

will be made available to marketers or the CNMC from that moment.

Therefore, with the new regulation it was not possible to access any information

that directly identifies the owner of the supply point.

The defendant is a company that sells electricity and gas. In
under Royal Decree 1435/2002, of December 27, which regulates the
basic conditions of contracts for the purchase of energy and access to
low voltage networks, and in accordance with the above, has access to the
Supply Point Information System (SIPS), that is, data set
that collects the power, the consumption of the users, etc., so that the
marketers can make personalized offers.

In the present case, so that a client could consult the rate to be contracted
must include in the form that appears on the web page the postal address of the point
of supply or the Unified Code of Supply Point and, selecting the dwelling
or premises in which the client wants to request the supply, the web page processes a
series of data suggesting to the client an estimated fee.

Therefore, the only data that the client accesses when performing the calculation is:
the estimated quota (which is calculated taking into account certain data internally
without the client being able to know them and using a series of algorithms) and CUPS
which is encrypted; in any case once the above measures have been adopted

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

the volume of consumption of the home or premises, the CUPS number, the
current contracted power, etc.

The respondent has stated that he decided not to include the data of the "power
contracted" in order to protect consumer information, although
has received complaints from its clients for not providing said data since
consider that they need such information for the evaluation of the process of
contracting and the simulation of the estimated quota.

Therefore, through the information provided when performing said calculation,

consumption habits, contracted power, etc. can be known.

On the other hand, the respondent has indicated that access to CUPS, power
contracted, etc. It was only possible with certain knowledge of programming and
using malicious mechanisms to obtain information.

However, the respondent had established certain precautions; so in the
website interested parties accept, by accessing and using it, the conditions
established in the "Legal Notice" indicating in its point 5, that the users of the web
undertake to use the website correctly, diligently and lawfully, in accordance with
accordance with the law.

There is also no evidence that the information of the
users having massively extracted data. The defendant himself has
pointed out the impossibility that this could happen by having implemented measures
of security that limited in time the number of times that the same IP could
consult various offers through the web and by entering different addresses or
CUPS and that said verification was carried out by analyzing the evolution of the visits
to the website and the hiring form and that there was comparatively no
increased but remained constant over time.

Likewise, it is necessary to bear in mind the Judgment of the Contentious-
Administrative Court of the National High Court of 02/25/2010 (Appeal 226/2009), in its
Foundation of Law Fifth, provides:

“In the present case, the result is the consequence of an activity of
intrusion, not protected by legal system and in that sense illegal, of a third party
with high computer technical knowledge that breaking the systems of
established security accesses the database of registered users in
www.portalatino.com, downloading a copy of it. And such facts
can be imputed to the appellant entity because, otherwise, the
guilt principle.

The principle of guilt, provided for in article 130.1 of Law 30/1992,
provides that they can only be sanctioned for acts constituting an infraction
administrative those responsible for them, even by way of simple non-compliance.
This simple non-observance cannot be understood as the admission in the right
administrative sanction of strict liability, which is proscribed, after
of the STC 76/1999, which stated that the principles of the field of criminal law are
applicable, with certain nuances, in the sanctioning administrative field, requiring
the existence of intent or fault. In this line the STC 246/1991, of December 19,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

pointed out that culpability constitutes a basic principle of administrative law
sanctioning Guilt, which does not concur in the conduct analyzed by Portal Latino.”

Finally, the respondent created a formal commission to formalize and manage
an action plan adopting a series of measures in order to deal with the
possibility of accessing the information and whose result was the encryption of the
data with the aim that not even a person who acted maliciously and with
willingness to hack the web could have access to CUPS, contracted power and
actual consumption of a dwelling.

Regarding the second of the infractions that the defendant would have committed,
not having proceeded to comply with the obligation to notify the security breach
as required by article 33 of the RGPD, as previously mentioned
It is proven that the notification was carried out through the
Authorized Electronic Address of the AEPD. At the same time, after notification of the
gap and its analysis, a written response was given to the complainant, FACUA.

The third presumed infraction that the defendant would have committed would be the
compliance with the obligation to notify the security breach to the
interested parties, in accordance with article 34 of the RGPD. However, in the
notification of 02/15/2019, the respondent states that he has carried out an internal analysis
determining that the necessary elements did not concur to have to carry out
carry out a notification of the incident to the interested parties, verify that there were no
evidence that information extraction had been carried out and that there was no
a high risk for the rights and interests of those affected.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

 
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE HOLALUZ-CLIDOM S.A., with NIF A65445033, for the
alleged infringement of articles 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4 of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to HOLALUZ-CLIDOM S.A., with NIF
A65445033.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

