  Saturday, September 7, 2019 2: Press releases Facebook dating – a clear turnoff from a data protection perspective The social network Facebook has announced a new service: Facebook dating. The introduction in Europe is planned for 2020, in the USA the service can already be used. Privacy advocates like Marit Hansen take a critical view of this new offer. Every dating service is based on personal data. As a rule of thumb, people are a good match if they have common interests and are psychologically on the same page. Many Facebook users enter their interests, and Facebook also carries out detailed analyzes to enable customized advertising. For the Facebook mechanism, it makes no difference whether products are to be conveyed to the right customers or partners are to be brought together: psychological profiles are helpful for both.

Marit Hansen, Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection, comments: "The analysis of psychological characteristics and other sensitive information is not new territory for Facebook: In 2017 it was announced that an Australian researcher at Facebook was developing algorithms to determine whether the teenage users felt anxious, nervous, stressed, stupid, insecure, worthless, or a failure. A year ago, Facebook targeted gay young people with “Gay Cure” ads – such ads explaining how they can supposedly be “cured” of their sexual preference and giving the impression that there is something wrong with you. These manipulative advertisements were only stopped after a tip from the media. According to media reports, Facebook also uses artificial intelligence processes in some countries to recognize moods based on postings or photos - including depression or the risk of suicide. Facebook is now going one step further and asking users who are interested in dating themselves in order to find suitable partners on this basis. In a "Secret Crush" list, you can enter which of your friends you secretly have a crush on. In the user questions it is z. B. about what you are passionate about, what you are grateful for, which goal you have not yet reached or what you cannot do at all. Hansen assesses this as follows: “These are somewhat more in-depth personality questions that make it possible to get to know a person and all of their facets better – both for interested placement candidates and for Facebook itself. Will this information form the basis for targeted advertising in the future? It would be easy to exploit the insecurities and weaknesses of people that they have revealed themselves or that have been discovered by the algorithm – then the floodgates would be wide open to manipulating people.” The dating service can result in users providing Facebook with additional data, e.g . B. Location data that can be evaluated for the pairing, or content of your own Instagram user account that can be integrated there. Hansen criticizes the new service: “Facebook already has a huge amount of information about users – including interests and psychological assessments. With the dating function, there will be even more. However, the scandals surrounding Facebook in recent months and years have clearly shown that the platform repeatedly has major security and data protection deficiencies. Just a few days ago, the discovery of a database with 419 million entries on Facebook user IDs and telephone numbers that was freely available on the Internet became known. If user data isn't secure on Facebook, I don't have confidence that the company will protect sensitive dating information well enough. Otherwise the first databases with "Secret Crush" lists or psychological profiles of Facebook members will soon appear on the Internet. My advice: Only entrust data for finding a partner to data protection-compliant and trustworthy services without security problems - stay away from Facebook dating and other providers without sufficient protection." If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
E-mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: Facebook, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Short report on the conformity of the operation of Facebook fan pages with data protection law Property tax reform 2022 - responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?! “ on September 12, 2022 in Kiel