1/9

 File No.: PS/00159/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A., B.B.B., C.C.C., D.D.D., E.E.E., F.F.F., G.G.G., H.H.H., I.I.I., J.J.J.,
L.L.L., M.M.M., N.N.N. and O.O.O., and on their behalf and representation P.P.P., lawyer
of the ICAS, with collegiate number ***NUMBER.1 (hereinafter, the claimant party),
On November 18, 2020, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency
Data Protection. The claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF
MARCHENA with NIF P4106000E (hereinafter, TOWN HALL). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are as follows:

On 08/20/2020, it was published in the BOP nº 193 of Seville, Mayor's Resolution
on the provisional system of organization of Local Police services of
Marchene. Said resolution publishes the name and surnames, as well as the indicative
associated with each of the agents of the entire staff, as well as the groups of
work of which each agent will be part.

Literally the resolution states:
“That in relation to the express power to make a decision that to the best of knowledge and understanding
of the undersigned considers it more suitable for the formation of the groups that are
determined in the quadrant, we proceed to the configuration of the new groups,
leaving these as follows:
a) Working group number 1 will be made up of the following Police officers
Venue: ***GROUP.1.
b) Working group number 2 will be made up of the following Police officers
Venue: ***GROUP.2.
c) Working group number 3 will be made up of the following Police officers
Venue: ***GROUP.3.
d) Working group number 4 will be made up of the following Police officers
Venue: ***GROUP.4.
e) Working group number 5 will be made up of the following Police officers
Venue: ***GROUP.5.

Likewise, the annual quadrant of services is published, indicating in each group if the
service is provided in the morning, afternoon or evening, thus making public when
each agent is serving personally.

Along with the claim, a copy of BOP No. 193 of Seville is provided.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 12/14/2020 said claim was transferred to the
CITY COUNCIL, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer was sent on 12/14/2020 through the Notification Service
Electronic and Electronic Address Enabled, being notified on 12/14/2020.

On 02/03/2021, this Agency received a written response indicating:

-The published resolution establishes a system for organizing and planning
Local Police services, being dictated by the Mayor's Office in the exercise of its
functions, for the satisfaction of legitimate interests and public interest, according to
provides the art. 21.1i) of Law 7/1985, of April 2, regulating the Bases of the
Local Regime, being therefore lawful the treatment by application of article 6.1 of the
GDPR.
This resolution disseminates issues of interest to local police officers, such as
as the annual quadrant of services and the days that they correspond to work, being
therefore a lawful treatment as it is useful information for them and for the
service organization.

-The publication of the resolution of the Mayor's Office is also carried out within the scope of the Law
19/2013, of December 9, on transparency, access to public information and good
government, and the general principles of active advertising, being applicable the
criterion to be taken into consideration of article 15.2, which provides:
"In general, and unless in the specific case prevails the protection of
personal data or other constitutionally protected rights on the interest
public in the disclosure that prevents it, access will be granted to information that
contains merely identifying data related to the organization,
public functioning or activity of the body".
The identification data of the local police officers contained in the resolution are
legitimized in accordance with the aforementioned legal precept, because the public interest prevails in the
disclosure of information that is of interest to them and to the police service
local, and therefore does not imply any risk situation for the claimants who
make your fundamental right to data protection prevail.

-It is not true that, as the complainants say, that the shifts have been published
agents' specific work schedules (morning, afternoon or night), this quadrant only
sets the work day, but not the shift. Furthermore, the resolution does not contain the
domiciles of officials, so their residence cannot be known.

-No sensitive data has been published, such as ideology, union affiliation,
religion, beliefs, racial origin..., or data for police purposes, or derived from
gender violence.

-Given that the claimants do not agree with the published resolution, from the
City Council is going to proceed to request the Ministry of the Presidency,
Public and Interior Administration of the Junta de Andalucía, the reassignment of numbers
of professional identification of the Agents of the Local Police of Marchena, in order to
respond to your request.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

THIRD: On February 18, 2021, the application was admitted for processing.
claim filed by the claimant.

FOURTH: On December 3, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the CITY COUNCIL,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
RGPD, and Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: After the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
agreement to initiate the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that in the Official Gazette of the Province of Seville
number 193, dated 08/20/2020, Mayor's Resolution on the system was published
provisional organization of local police services in Marchena. Bliss
resolution publishes the name and surnames, as well as the police code associated with
each of the agents of the entire staff, as well as the work groups of which
each agent will be part.

SECOND: It is stated, according to the statement of the CITY COUNCIL itself, that since
the complaining party does not agree with the published resolution, it will proceed to
request the Ministry of the Presidency, Public Administration and Interior of the Board
of Andalusia, the reassignment of professional identification numbers of Agents
of the Marchena Local Police, in order to attend to your request.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

The CITY COUNCIL is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD.

II

Article 5.1.f) RGPD states that:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”).”

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the
offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the
that are contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the statute of limitations, article 72 “Infringements considered
very serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

It has been shown that the personal data of the members of the staff
of the local police of the TOWN HALL have been accessible to third parties, due to
the publication in the BOP of the Mayor's Resolution, in which, together with the
The professional identification of each police officer also includes their name and surnames, information
the latter that should not have been published, taking into account what is established
in article 13 of Decree 250/2007, of September 25, which establishes the
uniformity of the Andalusian Local Police:

“Article 13 Professional accreditation document
1. All personnel belonging to the Local Police Forces, for their
personal identification, will be provided with a professional accreditation document
issued by the mayor's office, according to the official model, whose design and technical characteristics
will be determined by Order of the Ministry of the Interior, which will include
the name of the municipality, name and surname of the agent, category, number of
professional identification and National Identity Document number.
2. The identification number that will appear on the accreditation document
professional will be assigned by the Ministry of the Interior.
3. The professional accreditation document must be carried when you are on
service and will have to be displayed when necessary for the service.
4. Personnel who are out of service may only use the identification document
professional accreditation, exceptionally, when you have to act in defense of the
legality or citizen security.
5. Personnel who are in the administrative situation of second activity
will be provided with a professional accreditation document in which it appears, in addition to
of what is stated in section 1 of this article, which is in said situation
administrative.
6. The municipal security personnel, in the exercise of the functions attributed to the
members of the Local Police Forces, must be identified by means of a
accreditation document of their status as municipal security guard, whose design and
technical characteristics will be determined by Order of the Ministry of
Government, which will contain the name of the municipality, the official, number of
identification as an agent and number of the National Identity Document”.

Therefore, the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is accredited.

III

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:
Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

IV

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the infractions
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.
(…)

The fact of having jointly published the names and surnames of the policemen,
attached to your professional identification number indicates that the CITY COUNCIL does not
had the appropriate technical and organizational measures. Also, by posting
the work quadrants and work groups, each police officer is associated with the
provision of its services at a given time, which entails a risk
additional staff. For all these reasons, the infringement of the aforementioned article is considered to have been committed.
32 of the GDPR.

v

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

SAW

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the MARCHENA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P4106000E, by
an infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

IMPOSE the MARCHENA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P4106000E, for a
infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MARCHENA CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-231221

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

