1/20

968-150719
Procedure No.: PS/00401/2018

RESOLUTION R/00411/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00401/2018, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to SANTI 3000, S.L. (THE OLIVE RESTAURANT),
In view of the claim presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 1, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against SANTI 3000, S.L.
(THE OLIVE RESTAURANT). Once the start agreement was notified and after analyzing the
arguments presented, on July 22, 2019, the proposal for
resolution transcribed below:

<<
Procedure no.: PS/00401/2018

926-160419

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

 On 05/14/2018, a claim was received from A.A.A. (claimant),
FIRST:
stating “I work as a waiter at Santi 3000, S.L. in Rambla de Santa Monica, 22
of Barcelona”, restaurant in which “apparently video cameras have been installed
surveillance” and “I have been recorded and those recordings have been used inside and outside the
to impose disciplinary sanction in the workplace.”

He adds that “I have not been informed of their existence and although they are
visible, the truth is that the businessman said that they do not work, but he has provided those

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

recordings to disciplinary file.”, “in any case there is no informative label
some despite being installed in a center open to the public.”

Provides letter delivered by SANTI 3000 SL, dated 04/30/2018, in which in application
of the disciplinary power is informed that "it has decided to sanction him for the commission of
different facts that constitute violations of their obligations, which will be
qualified as stated in this document" The letter indicates "The past
04/23 was communicated by the staff of the premises to the direction of the company the
commission of a series of acts…” First: Video of 02/8/2018 around 12 noon in the
who is talking on a mobile phone organizing documents outside the
company... Second: Video of 02/14/2018 around 12:30 in which he is out of
their place of work, carrying out in the middle of the street and in front of the door of the premises
repair and/or modification of the rear-view mirror of a motorcycle…”follow videos from 02/15/2018
outside his workplace, on the terrace and not the living room, fourth video of
02/22/2018...eating on the terrace, 01/18/2018 (could be 2 not 1) doing
bodybuilding, video from 03/29/2018 at 12:15 “you transport drinks to another place that is not
where he is working. In another video of the same day and time, you continue transporting
in this case, cardboard boxes to a third-party location where he works” “video from 02/22/2018 at 2:00 p.m.
finds himself outside his workplace again, on the terrace being his workstation
in the classroom"

The letter communicates the imposition of a sanction of 45 days of suspension of employment

and salary, with effect from 04/30 to 06/13/2018.

SECOND: On 06/19/2018, the AEPD transfers the claimed SANTI 3000, S.L.
(LA OLIVA RESTAURANT) a writing with the literal:

“This Agency has received a communication in which it is shown
the existence of a video surveillance installation of its ownership, which presents some
deficiencies in compliance with the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, which can be consulted on the website www.aepd.es, through the section
Areas of action (video surveillance).

So that the Agency can assess the actions carried out by you
for the adequacy of the system to the aforementioned requirements, I require that, within the maximum period
of one month from receipt of this notification, send to this Agency
detailed documentation that can prove that the aforementioned installation is in accordance with the
data protection regulations and that, in particular, is duly marked and has been
limited the capturing of images of adjoining land and houses or of any other
foreign space, providing recent graphic documents duly dated. “

On 07/30/2018, the claimed SANTI 3000, Restaurante la Oliva contributes in its

response:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

a) Photograph of video surveillance zone information in which Zone appears
LOPD video surveillance, you can exercise your rights before "La Rambla 22", and a CIF. the photo is
at the entrance door of the bar called “La Oliva”. The image is undated.

a)

Image taken with camera 3, from inside the establishment in which
panoramic form includes the dining room where the tables are located. The image is dated
05/07/2018.

THIRD: On 08/27/2018, the AEPD requests the respondent, on the same
establishment:

“You must provide images that reproduce the field of view of all the cameras
that make up your video surveillance system (including outdoor cameras), as well as
must certify the inclusion of the name of the person in charge of the system in the posters that
has exhibits in which it warns of the existence of a video surveillance area and finally
You must provide the documentation that proves that you have informed your workers of the
purpose of labor control through the processing of data carried out through the
cameras of your video surveillance system.”

 On 09/17/2018, the respondent contributes

-Copy of the sheet called "consent for data processing" "Video surveillance
and/or labor control” in which as of 04/09/2018 they appear on individual sheets, the form
signed by employees (18) among them is not the claimant. The document indicates:

“SANTI 3000 is responsible for processing the personal data of the interested party and
The following information is provided on the processing of images obtained by the
video recording implanting in the organization. Purposes of the treatment: activity control
internal for reasons of security and/or labor control. Rights that assist you “You can exercise
the rights of access, rectification, portability and deletion of data and those of limitation and
opposition” , indicating the address Rambla 66. If you consider that the treatment does not conform to
current regulations may file a claim with the control authority.

“By signing this informative clause, the undersigned person is considered

informed and consents to the aforementioned treatment in the terms set forth”

It is not identified in which establishment the employees who sign the form provide services.
document, if the one at Rambla de Santa Mónica 22, Restaurante la Oliva, or the one at Ramblas 66
nor is the establishment that records the images and the indication of the provision of the service identified.
consent exceeds the legitimacy in the implementation of the system

-Photo from camera 1 (rte. la Oliva) that collects images from 08/30/2018, interior space, of the
kitchen.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

-Photo from camera 2 (arte. la Oliva) that collects images from 08/30/2018, interior space of
employee traffic.

-Photo from camera 3 (arte. la Oliva) that collects the image of the interior space, of the public,
tables in the existing common area as soon as you enter the establishment.

-Poster photo (arte. la Oliva) different from the one provided above. Now there is SANTI SL,
Rambla 66, and allusion to the new RGPD for the purpose of protecting the facilities
as well as the people who are in them, headquarters before which to exercise rights:
Rambla 66, and the availability of the information sheet.

FOURTH: The AEPD sends the requested letter on 10/31/2018 with the literal:
“You must provide images that reproduce the field of view of all the cameras
OUTDOORS that make up your video surveillance system, you must also provide the
documentation that proves that you have informed the claimant (who worked in your company) of
the purpose of labor control through the processing of data carried out through the
cameras of your video surveillance system.”

The respondent sends a letter dated 11/5/2018 stating:

“This company has never had video surveillance cameras (or any kind)
installed outside the establishment. In previous answers, they were already attached
the captures of images of the cameras that this company has installed in the
establishment. You cannot contribute more images because you do not have more cameras installed and
never had them.”

Regarding the information to the employees of the use of the purpose of labor control
through the processing of data they state that they have provided the "communications made
to all active workers in the company and some of the workers who are no longer
in the company (we don't change staff much). We do not know who the "claimant" is (who
worked in your company)”, since in none of the communications that have been sent
identifies him.”

FIFTH: The axexor-monitoriza website is accessed, which gathers information on companies,
and data from the commercial register, knowing that the claimed company is an SL, with
corporate purpose of Restaurants and food stalls, SME size, "small", type
“autonomous” (that company that is completely independent or that has one or more
minority shareholdings, each of less than 25% in other companies, according to
defines the Commission's recommendation of 05/06/2003 on the definition of micro-enterprises,
small and medium enterprises (Official Gazette of the European Union 20/5/2003). It has
31 employees and a profit for the year 2016 of €378,666, in 2017: €176,260 and a figure of
business of €2,588,431 in 2016 and €2,393,428 in 2017.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

SIXTH: It can be seen on GOOGLE maps, that in front of La Oliva bar, on Rambla Santa Mónica
22, there is a large terrace. On the other hand, consulted the background management database
of procedures, the respondent does not have any.

SEVENTH: On 04/1/2019 it was agreed by the director of the AEPD: “START
SANTITION PROCEDURE to SANTI 3000 S.L., for the alleged infringement of the
article 5.1 a) of the RGPD punishable in accordance with the provisions of art. 83.5 of the cited
RGPD” , and “for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be 5,500 euros, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.”

EIGHTH: On 04/29/2019, allegations were received from the respondent indicating:

On the date indicated in the sanction letter, February 2018, the chambers
1)
they were mounted in the same current location, but they weren't installed, they didn't pick up
any image because they did not have the necessary software or hardware for that function.
Due to technical problems it was not possible at the time of its assembly.

They began to be operational on 04/09/2018. He states that he provides as evidence a
report of the technician who made the physical connection of the cameras and configuration of the
software. This is a report issued on 04/15/2019 by the "technical installer of
video surveillance systems according to law 25/2009 of 12/22/2009”, stating about
the installation of the La Oliva bar on Rambla 22, which "the technician visited on
04/09/2018 for the configuration of the recordings and the internet visualization of the
video surveillance system because it was disconnected and misconfigured.

It adds that the recordings to which the claimant refers were not made
1)
by the video surveillance cameras of the bar but with the private mobile phone of a
employee, B.B.B., “tired of having to make up for the claimant's resignation and
his continuous absences from his job”, the images not being known
by the company up to two months after the events occurred, when the employee
informed the company of the facts and delivered the recordings.

Attached is a copy of document 2, dated 04/02/208 of the aforementioned employee in which he indicates that
“as responsible for the service, the behavior of the worker is intolerable
during the working day” “during the same one is answering calls
phone calls, fixing your motorcycle or transporting merchandise for other
restaurants in the area. The letter indicates that it makes available to the
company the recordings made with your mobile. The respondent indicates that these
are those “used by SANTI 3000 as the basis for the labor sanction imposed on the
claimant”, and recordings 1, 2 and 3 are attached as more
identification, being able if required to provide the rest. Provide a copy of a cd in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

It contains four files. The first one is reproduced and it is observed that in
landscape image and it may be that obtained with a mobile, since it moves
a bit, you see in the video a person dressed as a waiter in the
door of the bar, outside, manipulating, dismantling the mirror of a
motorcycle with a tool, and entering inside. When he walks in, and leaves
zooming in, the device moves more and stops capturing the image. in the second
image obtained from the same place and also possibly with a mobile, is seen
the same person laden with drink cans walking past the door of the bar,
without entering.

In the third, in the part of the kitchen in a corner was the same
person who appears in file 1 writing in a notebook and talking on the mobile.

These three video shots are reported in the disciplinary sanction letter

provided by the claimant.

File 4 is dated 2019, April 12, it is a still image from another point
of view collecting the panorama of the dining room, being one of the images that
gets with the camera inside the bar.

They attach as a contrast to recordings 1 to 3 the recordings identified

1)
as "video camera recording" in order to determine that they do not come from the same device.

It states that they have two work centers as indicated in the agreement,

1)
which is why the Rambla 66 headquarters, which is the administrative headquarters, appears on the poster.

Clarifies that the photograph provided on 07/30/2018 of the “video surveillance zone” sign was
1)
taken one or two days after mounting the cameras in February 2018 with
a mobile phone that does not record the date, but since the cameras are not operational until
afterward, the warning was not necessary.

When the cameras were connected and started to operate, the installer noticed that
the poster was not suitable, replacing it with the photo that was provided on 09/17/2018,
being the poster replaced on April 20, 22, although they cannot prove it
irrefutably.

The "consent" document signed by the employees and sent to the
1)
AEPD was delivered to all active employees in the company, including the claimant,
who refused to sign, with another employee being a witness (they can provide testimony with their
statement). It states that although there are no security cameras in the Ramblas 66 establishment,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

video surveillance, the document was given to all employees, since sometimes employees
from this they move to the restaurant La Oliva.

The legal basis for the implementation of the system was the security of installations and
1)
goods and labor control considering the application of article 20.3 of the Statute of the
Workers.

NINTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following proven facts:

1) The defendant's corporate purpose is the operation of bars and restaurants,
having two establishments in Barcelona. The claimant, waiter lends
services at the La Oliva bar, at c Rambla de Santa Mónica, 22 in Barcelona”, and states
who has been subject to a disciplinary sanction using "apparently" some images of
videos, without being informed.

1) In the sanction letter provided by the claimant and which was delivered by the claimed
04/30/2018, you are informed that “it has decided to sanction you for the commission of different
facts that constitute breaches of their obligations” “On 04/23 it was
communicated by the staff of the premises to the management of the company the commission of a
series of events
 
 …”First: Video from 02/09/2018 around 12 noon in which
finds himself talking on a mobile phone organizing documents outside the company.
Second: Video of 02/14/2018 around 12:30 in which he is outside his place of
work, carrying out in the middle of the street and in front of the door of the premises repair tasks and/or
modification of the rear view mirror of a motorcycle…”

The letter in the third to seventh points (reaches until 02/22/2018) continues to analyze
videos, relating them to the position in which the employee is located, indicating that
you are outside your workplace, or on the terrace being your workstation in the living room,
that transports drinks to another place that is not where you are working, or that you are eating
on the terrace, at a time that is not authorized to enjoy rest.

The letter communicates the imposition of a sanction of 45 days of suspension of employment and

salary, effective from 04/30 to 06/13/2018.

1) As the first response that the respondent gave to the AEPD, on 07/30/2018, it provides:
-Photograph of video surveillance zone information in which the video surveillance zone appears
LOPD, you can exercise your rights before “La Rambla 22”, and a CIF. The photo is on the door
entrance of the bar called "La Oliva". The image is undated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

-Image collected with camera 3, from inside the establishment in which
Panoramic view includes the dining room where the tables are located. The image is dated
05/07/2018, date on which the video surveillance system in the bar was already working, which according to
the claimed one was launched on 04/09/2018.

1) Requested from the respondent to certify having reported the imaging system
used to sanction the claimant, dated 09/17/2018, the respondent contributes
information documents called “consent to data processing”
“Video surveillance and/or labor control” in which on 04/09/2018 (after the dates of the
images that appear in the letter of sanction) appear in individual sheets, signed
by employees (18) among them is not the claimant communicated information about the
system installed in the bar la oliva de rambla 22. The forms indicate:

“SANTI 3000 is responsible for processing the personal data of the interested party and is
provides the following information on the processing of images obtained by the
video recording implanting in the organization. Purposes of the treatment: activity control
internal for reasons of security and/or labor control. Rights that assist you “You can exercise
the rights of access, rectification, portability and deletion of data and those of limitation and
opposition”, indicating the address Rambla 66. If you consider that the treatment does not conform to
current regulations may file a claim with the control authority.

“By signing this informative clause, the undersigned person is considered

informed and consents to the aforementioned treatment in the terms set forth”

the employees who sign the document usually provide services in both premises of the
claimed, at Rambla de Santa Mónica 22, Restaurante la Oliva, or at Ramblas 66.

Also on 09/17/2018 the respondent provides:

Photo from camera 1 (arte. la Oliva) that collects an image from 08/30/2018, interior space,

from the kitchen.

Photo from camera 2 (arte. la Oliva) that collects an image from 08/30/2018, interior space

employee transit.

Camera photo 3 (arte. la Oliva) that collects the image of the interior space, of the

public, tables in the existing common dining area as soon as you enter the establishment.

Photo poster (arte. la Oliva) different from the one provided above. Now there is SANTI
SL, Rambla 66, and allusion to the new RGPD for the purpose of protecting the
facilities as well as the people who are in them, headquarters before which to exercise
the rights: Rambla 66, and the availability of the information sheet.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

1) The respondent alleges to the initiation agreement that on the date indicated in the letter of
sanction, and in which the obtaining of the images is related, from 9 to 02/22/2018. the
cameras were mounted in the same current location of the bar, but they were not
installed, they did not capture any image, installing and starting up
according to the certificate of the installer technician on 04/09/2018.

1) The respondent reports in pleadings to the agreement that the recordings she makes
referenced by the claimant and that appear in the letter of disciplinary sanction, were not
made by the video surveillance cameras of the bar that in 2/2018 did not work, but
with the private mobile phone of an employee who delivers them to the person claimed. attached
copy of the document of 04/02/208 of the aforementioned employee in which it is indicated that he puts
disposal of the company the recordings made with your mobile. The claim indicates
that these are the ones “used by SANTI 3000 as the basis for the labor sanction imposed
to the claimant”, and recordings 1, 2 and 3 are sent on a CD as an example. in said
CD will contain four files. The three images provided-by way of example, not
contribute more - correspond to those reported in the sanction letter. Plays the
first file, and it is observed in a landscape image, perhaps obtained with a
mobile, since it moves a little, a person dressed as a waiter is seen in the
bar door, outside, manipulating, dismantling the mirror of a motorcycle
with a tool, and entering inside, moment in which as the
device moves more and stops capturing the image. In the second image obtained from
the same place and also possibly with a cell phone, the same person is seen carrying
cans of drinks walk past the door of the bar, without entering.

In the third, in the kitchen area in a corner, is the same person who

appears in file 1, writing down in a notebook and talking on the mobile.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each control authority, and as established
in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

II

For the installation of a video surveillance system for the purpose of controlling the
Compliance with labor obligations does not require the consent of the employees.
employees nor does it constitute per se a legitimate legal basis for it. The legal basis
for monitoring compliance with the obligations entrusted to employees
through said system is not that of consent, since this is not obtained or
lends freely, nor can it be freely withdrawn without any negative consequence, given the
scope of subjection and bonding of employees.

  Workers are almost never in a position to give, deny, or revoke
consent freely, taking into account the dependency resulting from the relationship
employer/worker. Given the imbalance of power, workers can only give their
free consent in exceptional circumstances, when the acceptance or rejection of
an offer has no consequences.

Article 20.3 of the Workers' Statute provides:

The employer may adopt the measures he deems most appropriate for surveillance and
control to verify the fulfillment by the worker of his obligations and duties
labor, keeping in its adoption and application the consideration due to their dignity
and taking into account the real capacity of disabled workers.

The installation for these purposes must be proportional in terms of the
Weighting of the power of direction and control of business activity, with the right to
privacy and the right to know and know by its owner, the use of their data
they are going to do in the employment relationship, as well as predetermining the use and purpose of the data and
the headquarters before which to exercise the rights derived from said collection.

In the present case, it is observed that on the date on which the account of the
facts exposed in the letter of sanction, 9 to 22/02/2018, had not been offered to the
claimant information on the use and purpose of collecting data obtained through the
video surveillance system or similar (in this case since a mobile phone is used and
individual title, only images captured of the claimant.) that have resulted in a loss

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

to the claimant, it has produced the effect of the sanction imposed. Also, the letter of
sanction details that images of the exterior of the establishment, public thoroughfare have been captured
where the claimant has circulated, by detailing in several days and several hours of the day the
movements of the claimant that objectified the sanction.

Although it can be said that the images that objectify the disciplinary sanction are not
obtained with the video surveillance system, which was not implemented, if it can be seen that
come from a mobile phone, of which the claimant did not know its origin, since he indicates in the
claim that they have captured him "it seems to be with cameras that they have installed" in the bar,
because as of 04/09/2018 they began to operate and the letter is delivered after
of that date, in that month.

The Spanish Constitution states in its article 18.1 and 4:

"1. The right to honour, to personal and family privacy and to one's own image is guaranteed.

4. The law will limit the use of information technology to guarantee the honor and personal privacy and
family of citizens and the full exercise of their rights.”

The doctrine of the Constitutional Court, maintains that the execution of the contract of
work does not imply in any way the deprivation for one of the parties, the worker, of the
rights that the Constitution recognizes as a citizen, even though the exercise of such
rights within the productive organization can admit certain modulations or
restrictions, provided that these modulations are based on reasons of necessity
strictly duly justified by the employer, and without sufficient reason to
exclude «a priori» that possible damages to the right to privacy of
workers in the places where the work activity itself is carried out.

For our constitutional jurisprudence, if the right to privacy acts as
barrier against interference or meddling by others (STC 142/1993, of April 22), the
The right to data protection “consists of a power of disposal and control over the
personal data» (SSTC 290 and 292/2000, of November 30); If the right to privacy
prohibits the knowledge by third parties of certain aspects of the person (aspects
intimate or related to their private and family life), the right to data protection
provides guarantees of disposition and control regarding personal data that may
belong or not to the area of intimacy and that can be the object of knowledge and management
by others; if the right to privacy is the right of abstention of others regarding
of our personal sphere, the right to data protection implies above all
self-determination on our data.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

As to whether the system of images used by the respondent constitutes
data processing, and as to whether the responsibility is attributable to the claimed, it is
should point out:

As of the date on which the events occur, instruction 1/2006 specifies the scope of

application of the regulations states in its article 1:

"1. This Instruction applies to the processing of personal data from images of
identified or identifiable natural persons, for surveillance purposes through surveillance systems
cameras and camcorders.

The treatment object of this Instruction includes the recording, capturing, transmission,
conservation, and storage of images, including their reproduction or broadcast in time
real, as well as the treatment that results from the personal data related to them.

A person is considered identifiable when his identity can be determined
through the treatments referred to in this Instruction, without this requiring
disproportionate deadlines or activities.

The references contained in this Instruction to video cameras and cameras will be understood
also made to any analogous technical means and, in general, to any system that
allow the treatments provided for in it.”

On the other hand, if it is not about installing any system, but the purpose is the
labor control, through data collection with another similar system, such as those obtained
with a mobile device, the data protection regulations apply, since
intended to have effects on the claimed-claimant relationship.

Article 1 of the GDPR states:

1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the rules relating to the
free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of

natural persons and, in particular, their right to the protection of personal data.

Article 4 defines:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose
identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction;

7) “data controller” or “controller”: the natural or legal person, authority,
service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means of the
treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the purposes and
means of treatment, the person responsible for treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;”

A mobile recording that collects images of a person that can be
identify falls within that scope. The respondent decides on the purpose and use of
those images obtained by an employee, has carried out data processing of which it is
responsible for having used them, received them, kept them and used them without
The claimant did not know or expect that he was being monitored on a daily basis in several
moments of each day. If those images are used by the claimed in this case, to
produce legal effects within a labor control, with disciplinary sanction, the
data protection regulations and their guarantees are fully applicable, considering
In addition, he neither informed of the data collection nor of the rights associated with said data.
pickup.

In the present case, the images obtained and used reproduced the image
of the claimant and allowed the control of their actions through their image, which
constitutes personal data, and they were used to monitor the
fulfillment of your contract. From the proven facts it can be deduced that the legal entity
owner of the establishment where the claimant provides services was the one who finally used
described the recordings, being responsible for data processing without having
informed the worker about this usefulness of labor supervision associated with the captures of
your image. In this way, he violated art. 18.4 of the Constitution, and specifically its article
5.1 a of the GDPR

1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

loyalty and transparency»);

In the case at hand of the use of the videos transferred by an employee, it does not appear
in justified origin the daily follow-up by another employee of the movements in
the workplace of another worker. Statement by the employee that
"I was fed up with his behavior" and that is why he obtained the images and put them to
disposition of the employer supposes an individualized, personalized, daily and
aimed at recording you when you are apparently not working, when you are outside or
doing other activities that is disproportionate and arbitrary. Isn't that another employee the
who must decide who makes videos or not, to put them in the power of the claimed, because
Apart from assuming an interference in their privacy and image, it is not considered a means
suitable for proving that the defendant had prepared for its operation a system
that it had installed, ready to work and that it postponed, and that it had applied not only to the
claimant but to all employees.

In the present case, the lack of prior information on the use of images, the use of
these obtained from an employee who performs almost daily monitoring in February 2018, the
willingness to use and destination of the video images expressed in the sanction letter
delivered to the employee assumes that there was no legitimate basis at that time
for data processing that occurred with the processing employed. holding back on
the information systems of the claimed party to provide evidence for their actions,
concludes that your personal data has been processed without a legitimate basis by the claimed party,
proving the commission of an inflation of article 5.1 a of the RGPD

It is also applicable for the purpose of use of labor control, article 13 of the
RGPD on information to be provided to the interested party if the data is obtained from it,
as in this case that has labor control purposes in the establishment of performance of
functions, and this even if the worker's consent is not required.

Various sentences of the social order on the use of video surveillance or control of
positioning related to the performance and control of job functions have
indicated that these systems can be used if there is proportionality and
guarantee the rights of employees, beginning with express, clear information
and detailed information on the use, purposes of the system and exercise of employee rights.

Article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates: "Infringements considered very serious

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

Article 58. 2d) and 2.i) of the RGPD indicates:

2. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers

listed below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

Yo)

impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article
83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount”

III

Article 83 of the RGPD indicates: “General conditions for the imposition of fines

administrative:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in
paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case
individually, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its
amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question as well as the number of
affected parties and the level of damages they have suffered;

It is valued in this case that it affects only one employee, the claimant who was
of the recordings, differently from the rest of the employees who were not subject to
any recording, proceeding the recordings of an employee, for several days, being
the level of damages the equivalent of the sanction of 45 days of employment and salary.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

a)

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the person responsible or in charge of the treatment to alleviate the

damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
account of the technical or organizational measures they have applied under articles
25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the

infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular

whether the controller or processor reported the breach and, if so, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the same
matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of

certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly,
through the infringement.”

The LOPDGDD indicates in its article 76: "Sanctions and corrective measures

1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also

may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

Usually, the purpose of the surveillance system with labor control is that by being
operative can be used for it. In this case, the respondent acknowledges that it was not
and yet used footage obtained by one employee to punish another employee.
These elements that were unknown at the beginning have to be valued in their fair term in
these moments.

It must be taken into account:

-Affects only one employee, the claimant, who was the subject of the recordings,
differently from the rest of the employees who were not subject to any recording,
proceeding the recordings of an employee, for several days, being the level of damage
the equivalent to the sanction of 45 days of employment and salary. The claimant has been
sanctioned without knowing the use of the system, nor prior to its use, the purpose for which
intended the data collected, their reasonable expectations of use of images or capturing
did not exist, seeing himself injured with a sanction letter that is based exclusively on
the images, being a considerable damage derived from 45 days without pay, although the
nature and scope of the treatment is admitted by law prior to the information
specific to those affected (83.2.a).

-It must be considered that the use of images for a sanction coming from a
performance whose objective was an individualized person and whose images were collected
by an employee should have raised usage issues to the errand, so
there is a lack of qualified diligence. (83.2.c).

-The defendant is an SME, with 31 employees.

-Due to the activity of the defendant, there was no special connection or
direct link by the type of activity with the processing of personal data
habitually, systematically or professionally, and continuously. With the installation now of the
system that also has the purpose of labor control, has to implement mechanisms
adequate and proportionate to the treatment that does not appear to have been used with the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

For the reasons stated, a penalty of 12,000 euros is proposed.

            In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanctions SANTI 3000, S.L. (LA OLIVA RESTAURANT), with NIF B63354682, by
an infringement of article 5.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
with a fine of €12,000.00 (TWELVE THOUSAND euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
You are informed that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same (2,400.00 euros). With the
application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at 9,600.00 euros and its
payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount
specified above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited,
You must make it effective by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause, by voluntary payment, of reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must
send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within a period of TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

in his defense and present the documents and information that he considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 in relation to art. 73.1 of the LPACAP).

RRR

INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

>>

 : On August 13, 2019, SANTI 3000, S.L. (THE RESTAURANT
SECOND
 
OLIVA) has proceeded to pay the penalty in the amount of 9,600 euros using
of the reduction envisaged in the motion for a resolution transcribed above.
THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00401/2018, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SANTI 3000, S.L. (RESTAURANT
THE OLIVE).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

