1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00113/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure instituted by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data to the entity, SOLRAM T Y R S.L., with CIF.: B67216515, (hereinafter, “the entity
ity claimed"), by virtue of the claim filed by D. AAA, (hereinafter,
“the claimant”), and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 01/03/20, they have entered this Agency, an international claim
put by the claimant), in which, among others, it indicates:

“You were notified on September 23 not to use or save my data with
commercial purposes. On January 02, 2020, it was used again for advertising by
"WhatsApp". He is told again and the next day he sends “WhatsApp” again commercially.
I request that my data be deleted and a sanction for not complying with the law and making me
wasting my time. I have proof of everything said. The number from which
 ***PHONE.1 And they contacted me on my number:
made the contact is:
***PHONE.2”.

Along with the written claim, the screenshots were provided where they appear
various messages exchanged with the entity (person), claimed:

1.- Dated 09/23/19:

Message forwarded by “A.A.A.” to the claimant with the following text:

-

"Good afternoon, friends, take advantage of that day, everything will be at 50%":

In response to the previous message, the complainant sent the message:

-

“Good afternoon, please do not send any advertising message again
as I have not authorized my number to be used for this purpose”

In reply to the previous message “A.A.A.” reply with:

-

"OK thank you"

2.- Dated 01/02/20:

“A.A.A.” sends a new message to the claimant:

-

“SOLHER we wish you a prosperous year and we thank you for your preference.
rence. @solher.es”.

In response to the previous message, the claimant answers:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

-

“On September 23, 2019, you were notified to delete our
data exercising RGPD right. We will proceed tomorrow to
file a complaint for non-compliance with said regulations.

In reply to the previous message “A.A.A.” write:

-

"It's just a happy year, but if it hurts you... even right now it's-
It will be blocked”.

In response to the previous message there is the message:

-

“It is a breach of the GDPR.”

After the previous message "A.A.A.", send a new message with the text:

-

“We invite you to the SOLHER sales WILL BE THIS SATURDAY, JANUARY 4, and
SUNDAY 5 FROM 12 AM TO 6 PM Follow us on our social networks
@solher.es @SOLHER.ec”

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPGDD, which has provided for a
mechanism prior to the admission to processing of the claims that are formulated before
the AEPD, consisting of transferring them to the Data Protection Delegates designated
ned by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes provided in the
Article 37 of the aforementioned rule, or to these when they were not designated, was transferred
side of the claim to the claimed person so that he proceeded to its analysis and die
ra response to the complaining party and this Agency within a month. Thus, with faith
On 12/09/20 and 01/13/21, two requests for information are sent to the person
not claimed.

The notification is made electronically through notific@. According to this system
of notification, there was an automatic rejection in the notification after the elapsed
ten calendar days from its availability.

THIRD: In view of the reported facts and the evidence observed in the
website, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, dated
03/17/21, agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity claimed, by virtue of
of the powers established for violation of article 17 of the RGPD, regarding the lack
exercise due diligence when removing the personal data of the claimant from its databases
of data, with an initial fine of 3,000 euros.

SIXTH: Notification of the initiation agreement to the entity claimed on 03/28/21, no
received in this Agency, no type of allegations to the initiation of file, in the
period granted for this purpose.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- As stated in the claim, the claimant requested that it not be used or
will save your data for commercial purposes. However, the request is ignored.
city and continue to send you advertising messages. All this corroborated by the documentation
statement filed with the claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

2.- In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, this Agency sent various information requests to
the claimed entity that were never answered. There was also no response to
initiation of the sanctioning file, by the entity, within the term
granted for the purpose.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

II

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the Re-
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding
to the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to Data Processing
Personal and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each Authority
of Control and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD).

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, of October 2, 2015, onwards
LPACAP provides that:

“The initiation agreement must contain at least: (…)

f) Indication of the right to make allegations and to be heard in the procedure and
of the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in case of not carrying out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, it may
may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pronouncement
accurate about the imputed responsibility.”

In the present case, such requirements have been observed, since in the agreement of
At the beginning, it was warned of the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, it was specified
the presumed infraction committed together with its corresponding typification, is determined
the amount of the sanction according to the graduation criteria taken into account
based on the evidence obtained to that date, also informing of the
planned reductions on the amount fixed by virtue of the provisions of article
85 of the LPACAP.
      
In consideration of the foregoing and in accordance with the provisions of article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the initiation agreement is considered a Resolution Proposal,
since it contained a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility
tada and, after its notification in the form described in the antecedent of the fourth fact, the
claimed has not made allegations to the same within the period granted for such purposes.
cough.

In the present case, the processing of personal data is denounced, after
ber requested the deletion of the same, from the databases of the claimed entity.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Article 12 of the RGPD, on the exercise of the rights of the interested party, establishes the
Next:

1.- The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
reviewed all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication
cation pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to treatment, concisely
clear, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in particular
cular any information directed specifically at a child. The information will be
requested in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by electronic means.
When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided verbally, always
that the identity of the interested party be proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights in
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2,
The person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise their
rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are not in
conditions to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller shall provide the interested party with information regarding their ac-
situations on the basis of a request under Articles 15 to 22, and, in any
In any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Said term
may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the complexity
ity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of any
of said extensions within a period of one month from receipt of the request, indicating
when the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the request by
electronic, the information will be provided by electronic means whenever possible, to
unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

For its part, Article 17.1. of the RGPD, on the right of suppression ("the right to
oblivion"), states that:

1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the person responsible for the
deleting the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be obliga-
do to delete personal data without undue delay when any of the
following circumstances: a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed; 4.5.2016 L 119/43
Official Journal of the European Union EN b) the interested party withdraws the consent in which
the treatment is based in accordance with article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), and this is not based on another legal basis; c) interest
sado opposes the treatment in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1, and do not prevail
other legitimate reasons for the treatment, or the interested party opposes the treatment
according to article 21, paragraph 2; (…)”

The exposed facts suppose the violation of article 17.1 of the RGPD with respect to the
Article 12 of the same Regulation, since the entity did not act diligently, by
not remove the claimant's personal data from its databases.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the instruction
procedure, in order to set the amount of the penalty to be imposed on the price
In this case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with
the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

-

The duration of the violation, taking into account the scope or purpose of the
treatment operation in question, as well as the damages caused to the
interested, (section a).

The facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence
on the part of the respondent, (paragraph b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with res-
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 17 of the RGPD,
allows setting a penalty of 3,000 euros, (three thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
data protection law,

 :
RESOLVE
 

FIRST: IMPOSE, on the entity, SOLRAM T Y R S.L., with CIF.: B67216515, a
penalty of 3,000 euros (three thousand euros), for violation of article 17 of the RGPD, res-
Regarding the lack of diligence in deleting the personal data of the claimant
of your databases.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity, SOLRAM T Y R S.L. and to
claimant on the outcome of the claim.

Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must be made effective once it is
enforce this resolution, in accordance with the provisions of article 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Ad-
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period indicated in article
68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005,
of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, me-
upon deposit in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened
on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.
 
Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

