

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of personal data when operating an online game (natural person doing business)



Based on the initiative and notification of a security breach, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the subject of which was mainly the security of personal data processed in connection with the operation of an online game.



The inspection proved that the inspected person did not take such measures that could prevent the unauthorized disclosure of personal data. As a result of her actions, login data to the storage where personal data was backed up was obtained. The personal data obtained in this way were subsequently published via the website.



The inspectors also discovered that the inspected person used two processors of personal data without concluding a relevant processing contract with them. In the case of one processor, it was a so-called chaining of processors, as this processor further backed up personal data to a cloud storage provided by another company.



The controlled person violated the obligations set out in Article 28, paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (processing contract) and Article 32 of Regulation (security of personal data) (EU) 2016/679 by the above-mentioned conduct.



Following the above findings, the Office imposed corrective measures consisting in the obligation to conclude a processing contract.



The office will initiate proceedings for an offense in the matter.


The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of personal data security when operating an online game (natural person doing business) View Current Documents | document archive | documents including the archive



