Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
Bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on
organization of taxi services.

Deliberation n° 31/AV26/2021 of October 1, 2021.

In accordance with article 57, paragraph (1), letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter the "GDPR"), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

By letter dated January 27, 2021, Minister of Mobility and Public Works
invited the National Commission to give its opinion on the draft law amending the law of 5 July
2016 on the organization of taxi services (hereinafter the "draft law").

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill aims to remedy certain shortcomings
in the taxi sector as well as to include rental cars with driver (hereafter
“VLC”) in the legislation.

This opinion will limit its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to the
data protection, raised more particularly by articles 11 and 18 of the bill
under notice.

1. On the good repute condition

Pursuant to Article 7, paragraph (2), letter c) of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on
organization of taxi services, as amended by the bill, any taxi driver or
of VLC who wishes to obtain a driver's card must meet the good repute requirements
specified in article 8 of the said law.

The purpose of article 11 of the bill is to amend article 8, paragraphs (1) and (2) of the law of
July 5, 2016 on the organization of taxi services. It appears from the commentary to article 11

[ CNPID

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

1/13

that the authors of the bill introduce in particular "a provision making it possible to assess
the history of a person incurred during the last 5 years preceding a
request ".

A. On the assessment of good repute

It follows from subsection (1) of Section 8, as amended by Section 11 of the Bill, that
good repute is assessed "on the basis of the criminal record resulting" from the criminal record
of the taxi or VLC driver.

Subsection (2) of the aforementioned section 8, as amended by section 11 of the bill, lists
what would be the offenses to be taken into account for the purposes of assessing the good repute of a
taxi or VLC1 driver.

While it should be noted that the aforementioned law does not define the concept of "good repute"2, further details
as to the appreciation of this concept are brought by the parliamentary works relating to
article 8 of the amended law of 5 July 2016 cited above3, as well as by a judgment of the Court
Administrative Order of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018.4

It emerges from parliamentary work that the assessment of the good repute of the taxi driver is
based on "criminal record No. 2 in order to guarantee a high standard of security
for customers"5 and that the "fit and proper requirements are intended to
account, when verifying the award criteria, of any convictions in relation
with the activity of the taxi driver”6. It is further specified that "[b]his in-depth verification
is necessary in order to guarantee a certain level of services and to ensure the seriousness of the
driver who is responsible for the proper transport of his passengers. Moreover, it is thus held
account of the fact that taxi services have a considerable impact on the general image of Grand-
Duchy to foreign visitors”7.

Paragraph (2) of article 8 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of taxi services, as amended by
article 11 of the bill, provides that "[T]he requirements in terms of good repute are satisfied, in particular if the driver of the
taxi or VLC has not been the subject, within the five years preceding the request, of a criminal conviction
res judicata pronouncing a prison sentence of at least six months for theft, fraud, breach of trust, willful attack
personal integrity, sexual assault or drug offence. ".
2 As for the absence of a definition of the concept of “good repute” in Luxembourg law, reference is made to deliberations no. 17/2020
of July 17, 2020 (points 1.2 and 1.3.) and n°3/AV3/2021 of February 10, 2021 (point 1).
3 Parliamentary document n°6588, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
4 Judgment of the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018, number 41156C of the roll.
5 Parliamentary document n°6588/00, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
6 Parliamentary document no. 6588/00, commentary to the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
Parliamentary document n°6588/00, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.

[ CNPE1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

2/13

In addition, the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in its judgment of 8 November
2018 cited above, was called upon to rule on the good repute of an applicant applying for a card
taxi driver in accordance with the amended law of 5 July 2016 on the organization of
tax1s8 services.

In this judgment, the judges considered that the list of offences, referred to in paragraph (2) of
article 8 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 mentioned above, was not to be considered as exhaustive
and that "if the person has been the subject of a criminal conviction, his honorability is not affected
not automatically affected, but it is up to the minister, in the context of the assessment of
the professional integrity of a taxi driver, to assess in concrete terms whether the behavior
overall character of the person concerned is not such as to deprive him of his reputation”.

The Court also held that the assessment of good repute could not relate to facts
committed more than 5 years ago. This principle of temporal limitation, as regards the facts retained in order to
to assess the good repute of a taxi driver, as determined by case law, has been taken up
by the authors of the bill in article 11 of the text under opinion.

Therefore, while the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for these clarifications, the CNPD
regrets that the criminal record bulletin number that would be communicated is not
expressly indicated in the said article whereas it emerges from the aforementioned parliamentary proceedings and
of the aforementioned case law that bulletin no. 2 would be communicated. It should be reminded that
subject than in the Luxembourg legal order, the communication of information relating to
court decisions is made by issuing extracts from the criminal record in accordance with the
amended law of 29 March 2013 relating to the organization of criminal records.

Therefore, it would be appropriate to complete the bill in this sense.

Finally, without prejudging the assessment of good repute in concreto to be made by the minister
having in his competences the law under opinion (hereinafter the "Minister"), and in order to respect the
principle of predictability and precision to which any legal or regulatory text must comply9, the
CNPD wonders whether it would not be appropriate, following the example of Belgian and French legislation, to
provide an exhaustive list of the offenses which would be to be taken into account when assessing
of good repute by the minister?

Judgment of the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018, number 41156C of the roll.

9 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

3/13

B. On the national legal framework compared to that in Belgium and France

It is interesting to note that both Belgian and French law provide for a condition similar to
that required by article 8 of the amended law of 5 July 2016 organizing the services of
taxis, as amended by clause 11 of the bill.

Indeed, in Belgium article 9 of the order of the Walloon Government carrying out the decree
of 18 October 2007 relating to taxi services and car rental services with
driver, as amended, provides that a driver "satisfies the character requirements" if he has not
not been the subject of a serious criminal conviction which has become legally binding for offenses including
listed, namely "1° infringement of Book II, Title III, chapters 1 to V, title V, chapters 1 and 2,
Title VII, Chapter V, Title VIII, Chapters 1 and 2 and Title VIII of the Penal Code; 2° offense of
third and fourth degree to the regulation of road traffic; 3° offense for
speeding ; 4° driving in a state of alcoholic intoxication, alcoholic impregnation,
drunkenness or under the influence of other substances which influence the ability to drive within the framework
of his professional activity”.

In France, article R.3120-8 of the French Transport Code provides that "[n]o one may exercise
the profession of driver of a private public transport vehicle if listed in bulletin no. 2 of
his criminal record, or its equivalent for non-nationals, one of the convictions
following:
1° A final conviction for an offense punishable under the Highway Code by a
halving of the maximum number of driving license points;
2° A final conviction for driving a vehicle without holding a driver's license.
drive corresponding to the category of the vehicle used or for driving despite the cancellation of the
driver's license or despite the prohibition to obtain the issuance of the license, or for refusal
to return his driving license after its invalidation or cancellation;
3° A final sentence pronounced by a court, French or foreign, to a penalty
criminal or a correctional sentence of at least six months' imprisonment for theft,
fraud, breach of trust, willful attack on the integrity of the person, aggression
sex, arms trafficking, extortion or drug offences. »

Contrary to the current national legal framework, the Belgian and French laws exhaustively list
the facts on which the assessment of "morality" or "good repute" will be based
professional "'° of a driver. Therefore, in order to meet the requirements of precision and
predictability to which a legal text must respond", the CNPD wonders if the authors of the
bill should not be based on the aforementioned Belgian and French legal provisions?

1° Article R.3120-6, point 3° of the French Transport Code
11 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015

CNPE1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

4/13

2. On the database dedicated to the daily management of operating licenses

of taxis and VLC as well as those of driver cards

It should be noted that the principle of creating a personal data bank
held by the Minister and dedicated to the day-to-day management of taxi operating licenses has been
introduced by article 18 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of the services of
cabs.

Article 23 of the bill, however, intends to carry out a complete overhaul of these
provisions. The National Commission regrets that the reasons which led the authors of the project
of law to carry out such an overhaul are not set out in the commentary to the articles,
while the new provisions lack clarity and precision, unlike those
which originally appeared in the aforementioned article 18.

A. Preliminary remarks

It should be recalled that keeping a file of personal data collected and
processed by an administrative authority must have a legal basis in accordance with Article
6 paragraph (3) GDPR.

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest or
relating to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In
these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be defined either by the law of the European Union or by the law of the State
member to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should "[...] belong to Union law or
the right of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this right could
specify the general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of
personal data, establish the specifications aimed at determining the person responsible for the
processing, the type of personal data being processed, the persons
concerned, the entities to which the personal data may be
communicated, purpose limitations, retention period and other measures aimed at
to guarantee lawful and fair processing. [...]".

Pursuant to the above provisions, these legal bases should establish provisions
specific aims to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons
concerned, the entities to which the data may be communicated and for which

[ CNK1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

5/13

purposes, the data retention periods or the operations and procedures of
treatment.

Thus, although the provisions of the aforementioned article 18 already provided for the holding of a
file by the Minister, these should, following their revision by section 23 of the bill,
be supplemented when they are formulated too vaguely or imprecisely.

In the developments below, the National Commission will come back to the provisions
be completed or on the elements that need to be clarified.

B. On the role of the different actors

The National Commission welcomes the fact that paragraph (4) of Article 18 of the amended law of 5
July 2016 on the organization of taxi services, as amended by article 23 of the draft
law, specifies the role of the various actors in the context of the processing of personal data
staff referred to in the aforementioned article.

The CNPD welcomes the fact that the authors of the bill have specified that:

the Minister has the status of controller within the meaning of Article 4, point 7) of the
GDPR; and
the CTIE and the Société Nationale de Circulation Automobile (hereinafter the “SNCA”) act
as a processor of the Minister within the meaning of Article 4(8) GDPR.

Regarding the role of the subcontractor, it should be recalled that in accordance with Article 28 of the
GDPR, this “only processes personal data on documented instructions from the
controller".

C. On the purposes of the processing of personal data

As previously noted, article 23 recasts article 18 of the amended law
of July 5, 2016 on the organization of taxi services. It follows from this redesign that the
purposes listed in paragraph (1) of the aforementioned article 18 are deleted by article 23 of the
law Project. The purposes of the processing are now listed in paragraph (2) of Article
18, as amended by clause 23 of the bill.

If said article substantially resumes the purposes which were listed in Article 18, paragraph (1),
it should be noted that the purpose relating to "the implementation of analyzes and research ä
for purposes of planning and evaluating the quality of taxi services after depersonalization
related data” has been deleted. Article 23 of the bill also introduces a

CNPI1

.10,ICTION
We DON.

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

6/13

new purpose, namely "monitoring compliance with the provisions of this law and its
implementing regulations”.

The National Commission is pleased that the purposes are determined and listed in paragraph
(2) of section 18, as amended by section 23 of the bill.

Nevertheless, for greater clarity, it would have been preferable for the authors of the bill to specify
what data is collected and for what purposes. In the absence of such details, it is
difficult for the CNPD to assess whether the principle of minimization would be respected. He is reminded
that by virtue of this principle, only the personal data which are necessary for the
achievement of the purposes may be processed.

D. On the origin of personal data and the categories of data to be

personal character

The National Commission welcomes that the categories of personal data
collected by the Minister be listed in subsection (3) of section 18, as amended by
clause 23 of the bill. However, it should be noted that the initial wording of Article
18 was more precise both as regards the categories of personal data
collected by the Minister as their origins. However, such provisions have been deleted and have not
not taken up by article 23 of the bill.

On the origin of the data

It should be noted that Article 18, in its original version, made a distinction between
categories of data that were collected directly from the data subjects of
those that were collected indirectly and that came from state files.

The current wording no longer makes such a distinction. However, it appears from the comments of
articles that "Access to the majority of personal data is made through access to
other existing databases such as the RNPP or the database on
vehicles" and that "the encoding of new personal data is very limited within
from the database”. In addition, subsection (5) of section 18, as amended by section
23 of the bill, also provides for indirect collection of data by the Minister through the
SNCA.

Therefore, the CNPD questions the merits of deleting the provisions of Article 18,
in its initial version, which specified the origin of the data collected and processed by the Minister.

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

7/13

If access to state files were to be a means of collecting personal data
staff then it should be specifically in the bill. The National Commission
will come back to this below at point E.

Finally, it should be noted that under paragraph (5) of Article 18, as amended by Article
23 of the bill, the Minister would obtain via the SNCA "the national identification number of the
candidate ". However, it should be recalled that access to the RNPP by an administration should
be carried out in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 10 of the amended law of 19 June 2013
relating to the identification of natural persons as well as Articles 5 to 7 of the Grand-
of November 28, 2013 setting the terms of application of the aforementioned law. It would therefore be
preferable to provide that the Minister has access to the RNPP in accordance with the aforementioned provisions
rather than providing for the transmission of the national identification number by the SNCA to the Minister.

On the categories of personal data

It should be noted that the Minister is provided with personal data
as well as data concerning legal persons. In this regard, it should be noted that
recital 14 of the GDPR states that the GDPR "(...) does not cover the processing of personal data
of a personal nature which concern legal persons, and in particular companies
with legal personality, including the name, legal form and contact details of the
legal person". However, information relating to legal persons may, on
if applicable, relate to natural persons (for example: if they include the name of the
manager of the company) and must therefore be considered as personal data
personal. The GDPR will therefore only apply to personal data that would be
communicated to the Minister.

It should be noted that the initial version of Article 18 was drafted with more precision and
clarity regarding the categories of data collected by the Minister. Indeed, the
paragraph (3) of Article 18 listed the categories of data collected indirectly via
state files and paragraph (5) enumerated the categories of data which
were collected directly from drivers, taxi operators or interested parties
"on the waiting list".

However, the current wording of section 18, as amended by section 23 of the bill, proposes
a succinct and imprecise list, which does not include some of the categories of data
which were nevertheless covered by the deleted provisions. In addition, the provisions under notice do not
do not mention to which data subject the personal data relates
that would be collected.

CNPII

HAS
44741[C110.
001.4FE4

L

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

8/13

By way of illustration, it should be noted that paragraph (3) of Article 18, as amended by
Article 23 of the bill, provides that "surnames and first names" would be collected. Are these the
names and first names of drivers, taxi or VLC operators?

Thus, in order to meet the precision and predictability requirements that a
text 1éga112, the National Commission suggests that the authors of the draft adopt the wording
initial of article 18, paragraphs (3) and (5), if not to specify in the text under opinion to which
data subject relate to the categories of personal data and complete
the enumeration of categories of personal data, which does not appear at this stage
complete. It would be appropriate, for example, to specify that the photo of the driver would be collected
as well as the extract from the criminal record of a taxi or VLC driver would be collected.

Finally, a clerical error seems to have crept into paragraph (3) of Article 18, as amended
by Article 23, in that it provides "for the files listed in paragraphs 1 and 2" while
that it appears from the said paragraphs that the Minister maintains a single database. Moreover, at
same paragraph, it also appears that the authors of the bill omitted the term
“collected” just after “personal data”.

E. Access to the RNPP and the vehicle database

It should be noted that the initial provisions of Article 18, paragraph (3), framed
access to other state files by the Minister. Indeed, this article specified for each of the
files the minister could access what data he could collect
for the purposes listed therein.

However, these provisions were deleted by article 23 of the bill, although the authors of the
bill specify in the commentary to the articles that "17I have access to the majority of the data
personal data is done through access to other existing databases such as the
RNPP or the Vehicle Database”.

If access to other state databases still seems to be the will of the authors of the
bill, this is no longer reflected in the current wording of section 18, as
amended by clause 23 of the bill. Section 18 paragraph (5), as amended by Section 23
of the bill, furthermore providing only for the communication of data from the SNCA to the
minister.

12 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
no. 474131061, § 228-229, December 4, 2015

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

9/13

Therefore, in order to meet the requirements of precision and predictability that must be met by
a text 1éga113, the National Commission considers that such access should be provided for and
regulated by the bill. On this point, it is suggested that the authors of the bill take up
the provisions of Article 18, paragraph (3).

Finally, there is reason to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that this access must not
not allow the Minister to indirectly obtain personal data
from state authority files to which he would not have access under the bill
under notice.

F. On the communication of personal data to the SNCA

It should be noted that in its initial version Article 18, paragraph (10) provided that "11I
Minister is authorized to communicate, by computerized processes or not, data to
personal nature relating to operators or drivers, to the SNCA, for the purpose of allowing
verification of a business license in process and for issuance and
affixing the taxi board, the taxi zone plate and the illuminated panel. The data that
may be communicated to the SNCA are determined by Grand-Ducal regulation. »

Article 14, paragraph (2), of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of July 23, 2016 setting in particular the
methods of application of the legislation on the organization of taxi services, lists the
data which may be communicated by the Minister to the SNCA.

To the extent that the provisions of paragraph (10) of Article 18 are deleted by Article
23 of the bill, and that the authors of the bill do not indicate the reasons for such
deletion, the National Commission wonders if such a communication is still planned?
If so, such details should be provided by the authors of the bill.

G. On access to personal data

It should be noted that the provisions set out in paragraph (7) of Article 18, as
amended by article 23 of the bill, provide for access "to the data contained in the
database” for members of the Grand Ducal Police and police officers
the customs and excise administration within the framework of the purpose referred to in paragraph (2),
point 1) of the aforementioned article.

13 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015

[ CNPII

Faoncreed
Dt1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

10/13

However, insofar as a law must be sufficiently clear and precise in order to allow
data subjects to know the extent of the limitations, as well as the consequences
possible for e11es14, it would be advisable to specify the legal framework of the controls that can be
carried out by members of the Grand Ducal Police and agents of the administration of
customs and excise. The National Commission therefore recommends inserting at the end of the
subsection (7) of Section 18, as amended by Section 23 of the Bill, the wording
following: "in accordance with their supervisory powers as referred to in Article 22 of this
law”15.

Finally, the CNPD still wonders whether access to such a file by the Grand Ducal Police should not
not be provided for in the body of article 43 of the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand Police
ducale, which specifies in particular the files to which the police can have access,
as well as the conditions under which such access can be made. All the more then
that bill n°7741 modifying 1° the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police
Grand Duchy, 2° of the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing the SRE and 3° of the Code
penal, intends to modify the said article. Indeed, it appears from the explanatory memorandum to the bill
No. 7741 cited above, that the planned modification of the aforementioned article 43 "aims to adapt the list
files already accessible to the Police and to better supervise their access by the Police”.

H. Access traceability

It should be noted that paragraph (6) of Article 18 provided specific provisions
with regard to the traceability of accesses, which are now eliminated by article 23 of the draft
of law. While the GDPR does not explicitly provide for such provisions to be reflected in
a text of law, the National Commission nevertheless wishes to recall the principle of integrity and
confidentiality which must be respected by the data controller, in this case the minister.

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter f) of the GDPR the personal data
must be “processed in such a way as to guarantee appropriate security of the personal data
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the loss,
accidental destruction or damage, using technical measures or
appropriate organizational (integrity and confidentiality)”.

In addition, Article 32 of the GDPR provides that: "the controller and the processor
implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk”. Such measures must be implemented in order to
in particular to prevent unauthorized access to data or data leaks.

14 See among others ECtHR, Zakharov c. Russia [GC], n°47413/06, § 228-229, 4 December 2015.
15 Article 22 of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on the organization of taxi services provides that: "files offenses against
provisions of this law and its implementing regulations are sought and observed by the members of the Grand-Police.
Ducale and by officials of the Customs and Excise Administration".

CNI911

[

0.53ON

PC, .

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

11/13

Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only
people who need it in the performance of their duties and professional tasks
are entitled to have access to the necessary data. In this context, it is strongly
recommended to define an access management policy, in order to be able to identify from the beginning
the person or department, within each entity or administration concerned, who would have access
to the data or, within the framework of the administrations, to the computer interface made available
by the CTIE, and what specific data this person or service would have access to.

In addition, it is necessary to provide an access logging system (log register),
in order to be able to guarantee the traceability of access. Finally, the CNPD recommends that data from
logging are kept for a period of five years from their recording,
period after which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure.

The CNPD also emphasizes the importance of proactively carrying out internal controls. In this
Indeed, it is necessary in accordance with Article 32, paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR to implement
implements a procedure “aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of
technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing”.

I. On the retention period of personal data

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data
must not be kept for longer than necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes
for which they are collected and processed.

The National Commission welcomes that Article 18, paragraph (8), as amended by Article
23 of the bill provides that "The data will be kept for a maximum of three years after
forfeiture of taxi operating license, VLC operating license or card
of driver. The identity photo is destroyed after the production of the driver's card”.

However, do such provisions respect the principle of limitation of storage in
with regard to the extract from the criminal record which would be collected under article 8 of the law of 5
July 2016 on the organization of taxi services?

Finally, it should also be noted that the draft text provides for a retention period that
case of forfeiture of a taxi operating licence, VLC or driver card.
However, what about the renewal of a taxi, VLC or
a driver card?

It is recalled in this respect that in accordance with the principle of accuracy, the personal data
must be accurate and, if necessary, kept up to date. Thus, it is the responsibility of the person responsible for

[ CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

12/13

processing to take all reasonable measures to ensure that the data
inaccurate personal data are corrected or deleted without delay.

Thus decided in Belvaux on October 1, 2021.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen

Thierry Lallemang

President

Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

Alain Hermann
Commissioner

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of

taxi services.

13/13

