The Swedish Data Protection Authority's guidance
Diary no: DI-2020-11495
Decision date: 2020-12-01

Needs and risk analysis in healthcare - a guide
Content
Introduction ................................................... ................................................ ......2
Applicable rules and the hierarchy of norms ............................................... ...................2
The Data Protection Regulation the primary source of law ....................................2
Basic principles must be followed and a legal basis must exist ............... 3
The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations................................................ ............................................ 4
The Patient Data Act, the Patient Data Ordinance and the National Board of Health and Welfare
regulations contain supplementary national regulations .............5
The personal data controller's responsibility for security when processing
personal data ................................................ ............................................. 6
A need and risk analysis must be carried out before authorization is granted
to journal system takes place .............................................. ......................................7
The needs and risk analysis a central organizational security measure ........7
Access must be limited to what each executive needs
to be able to carry out their duties ............................................ ........... 8
Different permission levels and layers to restrict access can
needed ................................................ ................................................ .... 9
The requirement for a needs and risk analysis includes both the so-called internal
the area of confidentiality and coherent record keeping ................................ 10
Implementation of the needs and risk analysis – six steps ............................. 11
Consequences of not carrying out a needs and risk analysis ........... 12

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

2 (15)

Introduction
In the spring of 2019, the Swedish Data Protection Authority began supervision of eight healthcare providers within
health care for the purpose of, among other things, investigating the allocation of
authorizations in the caregivers' respective record systems have been preceded by needs and risk analyses. The reviews also included how the allocation of
permissions implemented and what access capabilities they granted
the authorizations provide within the framework of, on the one hand, the internal secrecy according to ch. 4.
the Patient Data Act, partly the coherent record keeping according to ch. 6
same team.
Needs and risk analyzes must form the basis for, among other things, authorization allocation and are of essential importance for information about individuals and their
state of health must be protected and personal integrity maintained. The
central and generally applicable conclusions from the inspections regarding the requirements
on conducting needs and risk analyzes is summarized here
the guidance. The guidance aims to point out the importance of caregivers
ensures that appropriate needs and risk analyzes take place and to provide support to
healthcare providers in the implementation of such analyzes prior to awarding of
authorizations in journal system.

Applicable rules and the hierarchy of norms
The Data Protection Regulation the primary legal source
In order to protect the individual's privacy, there are common EU rules on
how personal data may be processed. The Data Protection Regulation, often abbreviated
GDPR1, was introduced on 25 May 2018 and is the primary legal regulation at
Processing of personal data. It contains 99 articles, which apply as
Swedish legislation and is supplemented by 173 considerations (reasons) as in parts
explains or clarifies the intent of the various articles. The provisions of
The data protection regulation applies to all processing of personal data within
Healthcare.
Before the data protection regulation was introduced, the Personal Data Act (PUL) applied.
Through PUL, an EU directive on the processing of personal data was introduced in 1998 i
Swedish law.2 PUL was secondary legislation and to that extent did not apply to others
1

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection
for natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow
of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/56/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
2 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of
such information.

2

3 (15)

rules regarding personal data processing were applicable. With the introduction of the data protection regulation, the hierarchy of standards has changed centrally
manner when it comes to the processing of personal data. The Data Protection Ordinance is instead primary legislation and sets basic rules for everything
personal data processing. The Regulation also regulates the role and responsibility of data protection authorities in monitoring compliance with the Regulation. The
means that all Swedish legislation, when it comes to the treatment of
personal data, must have been adapted according to the regulation and that national rules
can only supplement and complete the data protection regulation.3
When personal data is processed, the provisions of the Data Protection Regulation on the protection of personal integrity must therefore be applied in the first instance
taken into account and thereafter (with regard to the processing of personal data)
supplementary national legislation, such as the Patient Data Act,
be followed.
Basic principles must be followed and a legal basis must exist
The Data Protection Regulation states in Article 5 a number of basic principles for
processing of personal data, such as all covered by the regulation and
who handle personal data must comply. The principles concern requirements for legality,
transparency, purpose limitation, correctness, data minimization and
storage minimization.4
One of the basic principles concerns the requirement for security and means that
personal data must be processed in a way that ensures appropriate security
for the personal data using appropriate technical or organizational measures. Appropriate security must ensure, for example, protection against
unauthorized or unauthorized processing, loss, destruction or damage by
accident.5
The personal data controller's responsibilities are also clarified in the data protection regulation. The so-called liability means that it
personal data controller must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that the basic
the principles are complied with.6 The requirement partly aims to ensure that the processing of
the personal data is processed in accordance with the data protection regulation, partly that it
personal data controller must be able to demonstrate that the processing of
the personal data is processed in accordance with the regulation.
3

Complementary national legislation (or Union law regulation) presupposes its existence
provisions in the data protection regulation that allow deviating or supplementing
provisions of the data protection regulation.
4 Article 5.1.
5 Article 5.1 f.
6 Article 5.2.

3

4 (15)

The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations
As mentioned, one of the basic principles of the data protection regulation
legality.7 In order for the processing to be considered legal, it is required that there is a
legal basis.8 The legal bases that can be actualized in health and
healthcare is usually a matter of public interest, but also legal
obligation and exercise of authority may be relevant.9 Consent may as
rule not be used as a legal basis for processing personal data
in healthcare because there is an unequal relationship
between the care provider and the care recipient and a valid consent therefore cannot
be left.10
When it comes to the question of the legal bases legal obligation, generally
interest or exercise of authority may the Member States retain or
introduce more specific provisions to adapt the application of
the provisions of the data protection regulation to national conditions.
National law can further determine specific requirements for data processing
and other measures to ensure legal and fair treatment.11 Such
regulations exist for health care in the Patient Data Act and others
supplementary legislation relating to personal data processing in the field of healthcare.
Information about health constitutes sensitive personal data. Treatment of special
categories of personal data, so-called sensitive personal data, are as
main rule prohibited.
In the data protection regulation there are a number of exceptions that allow when sensitive
personal data may still be processed.12 Sensitive personal data may be processed
in healthcare if it is necessary to provide healthcare on the basis of either Union law or Member States'

7

Article 5.1 a.
Legal grounds are regulated in Article 6.
9 Article 6.1 c, e.
10 Consent can, however, many times, when the processing of personal data takes place on the basis of another
legal basis, be used as an integrity-enhancing measure.
11 Article 6.2. The Data Protection Ordinance also contains a requirement that the basis for
the processing referred to in paragraph 1 c and e shall be established in accordance with Union law or
national law of the Member States. The legal basis may also contain special
provision to adapt the application of the provisions of the data protection regulation.
Union law or the national law of the Member States must fulfill an objective of general interest
and be proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.
12 Article 9, 9.2 h.
8

4

5 (15)

national law or according to agreements with health professionals. One
prerequisite is that there is a regulated duty of confidentiality.13
Processing of personal data with the support of the legal bases in general
interest, exercise of authority and legal obligation and processing of
sensitive personal data requires that there is support for it in supplementary
rules.
The Patient Data Act, the Patient Data Ordinance and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations
contains supplementary national regulations
For Swedish purposes, both the basis for the treatment and the special ones
the conditions for processing personal data in healthcare
regulated in the Patient Data Act14 and the Patient Data Ordinance15. The Patient Data Act expressly states that the act supplements the data protection regulation. 16
It is clear from the Patient Data Act that the purpose of the act is that information management
within health care must be organized so that it caters for patient safety and good quality and promotes cost-effectiveness.17 Furthermore,
personal data is designed and otherwise processed so that that of patients and others
data subject's privacy is respected. In addition, documented personal data must be handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access to them.
The supplementary provisions in the Patient Data Act aim to take care of both privacy protection and patient safety. The legislature has thus
through the regulation made a balance regarding how the information should be
processed to meet both the requirements for patient safety and the right to
personal integrity in the processing of personal data.
The National Board of Health and Welfare has issued regulations with the support of the patient data regulation
and general advice on record keeping and processing of personal data i
health care (HSLF-FS 2016:40, regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare).
The regulations constitute supplementary rules to be applied in the case of care providers
processing of personal data in the health and medical care. 18

13
14
15
16
17
18

Article 9.3.
The Patient Data Act (2008:355).
The Patient Data Ordinance (2008:360).
1 ch. Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.
1 ch. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act.
1 ch. Section 1 subsection 2 of the Patient Data Act.

5

6 (15)

The personal data controller's responsibility for security when processing
personal data
That personal data controllers have a general responsibility to implement
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able
show that the processing of personal data is carried out in accordance with
the data protection regulation appears from the basic principles in article 5
but is also regulated in Article 24 of the regulation. The measures must be implemented with
consideration of the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing as well as
the risks, of varying degrees of probability and seriousness, for the freedoms and rights of natural persons. The measures must be reviewed and updated if necessary.
The controller's more precise responsibility for security in connection
with the processing of personal data is regulated in Article 32 of the regulation. The
personal data controller must take appropriate technical and organizational measures
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate in relation to
the risk. The assessment must take into account the latest developments,
the implementation costs, the nature, scope, context and
purposes as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, which may
be of varying degree of probability and severity. Special consideration must be given to them
risks that the processing entails, in particular for accidental or illegal
destruction, loss or alteration or for unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized
access to the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise
treated.
The Data Protection Regulation thus states that appropriate measures must be both
technical as well as organizational and that they must ensure a level of security that
is appropriate in relation to the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons that the processing entails. It is therefore required that the person responsible for personal data firstly identifies the possible risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, and secondly assesses the likelihood of the risks occurring and
the severity if they occur. What is "appropriate" varies not only in
relationship to the risks, but also based on the nature, scope,
context and purpose. It is therefore important for the assessment which
technical and organizational measures that are appropriate for what it is
personal data that is processed, how much data is involved, how
many who process the data, for how long, etc.
Health care has a great need for information in its operations. Since
the Patient Data Act was introduced, a very extensive digitization has taken place within
care. Both the size of the data collections and how many people share
information with each other has increased significantly. That is also the question
sensitive personal data. The information concerns people who are in a
dependent situation when they are in need of care. It is also often a matter of many

6

7 (15)

personal data about each of these people and the data can over time
will be treated by many people in healthcare. This means that
the requirements for security increase because the assessment of what is appropriate
security, as described above, is affected by the nature and scope of the processing.
Here it is also central to emphasize that information processed within
care must be protected both against actors outside the business and against
unauthorized access from within the business then the risks, for example for accidental
or unlawful destruction, loss or unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized
access, also includes processing of actors within the business.
National regulations that supplement the data protection regulation's requirements for
security is mainly found in chapters 4 and 6. the Patient Data Act and chs. 3 and 4
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations, HSLF-FS 2016:40.
A needs and risk analysis must be carried out before awarding of
authorization to record system takes place
The needs and risk analysis a central organizational security measure
It appears from ch. 4. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act that the healthcare provider must decide
conditions for granting authorization for access to data on patients
which is fully or partially automated. Such authorization shall be limited to
what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties
within health care.
Of ch. 4 § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations follow that the care provider must be responsible for
that each user is assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data. The healthcare provider's decision on the allocation of authorization must be preceded
of a needs and risk analysis. This means that national law prescribes requirements for
an appropriate organizational security measure to be taken before awarding of
authorizations to journal systems take place.
To carry out a needs and risk analysis that meets the requirements according to
the data protection regulation and national legislation are primarily the question of
a strategic analysis at a strategic level.
The needs analysis needs to be supplemented with an assessment of the risk of
patients' freedoms and rights
This is evident, as reported, from the provisions of the Data Protection Ordinance on
safety and is also highlighted in the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act and i
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations that it is not only a question of needs analysis but
also about risk analyzes in which different kinds of risks must be taken into account for

7

8 (15)

the freedoms and rights of individual natural persons that may result from an overly broad
availability regarding certain types of data. 19
It is clear from the data protection regulation's considerations that the assessment of
how likely and serious the risk to the data subject's rights and freedoms
is should be determined based on the nature, scope, context and
purpose. The risk should be evaluated on the basis of an objective assessment,
through which it is determined whether the data processing involves a risk or
a high risk.20
Factors that should be taken into account when assessing the risk to patients' rights
and freedoms are, among other things, if it is the question of personal data that is covered
of confidentiality, information about health or sexual life, if there is processing of
personal data relating to vulnerable natural persons – above all children – or
if the processing involves a large number of personal data and applies to a large
number of registrants.21 Also protected personal data marked confidential, information about generally known persons, information from certain receptions
or medical specialties are examples of categories of tasks that can
require special risk assessments.
Access must be limited to what each executive needs to
be able to perform their duties
According to ch. 4 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act must authorize the staff's electronic
access to information about patients is limited to what the executive
need to be able to carry out their tasks in health care.
According to the preparatory work, this includes, among other things, that authorizations must be followed up and
changes or is limited as changes in the individual
the executive's duties give reason for it.22 The purpose of
the provision was stated according to the preparatory work to be "inculcating the obligation for
the responsible caregiver to make active and individual
authorization assignments based on analyzes of which detailed information different
personnel categories and different types of operations need". Here it can be noted that
the preliminary works were written long before the data protection regulation, but that
the preliminary working statements correspond well with what now applies according to it
the basic principle of data minimization in the regulation.23

19

Prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148–149.
Recital 76. Recitals 39 and 83 also contain writings that provide guidance on it more closely
the meaning of the data protection regulation's requirements for security when processing
personal data.
21 Reason 75 to the data protection regulation.
22 Prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148–149. The provision in ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40 corresponds to i
principle § 8 of the Care Register Act.
23 Article 5.1 c.
20

8

9 (15)

According to the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act, decisive for decisions on eligibility for, for example, different categories of healthcare personnel to
electronic access to data in patient records be that the authorization must
limited to what the executive needs for the purpose of a good and safe
patient care. The preparatory work emphasizes that a more extensive or coarse meshed
authorization assignment should – even if it would have points from outside
efficiency point of view – is considered an unjustified dissemination of medical records
within a business and should not be accepted. Today, one fights too wide
authorization assignment against the basic principle of
task minimization
Different permission levels and layers to restrict access may be needed
When assigning authorization, it is clear from the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act
among other things, that there must be different authorization categories in the records system. 24
The more extensive an information system is, the more authorization levels
there must be.
According to operator statements, data should also be stored in different layers so that more
sensitive information requires active choices or is otherwise not as easily accessible
for the staff as less sensitive data. It may be noted here that use of active choices does not in itself constitute such limitation of eligibility as
referred to in ch. 4 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act. This provision requires that the authorization be limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill
their duties in health care, i.e. only those who
have a need for data must have access to them. For an employee
who must have access to certain, particularly sensitive, data must, however
active elections be used as an integrity-enhancing measure, by ensuring
that conscious decisions are required before access takes place
the data.
In the case of personnel who work with business monitoring, statistical production, central financial administration and similar activities such as
is not individual-oriented, probably according to the majority of executives
the preparatory work is sufficient with access to information that can only be derived indirectly
to individual patients. Electronic access to code keys, social security number
and other information that directly identifies individual patients should on this
area, according to the preliminary work, could be strongly limited to single people.
When a need and risk analysis is missing prior to the assignment of authorization in one
record system in health care, there is no basis for it
24

Prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148-149.

9

1 0 (15)

personal data controllers in a legal way must be able to assign their users
a correct authorization. The personal data controller is responsible for, and shall
have control over, the processing of personal data that takes place within the framework of
the business. To assign users a when accessing records system, without
that this is based on a performed needs and risk analysis, means that it
the personal data controller does not have sufficient control over the personal data processing that takes place in the record system, nor can he demonstrate that he has
the required control.
The requirement for a needs and risk analysis includes both the so-called internal
the area of confidentiality and coherent record keeping
The provisions in ch. 4 The Patient Data Act concerns internal confidentiality, that is
say regulates how privacy protection must be handled within a healthcare provider's
operations and especially employees' opportunities to prepare access to
personal data that is electronically available in a healthcare provider's
organisation. As mentioned, a care provider has according to ch. 4 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act
to determine conditions for granting authorization for access to such
information about patients that is fully or partially automated. Such
authorization must be limited to what is necessary for the individual to be able to
fulfill their duties in health care. The requirement for one
needs and risk analysis naturally includes employees who are in
the care provider's organization.25
The provisions in ch. 6 the Patient Data Act concerns coherent record keeping.
This means that a care provider - under the conditions specified in ch. 6 Section 2
patient data act - may have direct access to personal data processed by
other healthcare providers for purposes related to healthcare documentation. Access to
information occurs through a healthcare provider making information about a patient who
the healthcare provider registers whether the patient is available to other healthcare providers who
participates in the coherent record keeping.26 Of ch. 6. Section 7 of the Patient Data Act
it follows that the regulations in ch. 4 Section 2 also applies to authorization allocation
in case of coherent record keeping. The requirement for the care provider to carry out a
needs and risk analysis before assigning authorizations in the system takes place, applies
thus also in systems for coherent record keeping.

25
26

See also prop. 2007/08:126 p. 141ff and p. 239.
Prop. 2007/08:126 p. 247.

10

1 1 (15)

Implementation of the needs and risk analysis – six steps
The section gives an overview of the six steps that should be followed when need and
the risk analysis is carried out.
The six basic steps of the needs and risk analysis.
1. Analyze and determine the needs of the business
2. Identify and analyze the risks to individuals' personal integrity
3. Identify and take appropriate technical and organizational measures to
reduce the risks
4. Determine, based on the analyses, an authorization structure that supports the needs
and minimizes the risks
5. Document all steps
6. Continually review the authorization structure and what the actions are
appropriate to reduce the risks.
A needs and risk analysis usually begins with an analysis of the needs.
The business's need for access to information about patients in order to be able to
offer adequate care is determined through the analysis, and must include what
employees need to be able to fulfill their duties. Need and
the risk analysis must also, as described in the previous section, include a
analysis of risks based on an integrity perspective that may be associated with
an excessive when granting authorization to access patient data.
The risk analysis must include an objective assessment of how likely and serious
the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects is and in any case determine
whether it is a question of a risk or a high risk.
It is through the needs and risk analysis that the person in charge of personal data takes
find out who needs access, what data the access option should
include, at which times and in which contexts or processes
the access is needed. At the same time, the risks to the individual's freedom and
rights that the processing may lead to.
The analysis should then lead to identifying the technical and organizational ones
measures needed to be able to grant the necessary authorizations, and
ensure that no assignment of authority provides further access opportunities
than the need and risk analysis shows is justified. These technical and
organizational measures must then be implemented.
The strategic analysis must result in an authority structure that is
adapted to the needs of the business both organizationally and individually
level. This needs to result in instructions on authorization allocation which
then implemented. An important organizational measure is thus to give instructions

11

1 2 (15)

to those who have the authority to assign permissions on how this should be done and
what must be taken into account so that, with the needs and risk analysis as a basis, it becomes
a correct authorization assignment in each individual case.
A well-developed documentation of performed analyzes and assessments is
central for the care provider to be able to demonstrate that the authorization assignment is
expedient and fulfills the requirements set according to
the data protection regulation, the patient data act and the regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare.
To the extent that a business is not static, authorizations are a perishable commodity. In order to
ensure correct authorization assignment needs assigned authorizations
is continuously checked and the authorization structure is continuously kept up to date. 27
As has already been emphasized, a needs and risk analysis forms the basis for
the personal data controller in a legal way must be able to assign his
user a correct authorization. It is also the basis for the personal data controller's control over the personal data processing that takes place in
the records system and that he can show that he has the required control.
Consequences of not carrying out a needs and risk analysis
As mentioned, the needs and risk analysis is fundamental to a correct
authorization assignment must be possible.
That the assignment of authorizations has not been preceded by a need-and
risk analysis means that the data controller has not analysed
the users' need for access to the data, the risks that this access poses
can entail and thus also not identified which access possibilities are
are entitled to assign the users. In such cases, the person responsible has not used
take appropriate measures to restrict permissions for access to
the journal system to only what is needed for the user to be able to
fulfill their duties in health care.
If the lack of analysis leads to too narrow an allocation of permissions, it can
lead to staff not being able to take part in the tasks they need to perform
their work, which poses a risk to the patient's life and health.
If the lack of analysis instead leads to the users' permissions not
are limited to what is only necessary for them to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks, it can lead to the tasks ending up in the wrong hands and
used for unauthorized purposes. That the patient's right to privacy is not respected

27

4 ch. Section 3 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

12

1 3 (15)

can affect patients' trust in care. That, in turn, can have an effect
both patients' willingness to share data, as well as patients' willingness to leave
correct and complete information to their healthcare provider. In a report from
the authority for health care analysis states 8 percent of
the respondents in a survey that they have withheld information out of concern for over
that someone else could see the data. Another 8 percent state that
they considered it.28
It is therefore essential for healthcare to have one
authority structure that has its basis in well-executed needs and
risk analyzes so that users are neither assigned too broadly nor too narrowly
authorizations for access to the records systems.
Because a needs and risk analysis is a prescribed organizational action
which must be taken before the assignment of authorizations takes place, it can also lead to
legal consequences if the controller fails to implement
needs and risk analyses.
In such a case, the person in charge of personal data has not used suitable ones
measures to limit user access to patients' data i
the journal system to what is only needed for the user to be able to
fulfill their duties in health care. This contradicts both
against the principle of data minimization according to Article 5.1 c
the data protection regulation and the requirement to ensure appropriate security for
the personal data, including protection against unauthorized access or unauthorized
treatment according to article 5.1 f, which is also apparent from article 32, which against ch. 4
Section 2 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 § 2 Regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare.
Can the personal data controller not show that the provision on data minimization is followed and that the personal data controller has taken measures to
be able to ensure appropriate security for the personal data, it has
personal data controller also not fulfilled the responsibility according to article
5.2 of the data protection regulation.
When there has been a breach of the data protection regulation has
Datainspektionen a number of corrective powers to be available. 29
The supervisory authority can, among other things, subpoena the person in charge of personal data
to ensure that the processing takes place in accordance with the regulation and if required
in a specific way and within a specific period.

The authority for care and care analysis report For safety's sake - The population's
attitude towards benefits and risks of digital health data 2017:10 pp. 76-77
29 Article 58.2 a–j of the data protection regulation.
28

13

1 4 (15)

It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that the supervisory authorities, i
Sweden Datainspektionen30, in accordance with Article 83 shall impose
penalty fees in addition to, or in lieu of, other corrective actions
depending on the circumstances of each individual case. Penalty fees according to
the data protection regulation are not insignificant and must be effective,
proportionate and dissuasive. A possible penalty fee may within
the care area for the same violation entail completely different outcomes, depending
whether it is a question of a private or public healthcare provider.
Depending on whether the violation relates to articles covered by Article 83(4) or
83.5 of the data protection regulation, the penalty fees can be of varying amounts. At
Violation of more central articles may penalize companies
amount to EUR 20 million or to a maximum of 4 percent of the global
the annual turnover during the previous budget year, depending on the amount
is highest. Alternatively, the maximum limit for the sanction amount is EUR 10 million
or a maximum of 2 percent of the global annual turnover in the previous year
budget year, depending on which amount is the highest.
For authorities, national rules may state that authorities can be imposed
administrative penalty fees.31 According to ch. 6 Section 2 of the Data Protection Act can
sanction fees are decided for authorities, but up to a maximum of SEK 5 million
alternatively SEK 10 million depending on whether the violation concerns articles
which is covered by article 83.4 or 83.5 of the data protection regulation.
When it comes to violations of fundamental principles and sensitive
personal data is updated to the higher scale of the penalty fees. 32
Article 83.2 of the data protection regulation shows the factors that the Data Protection Authority has to take into account when deciding whether an administrative penalty fee
must be imposed, but also what will affect the size of the penalty fee. Of
of central importance for the assessment of the seriousness of an infringement is its character,
severity and duration as well as the degree of responsibility of the personal data controller (and personal data assistant) taking into account the technical and
organizational measures carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation.33

30

As of January 1, 2021, Datainspektionen will change its name to
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority.
31 Article 83.7 of the data protection regulation.
32 Article 83.5 a of the data protection regulation.
33 Among other things, Article 32 of the data protection regulation.

14

1 5 (15)

If it is a minor violation, the supervisory authority may issue one
reprimand instead of imposing a penalty fee.34 Failure to implement a
needs and risk analysis prior to the allocation of authorizations is no less important
violation.
In summary, it can be stated that it is of central importance that
personal data controller performs a needs and risk analysis before assigning
permissions take place. It is a matter of sensitive personal data, often large
data collections, many have access to the data and the risk to them
basic freedoms and rights of the registered person if data is disclosed without authorization
is usually relatively high. Lack of a needs and risk analysis which
has led to an overly broad or coarse-grained allocation of authority entails
usually that a penalty fee must be paid.

34

Reason 148 to the data protection regulation.

15

