1/12

 File No.: EXP202102522

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against CORON ISLAND
SLU (hereinafter the claimed party). Notified of the start agreement and after analyzing
the allegations presented, on April 4, 2022 the proposal for
resolution transcribed below:

<<

File number: EXP202102522

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party) dated August 25,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CORON ISLAND SLU with NIF B67031344 (hereinafter,
the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The complaining party states that after consuming in a restaurant owned by the
claimed party, requested the issuance of an invoice in his name, requesting the
in charge of the data of your telephone number that, being information not necessary
for the issuance of the invoice, refused to provide it, subjecting the claimed party to its
emission, to the fact of facilitating the data of your telephone number.

And, provide a copy of the simplified invoice issued and the claims sheet where the
claimed party states that it requests said information to issue the invoice, as it is a
requirement of your computer system to create the user in your database.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP on October 11, 2021,
as stated in the certificate in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
dated October 26, 2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to
communicate electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means
of access to said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, you would be notified
exclusively by electronic means.

No response has been received to this transfer letter.

THIRD: On November 25, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant was admitted for processing.
FOURTH: On February 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified
in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the party complained against submitted a written
 << that society is
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated:
committed to Data Protection and has established procedures for the
Treatment of personal data. The company has not established any
protocol, procedure or instruction involving the request for the telephone number
mobile for the issuance of the simplified invoice. Those in charge of managing
of simplified invoice issuance do not request the telephone number, since in the CRM box
They record a generic number that is enabled for it. Given the tense situation,
waiter who served the complaining client could not remember this number, whose
insertion is required for the computer program to issue the invoice, and therefore
made the mistake of requesting the data that the program requested in order to
finish and deliver the claimed invoice. It is very important to note that this
party, and specifically its workers in charge of data processing,
They scrupulously comply with the principle of "data minimization", regulated in the
General Data Protection Regulation; that is, technical measures are applied and
organizational measures to ensure that the data they contain is processed.
are only necessary for each of the specific purposes of the treatment,
specifically to write invoices; reducing, the extent of treatment,
limiting the period of conservation and its accessibility to what is necessary.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

By virtue of the foregoing, only the personal data to be processed is collected, that is,
that is, those that are strictly necessary for the treatment, in this case the
elaboration of bills. The data is only collected when it is going to be processed, for
Therefore, data is not collected to be used later; moreover, they collect
only after express request of the clients. The personal information of
users or clients is only used for the purpose for which it was collected, that is,
to prepare the requested invoice, but not for any other purpose.

Indicate that the company has exhaustive control tools in place so as not to
violate the right of users, and in no case is information transferred to
third parties, guaranteeing at all times that the collection and processing of data
it is done in accordance with the regulations and respecting the principle of minimization. Here
there has only been a human error of someone who did not know how to prepare an invoice
duly, but the data of the client (...). As previously indicated,
This restaurant has implemented a measure that includes data minimization
for the preparation of invoices, and there being no intentionality or bad faith to use
these data subsequently, the nature, context and
and the purpose of processing the data in question.

In the case at hand, there has only been one injured party because in the usual treatment
This data is not requested with clients because those responsible for issuing
invoices already know how to open a customer file without the phone number.
Logically, as has already been stated, there has been no intentionality at all, which
which is also proven by the fact that the personal data has not been processed for
any. The act was committed by a worker, who due to the urgency and
organized scandal considered that the best thing was to make the invoice urgently
simplified without waiting for the person in charge of said realization. The greater abundance
requested personal data (telephone) has the category of identified not especially
protected and that has not been used or treated beyond opening the file to the client.

In the case that concerns us there has not been a continuous character, since it has been a
isolated and special case; the data collected cannot benefit society or
It can be useful for the restoration activity carried out by the company. Finally,
emphasize that it was the tense situation generated that caused the extraordinary events
occurred and that have ended up being the subject of this file>>.

Likewise, it requests that this file be archived and that the party not be sanctioned.
claimed, or subsidiarily, that other corrective measures be applied less
harmful.

SIXTH: On February 23, 2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous actions, as well as the documents provided by the claimed party.
  
SEVENTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
process.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that a person in charge of the claimed party requested the
claimant his telephone number for the issuance of the corresponding invoice, as it is
information that was not necessary refused to provide it, subjecting the claimed party to its
emission, to the fact of facilitating the data of your telephone number.

SECOND: In the claim sheet provided by the claimant, it is credited in the
statement made by the claimed party that said data is requested to issue the
invoice, as it is a requirement of your computer system to create the user in your
database.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

In the present case, it is considered proven that the defendant, as
recognizes in the claim form, and in the allegations made to the Agreement of
Home requested the complaining party's telephone number to prepare the
corresponding invoice.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the party
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in
relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD, duty of confidentiality, materialized in
that the personal data that are required to issue the invoice are
excessive for the intended purposes.

Royal Decree 1619/2012, of November 30, approving the Regulation
by which billing obligations are regulated (BOE no. 289, of 1/12/2012),
includes in its article 6 the content of the invoice: <<All invoices and their copies
contain the data or requirements listed below>>.

 These requirements include, among others, the name and tax identification number,
but not so the data of the telephone number.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD establishes the principles relating to the
treatment, indicating in this regard that: “Personal data will be adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”)”.

Also Recital 39 states: "...Personal data must be adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed.

In accordance with the principle of data minimization, data must be collected
data that is adequate, relevant, and limited, that is, not excessive in relation to
with the specific and legitimate purpose for which they were obtained and collected.

On the other hand, the relevance in the processing of personal data prevents
the treatment of those that are not necessary for the purpose that justifies the
treatment, and the treatment of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their removal.

In its defense, the respondent entity alleges that it has not established any protocol,
procedure or instruction involving the request of the mobile telephone number for
the issuance of the simplified invoice. Those in charge of carrying out the emission management
of simplified invoice do not request the telephone number, since in the CRM box they record
a generic number that is enabled for it.

The waiter who served the complaining client could not remember this number, whose
insertion is required for the computer program to issue the invoice, and therefore
made the mistake of requesting the data that the program requested in order to
finish and deliver the claimed invoice.

Well, in the present case, the fact of requesting the data of the telephone number of the
complaining party is excessive for the purpose for which it was intended. Not having
legitimate basis for it. The known facts could be constitutive of a
infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD, where it provides that the personal data processed by the person in charge will be:
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”)”.

IV

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:
"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case"

SAW

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. For the purpose of
determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the provisions of the
article 83, section 2 of the RGPD, which states:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes:

 "1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party”.

In order to specify the amount of the penalty to be imposed on the person claimed for violation
of article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, it is essential to examine and assess whether the
circumstances described in article 83.2 of the RGPD for which the company is responsible.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

claimed party, the following aggravating factors are considered concurrent:

The obvious link between the data controller and data processing (article 83.2k, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2b, of the LOPDGDD).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and
set it at the amount of €2,000 for the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

7th

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with
the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the
GDPR.

In such a case, this Agency may require the person in charge to adapt the
processing of personal data carried out in accordance with data protection regulations
in accordance with what is indicated in the preceding Legal Basis.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a subsequent administrative procedure
sanctioning

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
CORON ISLAND SLU, with NIF B67031344, for an infraction of Article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, with a fine of 2,000 euros (two
a thousand euros).
 
Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be established at 1,600 euros (one thousand six hundred euros) and its
payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
banking CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must send the
proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is made clear to you.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

BBB
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

EXHIBIT

File index EXP202102522
08/25/2021 Claim from A.A.A.
09/30/2021 Claim transfer to CORON ISLAND SLU
10/11/2021 Reiteration to CORON ISLAND SLU
11/25/2021 Communication to A.A.A.
02/07/2022 A. opening to CORON ISLAND SLU
02/09/2022 Info. Complainant to A.A.A.
02/22/2022 Allegations of CORON ISLAND, S.L.
02/23/2022 Notice p. tests to CORON ISLAND SLU

>>

SECOND: On April 9, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 1600 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202102522, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CORON ISLAND SLU.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

968-240122

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

