EDPB letter to the European institutions on the privacy and

data protection aspects of a possible digital euro

Mr. Fabio Panetta
European Central Bank
Sent by e-mail only

Brussels, the 18 June 2021
REF: OUT2021-0111

Dear Mr. Panetta,
In October 2020, the European Central Bank (ECB) issued the Report on a digital euro1 aiming at
consulting stakeholders, including the general public, on its project of a central bank digital currency
(CBDC)  in  the  Euro  zone, which  is  expected  to  be  available  for  retail  payments  (‘digital  euro’).  In
response to a significant decline in the role of cash as a means of payment, the digital euro would be
an alternative to physical cash, not a substitute. As a digital form of the euro currency, the ECB want
to “ensure that it was trusted from its inception and that this trust was maintained over time”1.

In April 2021, the ECB published a feedback of the public consultation2. The main finding was the very
predominantly expressed preference by the stakeholders and the public for privacy3 (43% as the most
important feature)4. This result can be observed throughout the EU, population characteristics and in
all  categories  of  respondents  (citizens,  payment  industry,  merchants,  NGOs,  academics…).  The
majority of citizens declared they wanted “a digital euro focused on privacy and the protection of
personal data, which can be used offline” (53%).

In this context, the European Data Protection Board acknowledges that decisions regarding the launch
of the project starting with a two-year exploratory phase will be held by mid-2021. The EDPB takes
this opportunity to proactively advise the competent EU institutions on the privacy and personal data

1 https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/other/Report_on_a_digital_euro~4d7268b458.en.pdf.
2 https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/pr/date/2021/html/ecb.pr210414~ca3013c852.en.html.
3 “the privacy of payment data is considered the most important feature, ranging from full privacy of transactions
to the possibility that only low-risk small transactions are private”, feedback document, page 3.
4 Although not representative of the EU population from a statistical point of view, the views collected
nevertheless indicate issues that are important to the public.

Adopted

1

protection aspects of a digital euro, and inform the public debate in that regard, from the very early
stage of decision making.

1. Background of the digital euro project and key data protection principles

In the light of the views expressed by the citizens during the public consultation, the EDPB stresses
that a very high standard of privacy and data protection is crucial to reinforce the trust of end users
and shall be considered as a distinctive element in the offering of digital euro, representing a key factor
of success of the project.

The EDPB acknowledges that the main architectural and design choices of a digital euro are not yet
defined, while the ECB documents offer options between different features and modalities. In any
chosen circumstance, the EDPB recalls the importance of taking in due account the compliance with
the European data protection applicable framework5 at an early stage of the project, pursuant to the
key principle of data protection “by design and by default”, privacy and data protection principles
should not be considered a posteriori, as a pure compliance exercise6. It shall be wired within core
decisions  on  the  outcome  of  the  project,  constituting  a  cornerstone of  the  final  goal  that  the
Eurosystem wants to achieve with respect to fundamental values of the European Union.

The EDPB recalls that the rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data are fundamental
rights enshrined in the articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
They shall not be considered as absolute values, but carefully balanced with other rights at stake. The
Court of Justice of the European Union has developed case law on the principles of necessity in a
democratic society and proportionality of limitations to fundamental rights and principles, ensuring
their appropriate protection7 .

Under  this  light,  the  Report  published  by  the  European  Central  Bank  offered  a  comprehensive
overview of different interests at stake in relation to different design choices (innovation, privacy,
financial  stability,  monetary  policy,  financial  inclusion,  etc.).  However,  new  risks  for  rights  and
freedoms of individuals might arise from this project, while others already identified risks might be
amplified (see part 2 below). Balance among these interests on one hand, and between them and
privacy and personal data protection on the other hand, should be cautiously assessed in order to
validate or adapt existing approaches in an innovative manner, with the final aim of minimising these
risks.

5 According to decision taken on personal data controllership, different legal instruments might come into play,
mainly the Regulation (EU) no. 2016/679, General Data Protection Regulation, and/or the Regulation (EU) no.
2018/1725, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union
institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data.
6 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-42019-article-25-data-
protection-design-and_en and https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-
work/publications/opinions/privacy-design_en.
7 See for example: C-511/18 - La Quadrature du Net and Others, 6 Oct 2020; Tele2 Sverige AB (CJEU, C-203/15,
ECLI:EU:C:2016:970); Ministerio Fiscal (CJEU, C-207/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:788).
See also: EDPS Guidelines on assessing the proportionality of measures that limit the fundamental rights to
privacy  and  to  the  protection  of  personal  data,  at: 19-12-19_edps_proportionality_guidelines2_en.pdf
(europa.eu).

Adopted

2

Moreover, in the context of the digital euro initiative, the EDPB points out in particular to the principle
of data minimization, according to which personal data shall be limited to what is necessary in relation
to the purposes for which they are processed. Purpose limitation, according to which personal data
shall be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner
that is incompatible with those purposes, shall also be complied with in the context of a digital euro.

The EDPB wants to underline the clear distinction between an anonymous use of the digital euro8 and
the case where a natural person is identified or identifiable during its use, including if the data are
pseudonymised, which requires the full compliance with GDPR. The choices made in that regard will
of course also depend on the policy objectives pursued and on a number of public interests to be
balanced. In any case, the architecture of the digital euro shall be designed to allow a privacy feature
ranging from anonymisation, at least on part of the transactions, to a high level of pseudonymisation
of the data9. The WP29 guidelines on anonymisation10 are currently reviewed and the EDPB will be in
a position to give more detailed advice on the subject matter from a technical point of view in the
future11.

The EDPB considers that a holistic assessment of different aspects and fundamental rights at stake
(financial and digital inclusion, privacy and data protection, freedom of movement, security) should
be made to ensure that the digital euro project is in line with the values of the European Union and,
in particular, with the protection of privacy and personal data.

2. Relevant privacy and data protection issues regarding the ‘architecture’ of the project

The EDPB welcomes the overall objective of the project, namely increasing access to central bank
currency in digital transactions enhancing innovation and pursing public interest in a well-functioning
economy.

However, an inappropriate design of the forthcoming digital euro would bring significant risks under
the  data  protection  perspective.  Relevant  safeguards  shall  be  put  in  place  in  order  to  avoid,  for
example, generalised tracking of user transactions throughout the payment system and to address
and mitigate the risk of excessive interference in privacy of the persons concerned by both centralized
entities and market operators.

In order to reach this objective, the identification of the end users should remain limited to what is
necessary to the performance of regulatory obligations by obliged entities. Collection and access to
personal data should be minimized to what is necessary to transfer the funds12, and security risks
should be identified and mitigated.

8 As it is the case for physical cash.
9 A thresholded approach could be based on the monetary value of the transaction. For example, low value
transaction of less than €1000 could enjoy full privacy as they are unlikely to entail AML high risks. Another
possible limitation could cover use outside the Euro area.
10 https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf
11 See EDPB Work Program: https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2021-03/edpb_workprogramme_2021-
2022_en.pdf
12 According to article 4 of the PSD2 directive, ‘payment transaction’ means an act, initiated by the payer or on
his  behalf  or  by  the  payee,  of  placing,  transferring  or  withdrawing  funds,  irrespective  of  any  underlying
obligations between the payer and the payee.

Adopted

3

Moreover, the EDPB understands that the digital euro will have legal tender status in the EU at the
time of its issuance, which means, in regulatory terms, that it will be assimilated to euro banknotes
within the meaning of Article 128 TFEU. Those are the only ones “to have the status of legal tender
within the Union”. This means that a digital euro would be, in legal terms, an equivalent to cash. In
this context, the EDPB considers that a digital euro shall have as far as possible ‘cash-like features’, in
particular regarding the data protection aspects.

Concerning the ‘AML/CFT status’ of the new currency, the EDPB notes that regulators in this field
assimilate central bank digital currencies to cash, considering it in this respect equivalent to any form
of fiat currency issued by a central bank. Since both AML/CFT and data protection and privacy concerns
are important concerns to be balanced in the design of the architecture of a digital euro, it follows
that physical  cash  is  the  relevant  benchmark to  strike  such  a  balance,  for  example  by  using  a
threshold-based approach, allowing full privacy for daily life transactions.

From an operational point of view, research conducted by the ECB shows that ensuring the adoption
of appropriate pseudonymisation techniques in the use of digital cash under a certain threshold, while
still ensuring that higher-value transactions are subject to mandatory AML/CFT checks, is technically
challenging but could be considered13.

In this context, it seems to the EDPB that a modality offering off-line transactions (without internet
connection to be accessible everywhere in the EU) anonymously or, in the lack of it, at least with a
high level of pseudonymisation, is necessary to mitigate risks for rights and freedoms of data subjects.

Moreover, to the EDPB highlights that if a ’decentralized approach’ were to be followed in that regard,
the data should be tokenized14 in order to avoid central monitoring of transactions, a good practice to
consider would be to store tokens locally on an end-user device or digital wallet (like a smartphone
or  card  to  reach  all  types  of  public,  and  meeting  the  necessary  software  and  hardware  security
conditions).

This  token-based  feature  is  compatible  with  interconnections  to  an intermediary distributing  the
digital euro, in order to refill the amounts of digital euro in the device or wallet, as it is currently the
case for ATMs for example. During the interconnection, the transaction data would not be reported
to the intermediary unless it reaches a given threshold. Moreover, the transactions that would be
reported to the intermediary in charge of conducting AML/CFT due diligence and reporting have to be
configured in at the minimum possible. Under such a framework, the on-boarding of end-users and
monitoring of transactions by the ECB would not be necessary.

The  technological  and  organisational  features  of  the  aforementioned token-based,  decentralised
approach  should  allow  only  and  not  prevent  targeted  identification  of  the  parties,  notably  for
AML/CFT purposes, avoiding any complete obfuscation of transactions, as it can be the case for some
cryptocurrencies.

13https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/intro/publications/pdf/ecb.mipinfocus191217.en.pdf?3824c3f26ad2f928
ceea370393cce785.
14 In other words, substitute a randomly generated identifier for a sensitive piece of data in order to prevent
unauthorized access.

Adopted

4

The  EDPB  considers  that  the simplicity  of  the  design,  its  easy  access  and  the  use  of  current
infrastructures  (if  an  assessment  shows  that  this  does  not  come  at  the  cost  of  privacy  and  data
protection) of the new digital currency is also important in terms of financial inclusiveness.

3. Next steps on privacy and data protection

While data protection and privacy aspects need to be carefully evaluated within legislative processes,
the EDPB notes that the digital euro project will entail an obligation to carry out a data protection
impact assessment (DPIA) by the relevant controllers15. Any data controller involved in personal data
processing operations shall then perform the assessment before the beginning of its operations and
evaluate the need to consult the competent supervisory authority prior to processing if necessary16.

However, performing this analysis, as a high-level assessment on the overall project, would be of
major help in correctly assessing and mitigating risks for rights and freedoms of data subjects and
would provide key elements to be considered when deciding on the possible design and architectural
scenarios.

In this context, we recommend that the EU body in charge of the design of the project performs such
a high-level impact assessment on privacy and data protection during the exploratory phase.

Due to the importance of the initiative, the EDPB stands ready to provide advice upon formal or
informal consultations by the ECB or by other EU institutions with the aim of ensuring at the same
time the effectiveness and the less privacy-intrusive configuration, right after a decision to launch the
project is taken, in order to provide a more granular compliance advice on the options considered.

Besides of the formal involvement of the EDPS, the EDPB would also like to express availability to work
at expert level with the competent EU institutions from the early stage of development of the project,
as well as during the exploratory phase.

For the European Data Protection Board,

The Chair

Andrea Jelinek

15 See WP29, Guidance and https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-
work/publications/guidelines/accountability-ground-provisional-guidance_en.
16That is, if the DPIA indicates that the processing would, in the absence of safeguards, security measures and
mechanisms to mitigate the risk, result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons and the
controller  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  risk  cannot  be  mitigated  by  reasonable  means  in  view  of  the  available
technologies and costs of implementation.

Adopted

5

