 

 

 

 

 

Athens, 05-07-2019
 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 

 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/3254/07-05-2019

 

 

     

FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

A P O F A S H A . 10 / 2019
 

    

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, to a regular meeting at its headquarters on 4/24/2018,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following the meetings of 16/3/2017, 20/6/2017 and 21/9/2017,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to examine the case referred to in the present history.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The President of the Authority, Konstantinos Menudakos, and the regular members were present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority Konstantinos Christodoulou, Antonios ymbonis, as rapporteur,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 pyridon Vlachopoulos, also as rapporteur, Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charalambos Anthopoulos as well
 

 

 

the alternate member Emmanuel
 

 

 

 

Demogerontakis in replacement of regular member Eleni Martsoukos, n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which, although legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to obstruction. the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting, without the right to vote, also attended by order of the President,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Maria Alikakou and Efrosyne Yougle, special scientists - auditors, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant rapporteurs, who withdrew after the debate and before the conference
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and making a decision, and Irini Papageorgopoulou, his employee
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department of Administrative Affairs, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It was submitted to the Authority under no. prot. G/EI /7646/23.11.2016 his complaint
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of the Association of Private Colleges (hereinafter I ) regarding imposed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

Ministry of Education, Research and Religions (hereafter Ministry of Education) obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration of "simple" data and data of special categories of students,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

parents/guardians and teachers of private schools in the single central
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

database of the Ministry of Education and Culture under the name "mySchool" (hereinafter "mySchool").
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 specifically, with no. prot. Φ8/145/97610/∆2/14.6.2016 document of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G.G. of the Ministry of Health, I was informed that from the 2016-2017 school year all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private primary and secondary schools had to register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the above "mySchool" database data regarding the student potential, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

school unit and the register of teaching staff, so that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the digital display of the operating elements of all private is completed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

school units. on 22.9.2016, the Ministry of Health with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

154892/Ε1.22.09.2016 his document returned to the above issue and, among other things,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as stated in the present complaint, it was imposed on private schools n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation to register the weekly program in "mySchool".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of teaching, the data of teachers and students of each class and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

department corresponding to public schools. Regarding the add-ons
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

optional school actions, it is specified in the above document that for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the existing procedure of mandatory notification of the concerned is followed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

education directorate. then, on 07.10.2016, according to the judgment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint, all private schools received from the Head of Department B
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Private Primary Education of the Ministry of Education and Culture e-mail, with which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were invited to register their operating data for the school year 2016-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 in a free software electronic form (Google Forms), below
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part of which was marked not to complete the code.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 then I with no. prot. 260/24.10.2016 document to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Head of the Department of Private Education of the Ministry of Education and Culture asked to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be informed, if the Ministry of Health and Welfare has complied with the recommendations it had addressed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the APDPH with decision 139/2014, as well as for its communication methods
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Health with the schools so that the private schools can inform
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safely the Ministry of Health in accordance with the legislation that governs the safe
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic transactions. e response of the above document regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of the processing in question, the Ministry of Health informed I that it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

depends on the p.d. 114/2014 (Ministry of Health Organization Chart) and the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Φ8/145/97610/Δ2/14.6.2016 document of the Ministry of Health (see above).
 

 

 

 

 

 

O I, considering that the above response of the Ministry of Health regarding its legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under processing is not correct, as, according to his claims, "no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

here the smallest thing is against the law and at the same time carries great risks
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in terms of data security" and "the Ministry of Health has not complied with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 as addressed to him by the Authority with letter no. 139/2014 decision of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appealed with the present complaint to the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the context of examining the said complaint, the Authority sent it with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/7646-1/01.12.2016 document, with which he notified both the Ministry of Health, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller, as well as at the Institute of Computer Technology and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Diofantos" Publications (hereinafter ITYE-Diofantos) as processing,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above complaint and invited them to submit their opinions in writing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and clarify, in particular, a) the provisions in which the obligation is provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration
 

personal
 

data
 

of
 

students/parents-

guardians/teachers of private schools in the "mySchool" system, b)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issues related to the security of the above processing, including
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the security issue of the website's SSL certificate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sso.sch.gr, of private schools' access to the above system without IP
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

addresses of the Panhellenic Cholic Network (P D), as well as the application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of recommendations b, c, d, f, h, i of point 6 of decision 139/2014 in combination
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the "mySchool" portal user manual, which is posted on the main page
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

page of the system in question dated 01.9.2014.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 then the Ministry of Health notified the Authority with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /8365/19.12.2016 document, with which it called on ITYE-Diofantos to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respond to b) question of the above document of the Authority. With no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /8494/23.12.2016 electronic message of the Secretariat of Electronics
 

 

 

 

 

 

Address, it was forwarded with no. prot. 219178/A3/21.12.2016 his document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department A' – Digital Design and Development of A/T Applications and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education, in which it was stated that the address in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"has no involvement in its design, development and operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" information section.
  

 

 

 

3
 

Subsequently, and given that the Authority did not receive a response to the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her document, resent it with no. prot. C/EX/1060/10.2.2017 document, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which pointed out both to the HYPETH and to the ITYE-Diofantos, that in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the event that he did not receive an answer, he would proceed with the exercise of his powers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

law of its competences.
  

 

 

 in response to the last above-mentioned document of the Authority, ITYE-Diofantos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent it with no. prot. G/EI /1074/10.2.2017 electronic message, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which forwarded to the Authority his document to the Ministry of Health, which contained
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

answers to the original with no. prot. G/EI /7646/23.11.2016 document of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and which, according to ITYE-Diofantos, the Ministry of Health should have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incorporate in its own response to the Authority.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following these, and mainly for the reason that the Authority did not accept reasonable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

period of time some response from the Ministry of Health to the above documents, he called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Ministry of Health, as the controller, the ITIE-Diofantos, as the executor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing as well as the complainant I, to attend its meeting
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Plenary of the Authority on Thursday 16-3-2017, for the discussion of the matter under review
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of I's complaint (corresponding call number C/EX/1721/02.3.2017,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/1722/02.3.2017, C/EX/1725/02.3.2017).
 

 

 then, Department B of Private Secondary Education and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Primary Education of the Ministry of Education and Culture sent to the Authority the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40496/GD4/09.3.2017 (prot. no. of the Authority G/EI /1964/10.3.2017) answer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document referring to the Authority's first clarifying document, without doing so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned in the Authority's second and last document. With the above document, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Health gave the following clarifications: a) private schools cannot
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are treated as businesses operating in free economy terms,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but are subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Health according to article 16 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of the Constitution and Law 682/1977 which refers to private education, b) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of Law 1566/1985, in accordance with article 62 par. 7 thereof, apply
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportionally also in private schools in order to have harmonization between them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of two forms of education (public and private), c) from the existing provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is no exception to the registration of students' details and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of educational private schools of first grade and second grade education. the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document
 

this
 

incorporated
 

the
 

answer
 

of
 

ITYE-Diofantos
 

 

4
 

(G/EI /1074/10.2.2017) regarding the issues concerning the safety of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing through the "mySchool" system.
 

 

 

 

 

 they attended the Authority's Plenary meeting from 16-3-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legally, they presented their views and answered questions from its members
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At the beginning the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Head of the General Directorate of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B, General Director of Primary and Secondary Personnel
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Education and C, Head of the Department of Private Primary Schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Education, the representatives of I, D, member of the board of directors, E,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I's advisor and partner in IT matters and Grigorios
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lazarakos, attorney-at-law, as well as the representatives of ITYE-Diofantos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 T, technician, responsible for the "mySchool" system and Z, supervisor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of department T1 of the Directorate of Educational Technology. In addition, the Ministry of Health and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 I submitted the no. prot. G/EI /2664/29-3-2017 and G/EI /2665/29-3-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reminders, respectively.
  

 

 subsequently, the Authority, with the electronic message dated 4/27/2017, invited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the ITYE-Diofantos in a meeting at its headquarters for the purpose of its presentation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operation of the "mySchool" system to the assistant lecturers. The ITU-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Diophantos accepted this invitation (prot. no. G/EI /3504/28-04-2017)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and at the meeting, which took place on 3-5-2017, it was presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system in a test environment by its representatives
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ITYE-Diofantos T and Z, who provided clarifications to their questions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant presenters submitted during the presentation. Further
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications regarding the security measures of the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were presented to the Authority by ITYE-Diofantos with the date of 02/5/2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic message (prot. no. G/EI /3511/02-05-2017). Also, with the from 04-5-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 e-mail was requested by ITYE-Diofantos to send to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the "screens" and the data registered in the "mySchool" system for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

panhellenic exams before and after the change in the way they are conducted, as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the "screens" concerning the data of private teachers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

schools. ITYE-Diofantos provided the above data with the from 04-5-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 electronic message (prot. no. G/EI /3637/05-5-2017).
  

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority met on 20/6/2017 to discuss the said case and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deemed it necessary to provide additional information regarding the collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

data of students-parents/guardians and teachers of private schools.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following this, the Authority requested from ITYE-Diofantos, with the 20/6/2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

email, to provide status with the type of all data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are kept in the "mySchool" system and concern students-parents/guardians and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

teachers. ITYE-Diofantos provided the requested data to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the e-mail from 21/6/2017. then, the Authority sent it with no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EX/4865/23-6-2017 document, with which he requested from the Ministry of Health and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to submit two completed statements (excel file with two sheets), the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which included the type of data (column A), one of the students-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of parents/guardians (on the first sheet of the excel file) and the other of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

teachers (on the second sheet of the excel file). For each of the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of students-parents/guardians and teachers were asked to complete
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

four columns (B-E). In particular, in the fields of column B it was requested to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fill in "YES", if the corresponding data in column A was transmitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Education from private schools before the "mySchool" system and "NO" to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

otherwise. the fields of column C were requested to be completed "YES", if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had been requested by the Ministry of Education and Culture to be registered in the "mySchool" system by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private schools the corresponding data in column A and "OXI" in the opposite
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case. the fields of column D asked to fill in which data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they considered on the one hand the HYPETH and on the other I , necessarily, according to their judgment,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the exercise of the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Health, as provided in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

current legislation (especially n. 682/1977, n. 4452/2017, p.d. 114/2014), in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the performance of a single student number and the conduct of the Panhellenic exams.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the fields in column E were asked to justify, in their judgment, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data they consider not necessary for his supervisory competence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Health, as provided for in the current legislation, in relation to performance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

uniform student number and the conduct of the pan-Hellenic exams. The Ministry of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replied to the Authority with no. prot. G/EI /5232/10-07-2017 document and o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 I with the no. prot. G/EI /5212/07-07-2017 document.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, the Authority sent the no. prot. G/EX/5399/14-07-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document, with which he requested the Ministry of Health and Welfare to document specifically, by invocation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any existing relevant provisions of the current legislation, the necessity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of registration in the "mySchool" system (as well as its necessity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

access by the relevant Director of Education) for each of the personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

student and teacher data (as listed in the corresponding column A
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the excel file), which he deems to be convenient and necessary for him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intended purpose of the supervisory authority of private schools, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

each time he is specialized (e.g. for the validation of study titles of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private schools, to check its pedagogical suitability
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

timetable, for the conduct of the Panhellenic exams, the control
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of teaching hours, etc.) and, in general, for the exercise of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsibilities of the relevant Director of Education. The Ministry of Health responded to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the no. prot. G/EI /5845/01-08-2017 document.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 then, the issues related to the measures are listed in more detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security of the "mySchool" system based on the above documents of the Ministry of Health,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ITYE-Diofantos and I.
 

 

 

 in the present complaint, I reported that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not complied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the recommendations under items 6a and 6g addressed to him by the Authority with no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. 139/2014 Decision regarding the security measures of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool".
 

 specifically, I raised the issue of non-compliance with recommendation 6a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the above decision, according to which the Ministry of Health must "(...) a) To proceed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 encryption, according to internationally accepted standards, at least, of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identification data of students and their parents-guardians (as well as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the identification data of all categories of subjects) that are kept on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data base of the said department (…)". I claimed not to know,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whether said encryption has been completed and raised the issue of security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the TLS certificate used to encrypt them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of transmitted data between his computer/browser
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user and the central server of the "mySchool" system. according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reportedly, the TLS certificate of the system in question is low
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security, compared to the corresponding certificates of the application of one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a private organization with a high level of security (such as the relevant application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a Bank). I provided indicatively two copies of reviews
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security overviews, as generated by the web browser
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chrome, one of which concerns the central website of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
 

"mySchool" and the other the website of Eurobank AE. her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided security overview of the banking website
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the designation "strong cipher" ("strong cipher") was mentioned, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they were referring to the equivalent of the "mySchool" system website
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"obsolete connection service" and "older
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

encryption" ("obsolete cipher"). I also mentioned that taxisnet,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to press information, has decided to implement an upgrade of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication protocols, with the result that they are no longer supported
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operating systems, such as Windows XP which are still used by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services – centralized and decentralized – of the Ministry of Health, (but they are not supported with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

new updates, which makes them unprotected and insecure).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, according to the present complaint, although the Authority with sub
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

items 6g recommendation of Decision 139/2014 requested from the Ministry of Health "(...) g) To
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure that the system excludes the flow of money originating from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from an IP address outside the Panhellenic School Network given that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application allows access only to users who are authenticated by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Central Accreditation Service of the Panhellenic School Network and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YPAITH does not document at all why the trial is allowed from all of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Greek IP addresses, which increases the risk of online attacks.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(…)", in no private school has been installed, by the competent authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IP address of P D, with the result that the above recommendation is not respected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle.
  

The Ministry of Health, as controller and the ITYE-Diofantos, as executor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the processing, they informed the Authority about the issues raised by I for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the security measures of the "mySchool" system, as follows:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the Authority's Decision 139/2014, its "security gaps" were not highlighted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

central database of the "mySchool" system. The beginning from the institution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in its role made recommendations, mainly regarding the strengthening of the safe
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of the application so that only authorized users have access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the name, register, class and details of parents/guardians of the students,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the confirmation of the non-access of users outside the school to these details,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

while in addition recommendations were made for the adoption of controlled procedures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access.
 

 

8
 

Regarding the issue of the security of the TLS certificate, the Ministry of Health reported
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that access to the "mySchool" system is done by authenticating it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user through the interface of entering the code in the central system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

certification/authorization (https://sso.sch.gr) and its change system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

password (https://register.sch.gr/password). directly with the Management and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Account Security instructions are available on the website https://sso.sch.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of safe use (https://sso.sch.gr/safetyInfo.jsp). With a frequency of at least two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

times a year, there is an update to the users from the service "Single Sign
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On" - SSO of P D in relation to the password and its security.
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The TLS certificate of the website https://sso.sch.gr is RSA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2048 bits (signature algorithm SHA256withRSA) and has been issued by TERENA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Certificate Authority. Some applications are required to serve and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

older browsers, which are built into old operating systems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

systems and for this reason the corresponding ciphers or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

older protocols. this is why the designation "obsolete cipher"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the security options of the Chrome browser, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there was a problem, an incomplete or reduced security message would be displayed.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The corresponding TLS certificates of the online banking sites
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organizations
 

such as
 

www.nbg.gr,
 

www.alpha.gr/e-banking/en
 

and
 

www.winbank.gr/sites/idiwtes/el/Pages/default.aspx is RSA 2048 bits (signature
 

 

 

 

 

 

algorithm SHA256withRSA) similar to sso.sch.gr. In addition, the TLS certificate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system after user authentication is also this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RSA 2048 bits (signature algorithm SHA256withRSA) and is categorized as A',
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from acquaintances
 

 

server security rating sites
 

 

 

 

 

web applications. The ones characterized by its latest editions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chrome of TLS certificates as obsolete ciphers under no circumstances
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means they are weak or create issues of insufficient security. They just have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implemented newer cipher creation methods (called "modern").
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos presented with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /1964/10-3-2017
 

document copies
 

 

of
 

security reviews
 

 

online
 

places
 

e-banking
 

banking
 

organizations
 

(e.g.
 

https://ibankretail.nbg.gr
 

(National),
 

www.alpha.gr/e-banking
 

(Alpha),
 

https://www.winbank.gr/sites/idiwtes/el/Pages/default.aspx (Piraeus)), as well as
 

 

 

 

 

9
 

of the GSIS (https://login.gsis.gr/mylogin/pages/login.jsp), from which it appears that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the websites in question were rated the same by the browser
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chrome (with that of the "mySchool" system) to use "obsolete ciphers".
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In view of the above, according to the Ministry of Health and the ITYE-Diofantos, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allegation referred to in I's complaint about his lack of security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" system does not correspond to reality.
  

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding the issue of accessing the "mySchool" system outside of IP
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Directorates of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos reported the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Access exclusively within P D cannot be a realistic option
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the "mySchool" system. All users utilize the tool, often
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and in non-working hours. In addition, users of its Central Service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Education, the users of the Institute of Educational Policy (IEP), as well as all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private schools do not have access to P D.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The system infrastructure remains safe from malicious attacks with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

help with certificates, monitoring systems and preventing attacks
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as firewall systems, and access to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allowed only to Greek IP addresses.
 

 

 

 

 

 

All units of the standard have access to the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary and Secondary education and all its administrative structures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

education. In addition, individual access accounts have also been attributed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users of the central service of the Ministry of Health, as well as at the Institute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Educational Policy. Non-formal schools will also have access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

training of the Ministry of Health for the utilization of the system as a computerized one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

daily operation tool. Also, taking advantage of the role of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

approximately 30,000 teachers and individuals have access to the department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accounts, as issued and maintained by P D. Its users
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system have an account at Π D, which has the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

management of these accounts. The codes for users to access the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

system are encrypted by P D.
 

 

 

 

 

The use of the "mySchool" system by private schools, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

examination of the case in question, is analyzed as follows:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 

Type
 

Usage rate
  
system (students)
 

 

 

System utilization rate
 
(educators)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary school
 

Private High School
 
Private High School with
 
High school classes
   
Private
 
 bile
 
Private
 
High School
 
Private
 
EPAL
 
Private High School
 
Private Kindergarten
 

Daily
 

Vespers
 

 

 

 

80.5%
 

100.0%
 

80.8%
 

100.0%
 

 
100.0%

 
98.9%

 
68.6%

61%
 

100%
 

54%
 

100%
 

 
100%

 
74%

 
47%

Also, the "mySchool" system integrates computer functions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the support of the panhellenic examinations at the level of school units and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MINISTRY OF It still receives data from the National OP ED system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Ministry of Public Health) based on KYA 1493/2016 as a result of the repeal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the paper presentation of the students' birth certificates. Also,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides the statistical data requested by EL TAT for each school
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

year.
 

The "mySchool" system can also be used outside standard hours,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as the possibilities provided by the system for the computerized support of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

structures are such that make its acceptance and utilization universal.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 it is often not possible to complete the administrative work within the standard
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

teachers' hours. In addition, a factor that does not allow the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

completion of all computer work during the standard
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hours is the fact that there are not the necessary workstations in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

professors' office (e.g. for each head of department) and in many
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases not even a computer. In view of this, in every newsletter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting of teachers, attended by ITYE-Diofantos, the request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access to the system outside working hours was universal. The requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arose during the system presentation days in 2014 in all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regions of the country in the presence of all the directors of school units, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are also recorded in electronic bulletins of the same period. The reasons are summarized
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the partial inadequacy of the infrastructure of P D in some cases to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11
 

respond to the effective coverage of school network needs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

units.
  

With the no. prot. G/EI /2665/29-3-2017 his memorandum, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted to the Authority following the 16-3-2017 hearing summons, I
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

raised, in addition to the issues mentioned above, the following related issues
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the security of the "mySchool" system. Particularly:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1) regarding the authentication of users, the following are mentioned, in summary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

quotes:
 

 

The authentication level of the "mySchool" system is not so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as strong as his confidence level warrants. Its online services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

system process "simple" data and data of special categories and,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

therefore, they are included in the highest level of trust, level 3.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The authentication of the "mySchool" system is low or moderate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

certainty about the correctness of the user's digital identity. The system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

uses a password for authentication, a fact that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ranks at authentication level 1 (low or moderate certainty about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

correctness of a user's digital identity). International safety standards
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

define that for the systems, which process "simple" and expert data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

categories and in which only authorized persons have the possibility
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access to the services offered, a high degree of certainty is required
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

correctness of the user's digital identity. This means that the mechanism
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication should use two-factor technology
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication) and specifically digital certificates or utilization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

loose or hard storage tokens instead of using authentication with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a simple password chosen for the 'mySchool' system.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The fact that it is registered in the "mySchool" system is very important
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of personal data and that many thousands are allowed access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

civil servants, who are geographically dispersed and have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access even from an internet cafe or their home, and this access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allowed by potentially vulnerable endpoints, renders
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolutely necessary to have a second level of security (2nd factor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication).
  

 

12
 



Also, reference is made to recommendation 6b of its decision 139/2014
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APDPH, according to which the Ministry of Health must "(...) take care, so that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

including the possibility of creating individual user accounts
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be assigned by appropriately authorized teachers of each college
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unit and employees of each administrative structure such as the directorate or regional
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

address, in order to avoid any sharing of my unique account
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attributed to the director of the college unit or the administrative structure for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carrying out all the tasks required by the service side
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" (…)". For this recommendation it is stated by I that it is known
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

throughout the educational community that "mySchool" is used by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least three (3) employees of each Education Directorate or each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Regional Directorate, except for the responsible Director. The result is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that all the above employees can share the username and password
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Director having, indeed, the possibility of access from their home and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from possibly infected PCs.
 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, it is reported that the 'mySchool' login interface is vulnerable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to attacks, because CAPTCHA is not applied when entering the codes,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is allowed to copy-paste (copy-paste) the codes in the respective ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fields, the browser is allowed to save the password, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is simply given as advice to users "Avoid storing it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 password from the browser and prefer to retype it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

every time" and no encryption is applied to passwords.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2) regarding the Security Policy of the "mySchool" system, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

below, summarized:
  

 

 

The "mySchool" system is not properly designed to prevent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

threats during the user registration process, because a) the creation of a new
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account is vulnerable to threats and is not secure since it does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

verifies the user's identity (page 26 of the Security Policy), b) h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

retrieving account credentials is not secure (page 30 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security Policy), c) the process of removing user access is wrong
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

designed and involves many security risks (page 31 of the Policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security).
  

 

13
 

Also, the "mySchool" system appears to be vulnerable to a crowd
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attacks, as these have not been provided for by the Security Policy. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security Policy does not correspond to the level required by the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'mySchool', does not appear to be revised regularly, is not known to users,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no compliance checks are carried out, no procedure has been provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risk management and periodic vulnerability checks are not foreseen and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incident and has basic deficiencies in content.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

3) regarding additional issues for the 6g recommendation of Decision 139/2014 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following, briefly listed, are mentioned in the APDPH:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The use of a PC outside a closed network (P D) and, indeed, from places outside
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the office carries many risks for the interception of codes and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, particularly on a system that is not protected by a strong
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication. Indicatively, it is stated that the system is not protected by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"viruses", "Trojan horses" and "worms" (virus, trojan horses, worms) in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

local computers from which it is accessed and which it can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the whole family to use. It can also be accessed from the internet
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cafe or a friend's PC, where the user fails to log out or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whose network is monitored, by free wifi, by mobile phone and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tablets or from PCs with old operating systems windows XP, vista, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are not supported with new security releases from Microsoft. The mentioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from ITYE-Diophanto security measures, according to I, cannot
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cover the interception of the identifiers and passwords of the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases resulting in the malicious user gaining access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

student and teacher data.
  

 

 

 

 

Regarding the use of the "mySchool" system during non-working hours
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and outside standard hours, I reported that the above practice is contrary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the labor legislation, as it implies a direct violation of the legislation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions that have been established for the defense of the rights of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers and, above all, the exclusion of labor exploitation phenomena
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

potential. He also stated that it goes without saying that private schools do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

willing to adopt delinquent behavior against teachers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the employees of the schools, who have been hired to provide the services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in a given way and at a given time and place.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14
 

4) regarding other security measures of the "mySchool" system, refer to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following, summarized:
 

 

 

System users are not trained in security issues. The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

diaries and the electronic messages sent twice a year to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users of the P D SSO service in relation to the password and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his safety, are a formal and not an essential training process of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users. Users are easy, due to lack of training, to fall victim
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fraud ("phishing") to intercept codes.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The "mySchool" system presents availability problems, because from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at 23.30 on 16-3-2017 and until the morning of the next day it was not working.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is not possible to enter mass data from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information systems of private schools in the "mySchool" system with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

xml files, although, according to I, during the hearing process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was mentioned before the Authority that this possibility exists. I sent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the Authority, to prove, as he states, his claim, from 16.3.2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Email message with attached screenshots and the manual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of use of the "mySchool" system, according to which the mass introduction of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of the students is done from an excel file.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 according to I, questions regarding the security of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

creates the ability to search and find all private elements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

teacher, including this AKMA, alone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration of the teacher's tax identification number in this system. This is provided for in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" user manual and the screenshots contained therein.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To refute the claim that AMKA exists as an image in the manual but
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

does not work, the representative of I sent the Authority from 16.3.2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Email message with screenshots of the application attached
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and with details of a specific teacher, according to which it also appears
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his AMKA.
 
 

 

Also, according to I, security questions and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of personal data is created by the interconnection of the base
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data from the "mySchool" system based on the National Census and,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mainly, the fact that users of the "mySchool" system can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

search for the student's data in the National Census database. In addition, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
 

I reported that he was informed that the codes of the database and of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

encryption of the "mySchool" system has only one person.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, in his above memorandum, I argues that the Authority should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to ask the data controller to carry out a study
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact assessment for the protection of his personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system as defined in article 35 of the General Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on Data Protection (EU) 2016/679.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of what was mentioned during the hearing, after hearing the speakers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the assistant rapporteurs, who then left before the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conference and decision-making, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Private education is under the supervision of the State according to the constitution,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 16 par. 2 and 8 which states that "[…] 2. Education is basic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mission of the State and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

physical education of the Greeks, the development of the national and religious
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conscience and their development into free and responsible citizens.[…] 8.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law defines the conditions and conditions for granting a license for the establishment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and operation of schools that do not belong to the State, the related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervision exercised over them, as well as his official status
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their teaching staff."
 

 

 

 

2. Article 4 par. 1 of the applicable to the case under consideration L.2472/1997 (A'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50) states that "Personal data to be lawful
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing must: a) Be collected in a legitimate and legal way for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

defined, clear and legitimate purposes and exist legitimately and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lawful processing in view of these purposes. b) Be relevant, convenient,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and no more than is required in each case in view of its purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16
 

processing. c) To be accurate and, if necessary, to be submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

update. d) [...]'.
 

 

 

 

3. Article 10 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997 stipulates that "the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must take the appropriate organizational and technical measures for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security of data and its protection from accidental or unlawful
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

destruction, accidental loss, alteration, prohibited dissemination or access and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any other form of unfair processing. These measures must ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level of security commensurate with the risks involved in the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the nature of the data that is the object of the processing.[…].” THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this obligation falls accordingly on each processor,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with par. 4 of the same article.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Article 1 of Law 682/1977 "On Private Schools of General Education
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Boarding Schools" (A' 244), as applicable, stipulates that "Private general schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of education, according to the meaning of this law, are the corresponding to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public schools of general primary or secondary education that do not belong to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

State, but established and maintained by natural or legal persons,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to the specific provisions of this law." Further, in article 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 and 5 it is defined that "1. The Private schools of general education
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fall under the competence of the Ministry of National Education and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Religions, exercising supervision over them through the regional ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervisory bodies. [...] 5. For disciplinary responsibility and in general
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure and any other relevant matter concerning disciplinary proceedings and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

penalties for teachers of private general education schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provisions of Law 3528/2007 shall be applied proportionally."1.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Article 62 par. 7 of Law 1566/1985 "Structure and operation of the primary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and secondary education and other provisions" (A΄ 167) provides that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Without prejudice to paragraph 4 of article 52, the provisions thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of law are applied accordingly to private primary school units
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and secondary education and to their educational staff, except
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the provisions of cases A', B' and C' of article 11."2.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
1 Paragraph 5 was added by article 41 of Law 4301/2014.
 
 
2 Article 52 was repealed by Article 3 of Y. A. T. 5/26 (Domestic Household National Education) of 4/5.10.88,
 
 
B΄732. In addition, according to article 110 par. 1b of Law 4547/2018, Official Gazette A 102/12.6.2018: "With the reservation
 
of article 20 and in particular paragraphs 8, 9 and 12 to 15 of this article, every provision is repealed
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17
 



6. With article 2 par. 2 para. i' of the p.d. 114/2014 "Ministry Organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Education and Religions", (A' 181), as this was supplemented by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recent Law 4452/2017 (see below) defines "Self-employed Address
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Private Education". With article 40 of the same as above p.d., like this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

added by Law 4452/2017, the following are defined: "1. Business objective
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Independent Directorate of Private Education is the supervision of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private schools of primary and secondary education, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the quality of the training provided to them, the handling
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issues of the staff and their owners, as well as its supervision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operation of foreign schools, tutoring schools and centers for foreigners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

languages. 2. The Independent Directorate of Private Education reports directly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the General Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religions.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. The Independent Directorate of Private Education is composed of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following organic units: a) Department A of private primary schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and secondary education […]. 4. Section A of private schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of primary and secondary education is responsible for: a)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervision of all private primary and secondary schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

education, b) the granting, modification, updating, transfer and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

revocation of the license of private primary and secondary schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

education, c) every issue related to the organization and operation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private schools of primary and secondary education, and d) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

handling any other relevant matter. 5. Department B of private personnel
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of primary and secondary schools is responsible for: a)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the registration in the Yearbook, as well as the supervision of the issues
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

service status of private primary teachers and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of secondary education in accordance with the present provisions, b) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disciplinary cases of private teachers, as well as owners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and legal representatives of
 

 

 

 

of private primary schools and
 

 

 

 

secondary education, and c) the handling of any other relevant matter.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
[…].”.

 

7. Article 41 par. 2 of Law 4301/2014 "Organization of the legal form of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

religious communities and their associations in Greece and others
 
                                                                                                                                                                          
which is in conflict with the provisions hereof and, in particular, the following: a) [...], b) the Chapters
 
 
A to C` of article 11 […].
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18
 

provisions of the competence of the General Secretariat of Religions and others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions" (A΄ 223) stipulates that "[…] 2. Paragraph 5 is added to article 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 682/1977 as follows: For disciplinary responsibility and in general
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure and any other relevant matter concerning disciplinary proceedings and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

penalties for teachers of private general education schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provisions of Law 3528/2007 shall be applied proportionally."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8. Article 41 par. 1 of Law 4351/2015 "Grassable lands of Greece and other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions" (A΄ 164) provides regarding the high school diplomas of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private schools that "1. The true meaning of the provision of the second paragraph
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of paragraph 5 of article 16 of Law 3149/2003 (A' 141) is that the issued
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dismissal titles of the students of the private schools are considered by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

director of the relevant secondary education directorate, in addition to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

high school diplomas of dismissal of the students awarded by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recognized as equal to public private primary schools and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of secondary education".
  

 

 

9. Article 7 par. 1 a' of Law 4452/2017 "Regulation of matters of the State
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Certificate of Language Proficiency, of the National Library of Greece and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other provisions" (A' 17), as applicable, provides that "1. a) One is established
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Education Number, which is issued based on the Registry Number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Social Security, is unchanged for every natural person and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is maintained even after the end of the studies. The Single Number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Education is attributed with the person's first entry into
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any level of education in the country, public or private. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Single Education Number corresponds to a relevant personalized registration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the relevant information system of the Ministry of Education, Research and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Religions. b) [...]."3.
 

 

 

10. the no. KYA 1493 (Government Gazette B 298/12-02-2016) interconnection is provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" Information System of the Institute of Technology
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Computers and Publications, (ITYE) "Diofantos", under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

central database of the Integrated Information System
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

National Census. specifically, in par. 1 and 2 of the article itself
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as above KYA provides for the access of ITYE-Diofantos, as accredited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
3 Paragraph 1 was replaced as above by article 18 of Law 4521/2018 (A' 38).
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19
 

body, in the central database of the OP ED National Census for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the exercise of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health, as well as the access of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" on the above basis exclusively for the processing of the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tasks with the registration and monitoring of students in Kindergartens -
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary - Middle - High School. Also, in par. 3 of the above-mentioned article alone
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KYA defines that "(...) The necessary information for the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

related tasks of registration and monitoring of students at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kindergartens - Primary - Middle - High schools will be transferred digitally from
 

   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

OP ED in the Information System "my school" of the ITU "Diofantos" for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Education, Research and Religions (…)"). In addition, in par. 4
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is stipulated that the administration of the ITU "Diofantos" must receive the appropriate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical and organizational security measures. Furthermore, according to par. 7, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services "under the competence of the Ministry of Health (exclusively:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kindergartens - Primary - High Schools - High Schools)" and have access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" are looking for the required information to process them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedures of their competence, through "mySchool", by the OP ED
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

National census and are not allowed to ask citizens to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proceed with the presentation of supporting documents which include the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information provided by the OP ED.
 

 

 

 

 

 

11. Security issues during the exercise of powers by its operators
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public sector using ICT, during communication and transaction between them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public sector bodies using ICT, or between public bodies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sector and natural or legal persons under private law, as well as in terms of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the access of natural persons or legal persons under private law to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public documents and making them available for further use using ICT
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are regulated in Law 3979/2011 (A' 138) on electronic government (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in particular article 2, article 3,. article 17 par. 1 and 3, article 21 par. 2, article 22 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1, article 32 par. 4).
  

 

 

 

 

12. By authorization of articles 27 of Law 3731/2008 (Α΄ 263) and 17 par. 3 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21 par. 2 of Law 3979/2011 was issued under no. YAP/F.40.4/1/989 decision of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deputy Minister of Administrative Reform and Electronic Government,
 

 

 

 

 

 

(Government Gazette B΄ 1301/12.04.2012) entitled "Sanction of Service Provision Framework
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Electronic Government" (hereafter PPYID). In particular, in PPYID
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20
 

the rules and standards for registration, identification and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic identification of citizens in electronic public services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sector and specifically in its Annex III (Framework of Digital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authentication).
 

 

a. according to the PPYID, the user authentication conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are determined by the level of trust, to which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic services provided. The
 

 

 

 

flat
 

trust
 

are categorized according to the type of data they use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(personal, sensitive and financial), but also the possible effects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which may be caused in case of improper operation or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their management. In particular, they are included in confidence level 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services that require the exchange of personal data, which do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are sensitive, such as, for example, data concerning the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user's marital status, date of birth, gender, etc.,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

while trust level 3 includes either services that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

require the exchange of sensitive data, or electronic services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level 4 completion, where the user also performs the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

financial transactions required electronically.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b. Also, according to the PPYID, the authentication mechanisms that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recommended for authentication level 1 include
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

passwords, one-time passwords (which are a form of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

two-factor authentication) or a combination
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these. The authentication mechanisms proposed for the layer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication 2 use digital certificates, it is recommended
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and exploiting soft or hard storage tokens.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c. the rules standardized at the end of Annex III thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PPYED is defined as the services that have joined the level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

trust level 2 must adopt authentication level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least 1 (K.Y. 9) and the services that have joined the level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

trust level 3 must adopt authentication level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least 1, while authentication level 2 (K.Y. 10) is recommended. The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services that have adopted authentication level 1 must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use as an authentication mechanism at least
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21
 

passwords (K.Y. 11).
  

 

 

13. the processing in question, purpose of registering the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of students/parents-guardians and teachers of the private schools in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" system is the facilitation, but also the improvement of the exercise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

graded and hierarchical supervisory authority of the Ministry of Health through the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by place and by material of the competent bodies of the administration of the First Degree and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private education, as provided for in the text
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Second grade
 

legislation.
 

During the examination of the case it was found that the following apply:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A) Regarding teachers:
 

 

 

 

 

From the above provisions and more generally from the current legislation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is concluded that the competent services of the Ministry of Health have the supervision of the organization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private schools regarding the teaching staff working in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that's all. Besides, private schools already transmit to the Ministry of Education and Culture based on the text
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legislation all categories of teachers' personal data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are kept in the "mySchool"4 system for public schools, except for those that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are exclusively related to work in a public school, such as e.g. retrospective
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appointment, voluntary resignation, intention to resign coc.
  

 

 

 

 

 

Consequently, the data of private school teachers who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is not necessary for the above purpose and by extension for the present case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration in the system, in contrast to what applies to their teachers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public schools, are as follows: 1. Transfer Area/Organic Position, 2.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Received a Transfer, 3. More than 5 years Secondment to a school abroad, 4.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Five-year term in Standard Experimental Schools (P.P. .) and 5. End of term in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P.P. .. These categories of personal data are not required, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

provisions of the current legislation, to be registered in the system for them
 
                                                            
4 The 44 types of personal data contained in the "mySchool" system are as follows:
 
 
Surname, First name, Father's name, Mother's name, Registration number, A.F.M, AMKA Gender,
 
Date of birth, Employee status, employment status, Degree, Compulsory Education
 
Time, Gazette of Appointment = Number, Date, publication order, Retrospective Appointment (YES OR
 
NO), Specialties - Main Specialty, Education Level, Employee Status, MK,
 
Date of 1st Assumption of Service, Personal File Position, Organic/Temporary
 
placement, Organic Transfer Area, Supervising Agency, Voluntary Retirement
 
(checkbox), Intention to Resign (checkbox), Received Transfer (checkbox), Over-5-Year Posting
 
in a foreign school (checkbox), Five-year term in Standard Experimental Schools (P.P. ).
 
(checkbox), Expiration of Term in P.P. , Address, Area, Postal Code, Municipal Unit, Landline, Mobile,
 
Other, Email addresses, reductions, Leave, Absences, Teacher assignments to
 
unit, Working hours details of the employee, Placements in other units.
 

 
 
 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22
 

private school teachers. After all, they are not necessarily judged for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising the supervision of the Ministry of Health, the following information: 1. Address, 2. Area, 3.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Postal code, 4. Municipal unit, 5. landline, 6. other telephones and, therefore, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their registration in the system contradicts the principle of proportionality.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The rest of the data already held in the "mySchool" system for them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public school teachers must, based on the aforementioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions, to be observed also for the teachers of the private schools so that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervision of the Ministry of Education and Culture to be effective. However, access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific users of the system and its manager must have these
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the school unit, the relevant education director, the regional one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

director of education in the context of his responsibilities, as well as the central
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

service of the Ministry of Health. This last service should only have access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information that is necessary for the issuance of administrative acts related to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the professional status of teachers.
 

 

 

 

 

According to the opinion of the member of the Authority K. Christodoulou, its principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of necessity requires the examination by the Authority of the legality of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration in the above system should not be limited to the question of which data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are permitted to be disclosed and forwarded to the Ministry of Health, but to include the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

medium of processing. That is, to examine whether the access to these data from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the competent bodies of the Ministry of Education and Culture should not be done through the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool", but in other, safe ways, under the supervision of the relevant Administrator
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Education.
 

B) Regarding students:
 

 

 

 

 

 contrary to what applies to teachers, private schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they transmitted only statistical data about the students to the Ministry of Education and Culture
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they concern the number of departments per class and department, as well as the whole
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of students of each private school. purpose of this transmission is,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among others, the planning of the educational policy by the Ministry of Education.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

During the examination of the present case, it was found that especially for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

panhellenic exams and, in particular, for the participation of students in them, from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

start of operation of the system and up to now are registered by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23
 

private schools in the system 13 of the 90 types of personal data of students
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of public schools included in the system5.
 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, a single pupil number has been established for the purpose of uniformity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his identification in order to monitor his course during the school years
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of study, regardless of the units or the geographical regions in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is studying According to the claims of I the purpose of identifying the student
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is fully satisfied with the registration of 3 to 4 personal categories
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

student data: 1. Student's name 2. Student's last name 3. Father's name and 4.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date of birth. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health claims that all the 90 data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contained in the system is necessary for its supervisory competence and for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above-mentioned purpose of establishing the uniform student number. Moreover,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after the start of operation of the system they are registered at the school level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unit (private school) in the system, while he has exclusive access to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

school principal. The central service of the Ministry of Health has access only to
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

statistical data.
 

 

 according to the principle of proportionality, as defined above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 4 of Law 2472/1997, the Ministry of Health must process only the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are absolutely necessary for the realization of its intended purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, i.e. ensuring the transparency and reliability of all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the procedures provided for by law through the unified and direct control by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Central Administration, but also the better and unified supervision of the Ministry of Health
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in all school units. Processing is therefore permitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only those personal data of students of private schools, the collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and compliance with which is specifically provided for by the current legislative regime or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is necessary for the exercise of the powers of supervision of the relevant services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Minister of State In addition, from the above-mentioned provision of article 4 par. 1 n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4351/2015 clearly infers the will of the legislator to have the supervision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the control of the issuance of all types of private degrees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

schools by the head of the relevant Directorate of Primary Education.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is, therefore, necessary to register the students' personal details
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
5 These are the following student data: 1. First name 2. Surname 3. Father's name 4. Mother's name
 
 
5. Date of birth 6. Registration number 7. Municipality of registration 8. Mother's gender 9. Address
 
student 10. Postal code 11. Telephone 12. school of origin 13. Specialist number
 
school of origin register.
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24
 

in order to make it possible to identify their personal information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

students when their dismissal certificates are considered by the competent Director
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Education.
 

Against
 

the above
 

 

exposed, in the "mySchool" system legally
 

 

 

 

 

the details of the students of the private schools are registered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access to these data by the competent body in terms of material and location
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Health for the exercise of its supervisory authority, regarding: a) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performance of the uniform student number, b) the conduct of the pan-Hellenic exams,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as c) the consideration of baccalaureate degrees. It goes without saying that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above relate to the registration and access to the system and do not prevent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the exercise of the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Health, as well as the search
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

student data.
 

 

According to the opinion, however, of the member of the Authority K. Christodoulou, apart from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

elements expressly provided for in the current legislation, there is none
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other legislative provision, by which it becomes necessary and mandatory h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration of the remaining data contained in the system. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and documentation from the Ministry of Health of the necessity of the registration under consideration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given the students of private schools in the system is general and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vague, despite his relative projected opinion that the entry in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is inextricably linked to his supervisory competence.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C) Regarding security measures:
  

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority has already pointed out, with Decision 139/2014, that it becomes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is imperative to maintain a high level of security because in the database
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system, which is accessible via the Internet,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a large volume of personal data of students/parents is registered-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guardians and teachers of the country.
  

 

 

 

 

 

C1) Regarding the implementation of the 6th recommendation of Decision 139/2014 of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the issue of TLS certificate security:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 6a of Decision 139/2014, which concerns encryption
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data of the "mySchool" system (at least the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identification of the subjects) at the database level, has, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant response from the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the ITU-Diofantos, already implemented.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25
 

Regarding the TLS protocol, it is pointed out that it is used for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the confidentiality of the transmitted data between two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communicating nodes through the encryption of this data (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision 121/2014 of the Authority, available on its website). The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this protocol is provided in versions 1.0, 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 and is a successor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the SSL protocol (which is provided in versions 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0). Each one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

version of the TLS protocol fixes/mitigates vulnerabilities of the previous ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

publications. it is recommended to avoid using TLS version 1.0 because the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SSL 3.0 vulnerabilities can also be exploited in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case of using the TLS 1.0 protocol, which supports the version
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SSL 3.06. Furthermore, the existence of known attacks (such as padding oracle attack,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BEAST attack, Lucky Thirteen attack) sets specific requirements regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of symmetric encryption algorithms in the TLS7 protocol.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 according to the relevant answer of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture-Diofantos, both
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The
 

central
 

online
 

locus
 

of
 

system
 

"mySchool"
 

(https://app.myschool.sch.gr), as well as the website of the central service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

certification of the P D (https://sso.sch.gr) have the protocol installed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TLS 1.2. In order to serve older browsers, who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are built into older operating systems as well which may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

still exist in some schools, the corresponding "ciphers" are also supported
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(cryptographic algorithms) or older protocols (TLS 1.0).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

                                                            
6 Cf. a) B. Moller, T. Duong, and K. Kotowicz., 2014, “This poodle bites: Exploiting the SSL 3.0
 
 
fallback. https://www.openssl.org/~bodo/ssl-poodle.pdf” and b) NIST Special Publication 800-52
 
Revision 1.
 
7 If block ciphers are used, the CBC encryption method should be avoided
 
 
due to padding oracle attack, BEAST attack and Lucky Thirteen Attack (cf. a) B.
 
Canvel, A. Hiltgen, S. Vaudenay, and M. Vuagnoux. Password interception in an SSL/TLS channel. In
 
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2003: 23rd Annual International Cryptology Conference, Lecture
 
Notes in Computer Science, vol. 2729, pages 583-599. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, August 2003, b) T.
 
Duong and J. Rizzo. Here come the xor ninjas. In Ekoparty Security Conference, 2011 and c) N. J.
 
Al Fardan and K. G. Paterson. Lucky thirteen: Breaking the TLS and DTLS record protocols. In IEEE
 
 
Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 526-540, May 2013).
  
Also, the RC4 algorithm should be avoided, because if used they can
 
 
other attacks take place, due to inherent weaknesses of RC4.
 
  
(see a) N. J. AlFardan, D. J. Bernstein, K. G. Paterson, B. Poettering, and J. C. N. Schuldt. On the
 
 
security of RC4 in TLS. In Proceedings of the 22d USENIX Conference on Security, S, pages
 
305{320. USENIX Association, August 2013 b) K. G. Paterson, B. Poettering, and J. C. N. Schuldt.
 
Big Bias Hunting in Amazonia: Large-Scale Computation and Exploitation of RC4 Biases (Invited
 
Paper), pages 398{419. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 8873. Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
 
December 2014).
  
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26
 

From a relevant overview, when examining the case at hand,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it seems that, both the above websites, and the websites
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

https://myschool.sch.gr/ (initial website that leads to the online
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

location of the central certification service without appearing to be taking place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

through
 

his
 

processing
 

personal
 

data),
 

https://register.sch.gr/password/change_password/
 

(change website
 

 

 

password of P D) and https://register.sch.gr/password/reset_password/
 

 

 

 

 

 

(P D password recovery website), have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TLS 1.2 certificate. Additionally, the browser security reviews
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chrome reports for all of their websites above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

designations "strong cipher" ("strong encryption") and "strong key
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exchange" ("strong key exchange").
  

 

 

 

Recommendation 1: The HYPETH and ITYE-Diofantos, as far as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accordingly, they must ensure that there is no possibility of support
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the previous versions of the TLS 1.2 protocol, i.e. 1.0 and 1.1 in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any of the websites that support the feature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system, as well as not to use the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cryptographic algorithms already blocked in its version 1.3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TLS protocol. The Ministry of Health must ensure the appropriate adjustment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the computers of the school units and the administrative structures that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are used to log in to the "mySchool" system.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

C2) Regarding the implementation of recommendation 6g of Decision 139/2014 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle:
  

The Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos clarified with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /7689/08-12-2014 document (which was sent to the Authority following the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision 139/2014), the no. prot. G/EI /8320/16-12-2016 document (which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent after the no. original C/EX/7648/23-11-2016 of the Authority's document,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of examining compliance with Decision 139/2014) and under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot. G/EI /1964/10-3-2017 memo (concerning the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint) that the restriction on access (i.e. access to "mySchool"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only from IP addresses of Π D) set by the implementation of its recommendation 6g
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Decision 139/2014 is not a realistic option for the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27
 

for the reasons set forth in these documents and listed in her history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present.
 

It is pointed out that electronic government systems, as indicative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Electronic Prescribing system and the taxisnet system, in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a huge amount of personal data is processed (in the first place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of special categories related to health and the second data which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are protected by tax secrecy and are used for the provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services for carrying out financial transactions electronically) and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which have common features with the "mySchool" system (such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access the system via the internet using a TLS certificate and use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

passwords as a user authentication mechanism), provide them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corresponding services without restricting users' access.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, the personal data processed in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" system, as it appears from the situations with the personal ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of students, parents/guardians and teachers sent to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority from ITYE-Diofantos, in accordance with Decision 139/2014 (which does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allows the registration of his special category data in "mySchool".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

student's individual health record), usually include "simply"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data, with the exception of the religion of students in specific,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases provided for by law (see paragraph 4 of Decision 139/2014). e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

each case, whether the services provided are included in the level
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

confidence level 2 ("simple" data) or at level 3 (expert data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

categories), must be adopted, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

the PPYEDN, level
 

 

 

authentication of at least 1 (which it must use as a mechanism
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication
 

by
 

minimum
 

passwords),
 

 

while
 

the
 

level
 

authentication 2 is recommended for trust level 3. The system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" implements authentication level 1, i.e. passwords, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided for in the PPYID.
 

 

 

Recommendation 2nd: Following these and because the "mySchool" system implements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least authentication level 1 and, as specified by the Ministry of Health and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the ITYE-Diofantos, it is not possible to limit access only to IPs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

addresses of the P D for its proper operation and proper utilization
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

system, it is considered that two authentication implementation should be considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28
 

factors (two-factor authentication), for the connections made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the "mySchool" system from IP addresses outside of Π D and be updated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the Authority. in case of non-application of this method
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authentication, the reasons must be justified.
 

 

 

 

 

 

C3) For the additional issues raised by I with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /2665/29-3-2017 his memorandum regarding the security of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool", the following are listed:
 

 

 

 

C3(a) regarding the authentication of users of the "mySchool" system:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The issues that were raised with the above memorandum regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user authentication and trust level mapping
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the provided service and authentication level, (see its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present), were examined in point C2 of the reasoning of this decision.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding the encryption of users' passwords, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responses of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and Welfare-Diofantos (see history of the present), the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

passwords of the users of the "mySchool" system are encrypted by P D.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, from an overview of the website's login interface
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

https://sso.sch.gr/login when examining the case at hand, it seems not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAPTCHA is used and it is possible to copy and paste them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

codes in the respective fields. It is pointed out that the input interfaces of all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of websites mentioned, for comparative purposes, by I
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Eurobank bank - https://ebanking.eurobank.gr/ebanking/login.faces) and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

MINISTRY OF
 

and
 

ITYE-Diofantos
 

(banks
 

National
 

https://ibankretail.nbg.gr/sts/Account/Login/web, Alpha
 

 

https://www.alpha.gr/e-

banking, Piraeus https://www.winbank.gr/sites/idiwtes/el/Pages/default.aspx and
 

 

 

 

taxisnet https://login.gsis.gr/mylogin/pages/login.jsp), do not apply CAPTCHA
 

 

 

 

 

on the respective input interfaces and allow copying – pasting of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

codes (as seen after reviewing the above websites,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also, when examining the case at hand). In addition, it is noted that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to reports8, Google disputed that CAPTCHA, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
8 Cf. indicatively http://tech.in.gr/news/article/?aid=1231368514, http://www.independent.co.uk/life-
 
style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-captcha-re-robot-image-recognition-artificial-intelligence-website-
 
a7627331.html,
 
https://gizmodo.com/google-has-finally-killed-the-captcha-1793190374
 

 

 

29
 

generally considered annoying by the online community, it can now be
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guarantee security, as there are algorithmic methods that yield the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

garbled text with high accuracy and introduced the reCaptcha mechanism
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(https://www.google.com/recaptcha/intro/invisible.html). In addition, it is noted that
 

 

 

 

the "mySchool" system provides for the "locking" of the account after one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of repeated failed connection attempts.
  

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 3: Following these, the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diophantos, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part that belongs to him, they must send in writing to the Authority documented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opinion on the issue of whether a) the user input interface to the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" is vulnerable to attacks because it does not have CAPTCHA and allows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the copy-pasting of the codes in the respective fields and b) is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary for the "mySchool" system to disable the possibility of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users' browsers to save the password when logging in,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taking into account that for connections other than Π Δ it is recommended to examine it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

two-factor authentication application. If so, you must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure the implementation of the above.
 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(b) in relation to the 6g recommendation of Decision 139/2014 of the Authority:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

The issue that was raised with the above memorandum of I regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interception of their usernames and passwords
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users, who connect to the "mySchool" system from IP addresses other than
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of P D (from any computers infected with viruses with old
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operating systems, which may be at home, in an internet cafe, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of free wi-fi as well as mobile phones and tablets) (see history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this) is covered by point C2 of the reasoning of this decision.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Besides, the issue that was raised in the above memorandum of I, that the use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system outside standard working hours contravenes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

labor legislation, escapes the competences of the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(c) regarding the Security Policy of the "mySchool" system:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I, based on the content of the Security Policy, with the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his memo referred to shortcomings of the Security Policy and claimed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the "mySchool" system is not properly designed to prevent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                                                                                                                                          

 

 

 

30
 

threats during the registration process and appears to be vulnerable to many
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attacks, as these are not provided for in the Security Policy (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

history of the present). It is pointed out that, however, shortcomings (of the content)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Security Policy do not demonstrate/document without other application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of missing or insufficient security measures or that the system is vulnerable to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attacks.
  

Recommendation 4th: Therefore, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture - Diophantos must
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure the revision and updating of its Security Policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system, so that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rules and the procedures followed. Also, there must be
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mapping between the procedures and rules reflected in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security Policy and security measures applied to the system. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security Policy must be reviewed on a regular basis and updated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about the users (such as by posting the Security Policy on the internet
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

site of the "mySchool" system). Especially for the procedures of creating a new one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account in the "mySchool" system and retrieving access information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

care must be taken so that the account details
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are sent exclusively to the users they concern (such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

individual email accounts of these users)
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(d) regarding the education of the users of the "mySchool" system:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I claims with his memo that the users of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" is not trained in security matters (see its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present).
  

With the nos. prot. G/EI /8320/16-12-2016 and G/EI /1964/10-3-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documents, the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos informed the Authority that they have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

programmed information days regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operation of the "mySchool" system in all educational districts with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

participation of the directors of the school units of each region and others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interested teachers. the said meetings were presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issues of security and protection of personal data.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, the request to create a new account in the system includes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

terms of use and confidentiality statement. the terms of use state that a)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provided login account pertains to the specific user and
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31
 

is used exclusively by him, b) disclosure to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the use of the code by third parties and c) the electronic actions of users
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are recorded with the aim of protecting the correctness of the data and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

avoiding violation of legal rules. In addition, every user who logs in for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the first time the system is informed about the terms of use of the account and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must read the provisions of the confidentiality statement. Only then
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can proceed to use the system. with next connection, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pop-ups do not appear, but exist as links at the bottom
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part
 

her
 

interface
 

of
 

system
 

("Terms of use",
 

 

"Declaration
 

Confidentiality").
 

 according to the HYPETH and ITYE-Diofantos, since the platform does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject to changes affecting security issues, the updating of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users on matters of safe use of the application and the update regarding it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of accounts, both during a user's application process and in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

final rendering of the account by P D, is sufficient and substantial, so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

managers and other users to be fully aware of their importance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security issues and the principles that should govern their preservation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accounts and their passwords. For these reasons, no guide was drawn up
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users on security issues.
 

 

 

 

 

Also, it is stated that with a frequency of at least twice a year
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is an update to the users from the SSO service of P D in relation to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

password and its security and attached to answer one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such informational message.
 

 

 

The above attached informative message appears to contain
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing users to recognize and avoid misleading messages
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"phishing" type and misleading password interception websites
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access, management of unsolicited electronic communication messages
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(spam), as well as information about the possible deception of users and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

installing malware on their computers.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the website of the Central Certification Service of P. D
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(https://sso.sch.gr/safetyInfo.jsp), which is used for authentication
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the users of the "mySchool" system, there are posted instructions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safe use of the services of P D, which concern authenticity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32
 

of the service page, the protection and non-disclosure of the password and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her
 

safe
 

log out
 

from
 

her
 

service. Also,
 

 

at
 

page
 

http://www.sch.gr/password of Π D for changing their passwords
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users there is a "Safety and Protection" section, which includes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following user information sub-sections: protection against misleading
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

messages, security and virus protection instructions, virus protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in mail, latest virus update, firewall
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(firewall), spam protection, mail blocking
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(rbl), internet security.
  

 

 

 

Recommendation 5th: Following these, the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos must,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at a minimum, to draw up a single guide, in which it can be found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gathered all the information required to inform users
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system in matters of security and personal protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data and which must be easily provided to users (such as with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

posting on the website of the "mySchool" system).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(e) regarding availability problems of the "mySchool" system:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I's reference to a single case of system failure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool", i.e. from 23.30 on 16.3.2017 until the morning of the following day, does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

substantiates his claim that this system presents problems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

availability or general security issue.
 

 

 

 

 

7f) in relation to the lack of possibility of mass input of the data in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" with xml files:
 

 

 

 

The provision of bulk import functionality/capability of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data from the information systems of the private schools in the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" with xml type files helps to facilitate its operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "mySchool" system, and no protection issue is mentioned by I
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and safe processing of personal data.
  

 

 

 

 

 

C3(g) regarding the ability to search and find in the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data, including the AMKA, private teacher:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 according to the above memorandum of I, the "mySchool" system provides
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ability to search and find all private tutor details,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

including this AKMA, with only the registration of the VAT number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the teacher in the said system (see history of the present).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33
 

according to the user manual of the "mySchool" system, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

using the functionality "Add new employees for private schools"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is allowed to search for a teacher based on his tax identification number. the above manual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is written that "(...) In your case the Educationist already has the PS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool", the site supports its components and you have the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibility to recommend the unit to him (…) In case the Educator
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"mySchool" does not exist, then fill in its details and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prefix the unit let (…)'. The details of the teacher, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

upper handbook, include in terms of the basic elements the surname, the first name, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

father's name, mother's name, date of birth, VAT number, AMKA,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the gender and in terms of the official data the status of employee, the relationship
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work, the hours of compulsory teaching hours at the institution and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the specialty.
 

 

Furthermore, according to the answer of the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the Authority, based on the role assigned to him, the director of the school unit
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has access to the data of teachers serving in the school unit
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(and only in relation to the current service). However, it appears that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least, when using the above functionality, it can have access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in data of teachers of the other school units. therefore must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

examine whether, through the above search facility, it can and is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary to have access to the data of teachers of other schools
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

units.
 

Recommendation 6: Following these, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Research - Diophantos must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to clarify, if the role of the director of the school unit has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access to the data of the teachers of other school units. e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

affirmative case, it must be clarified why this is necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and to inform the Authority about the possibility of restricting access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only in the data of the teachers of the relevant school unit.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(h) in relation to recommendation 6b of Decision 139/2014 of the Authority:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the above note of I is mentioned, in relation to its 6b recommendation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision 139/2014, according to which the Ministry of Health must "(...) b) To
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

care is taken to include the possibility of creating individual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accounts of single users to be assigned by properly authorized persons
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34
 

teachers of each school unit and employees of each administrative department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

structure such as address or regional address, in order to avoid any common
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of my unique account attributed to the college director
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unit or the administrative structure to carry out all the tasks that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the side of the "mySchool" (…) service is required, that it is known throughout
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the educational community that "mySchool" is used by at least
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

three employees of each Education Directorate or each Regional Directorate,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except for the responsible Director. The result is that all of the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user ID and password may be shared.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The above claim of I regarding the use of the manager's account
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by other employees of the above education departments is not documented with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific elements.
 

 

 according to the response of ITYE-Diofantos to the Authority, in the school ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

units, an individual access account is assigned to the manager of each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unit and it is possible to assign an individual access account to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible teachers of departments, as they are designated by its director
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of each school unit. Also, an individual access account is attributed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regional Directors of Education, as well as to the Directors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Primary and Secondary Education Directorate. The above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accounts have the access rights derived from the corresponding one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

role they belong to.
  

 

 

 

From the above and from all the data provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it appears that in the "mySchool" system there is no possibility of rendering individual results
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access accounts to employees of the above education departments
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(besides managers).
 

 

 

Recommendation 7th: Following these, the Ministry of Health and the ITU-Diofantos must,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to recommendation 6b of Decision 139/2014 of the Authority, clarify a) whether
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the ability to assign individual access accounts to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

additional employees of the above education departments and b) in the affirmative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case why this possibility has not been implemented.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(i) regarding the connection of the "mySchool" system to the database
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the National Census:
 

 

 

 

35
 

in his above memo, I states that the interconnection of the base
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data from the "mySchool" system based on the National Census (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

point B of the history of the present) creates questions regarding her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security and protection of personal data.
  

 

 

 

 

 

First of all, it is pointed out that the interface of the "mySchool" system with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the central database of the OP ED of the National Census is foreseen
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in no. KYA 1493 (Government Gazette B 298 12-02-2016). Regardless, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it turns out that there are risks to the protection of personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data due to the connection with the database of the National Census,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above claim of I is not substantiated..
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7j) regarding the database and encryption codes:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I, in his above note, states that he was informed that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only one person has database and encryption passwords.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The above
 

 

 

irrefutably.
 

I's claim is not substantiated and presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C3(k) regarding the preparation of an impact assessment study:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding I's proposal that the Authority request the Ministry of Health to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conduct an impact assessment on
 

 

 

 

 

data protection
 

 

 

it is pointed out that the obligation to carry out an impact assessment in a system that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

already in operation is documented by the controller based on Article 35
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1, 2 and 4 of the GDPR. therefore, the Ministry of Health must examine the compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of with the above article.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

 

The beginning:
 

 

 

1. Rejects I's complaint for the reasons detailed in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this decision.
 

 

 

2. Considers that:
 

 

 

36
 

A. It is legal to enter only the data in the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of private school teachers deemed necessary for the purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the exercise of the hierarchical and graded supervision of the Ministry of Health, such as these
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

described above, with access to them only by users
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to herein (see s. 13A).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B. It is legal to register their data in the "mySchool" system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of students/parents-guardians of private schools, the collection and observance of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are specifically provided for by the current legislative regime or are necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the exercise of supervisory powers of the relevant services of the Ministry of Health,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as these are described above, with access to them only from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the users referred to herein (see section 13B).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. The HYPETH, as controller and ITYE-Diofantos, as executor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, they must also apply the recommendations mentioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in point 13C of the rationale of this decision and to inform her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority within three months of its notification by submitting detailed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implementation schedule of these recommendations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

The secretary
 

 

 

 

 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

37
 

 

 

 

 

