  Wednesday, June 19, 2019 2: Press releases Announcement – “Consumer in focus” summer academy on September 9, 2019 in Kiel As every year, the data protection summer academy will take place in Kiel in late summer – again as part of the Digital Week Kiel. The topic:
"Focus on consumers - challenges and solutions of consumer data protection". Companies have been focusing on consumers for a long time, for example in order to offer them suitable products and services. Comprehensive tracking and analysis of user behavior on the Internet lead to detailed consumer profiles. Such profiles serve as a basis for targeted advertising and for categorizing people. Providers can also use these profiles to change prices for individuals or groups of people or to make decisions about contract terms. Those who want to exercise their rights to information, correction, deletion or data portability vis-à-vis the providers often encounter difficulties because the implementation is incomplete or there is no reaction at all. In the digital world in particular, there are large overlaps between consumer protection and data protection issues. Fairness is necessary in dealing with consumers as well as in the processing of their personal data. How can this be designed? One solution is to focus on consumers and to take their needs and rights seriously, as required by data protection. "Consumer in focus" then aims less at purchasing power and market share than at treating everyone fairly in the sense of trustworthy business relationships. This includes improved transparency and data processing that is understandable and comprehensible from the consumer's point of view, with real options for users to choose and intervene. Consumer and data protection advocates are concerned about any manipulation of people, for example as recently demonstrated with studies on "dark patterns". The basis of any processing - as required by the General Data Protection Regulation - is legality and compliance with data protection principles. Data protection “by design” (built-in data protection) and data protection “by default” (data protection-friendly default settings as a starting point) must become a matter of course. At the summer academy, experts from consumer protection and data protection, from civil society and from practice will debate current developments in consumer data protection. The discussion will focus on the consumer model, taking responsibility, practical experience, fair business models and new technical, organizational and legal approaches. As usual, numerous information exchanges will take place in the afternoon, in which various current topics in data protection will be presented. Information on the program and online registration can be found at https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/sommerakademie/2019/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: dsa, news, press releases, consumersArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure