Additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
the parliamentary amendment to the draft law n° 7643 on open data and the
reuse of public sector information and relating to the draft Grand Ducal regulation
laying down objective, transparent and verifiable criteria for calculating the amount
total royalties for the supply and authorizations for the reuse of documents
held by public sector bodies and public enterprises.
 

Deliberation n° 28/AV23/2021 of August 6, 2021

 

 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter the
“General Data Protection Regulation” or the “GDPR”), to which Article 7 refers
of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating to
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing”.
 
By letter dated July 1, 2021, Minister of Communications and Media
invited the National Commission to decide on the parliamentary amendment to the bill
No. 7643 on Open Data and the Reuse of Public Sector Information (hereafter
the “draft law”), adopted by the Commission for Digitization, Media and
Communications from the Chamber of Deputies during its meeting of June 18, 2021.
 
The single amendment aims to introduce a paragraph 5 in article 4 of the draft law providing for the
implementation of a single portal bringing together all the documents made available to
for the purpose of reuse in order to respond to a formal opposition from the Council of State. the
commentary to the amendment further explains that in addition to the "documents available for
reuse", must also appear on the portal "the possible conditions whose
standard licenses as well as any remuneration for this reuse”.
 
The commentary to the amendment goes on to state that “[i]n respect to other
formal objections issued by the Council of State in its opinion of June 1, 2020 regarding
articles 4, 7 and 12, the Commission for Digitization, Media and Communications has decided
to follow the proposals of the High Corporation.
 

Additional opinion of the National Commission on the amendment

parliamentarian to bill n° 7643 on open data and reuse
information from the public sector and relating to the draft Grand Ducal regulation
laying down objective, transparent and verifiable criteria for calculating the

 

total amount of royalties.

1

1/2

 

 

The Council of State further considered that Article 13, paragraph 2, of the bill does not require
of transposition insofar as it relates specifically to implementing acts which fall under
the competence of the European Commission.
 
The Commission for Digitalisation, Media and Communications has decided to follow the opinion
Council of State on this point and has therefore deleted paragraph 2 in question.

 

After analyzing the amended Article 13, the Commission nevertheless noted that following this
modification, it is also necessary to adapt the reference to paragraphs "2, 3 and 4" provided for in
Article 13, paragraph 1, point 1°, to reflect the new numbering of the paragraphs
subsequent ones, namely "2 and 3". »
 
The National Commission recalls that in any event, the rules applicable to
data protection, and in particular the principles provided for in Article 5 of the GDPR, must be
respected in the context of the operation of the single portal.
 
The parliamentary amendment does not raise any other particular issue from the point of view of the
data protection, and refers for the remainder to its opinion of January 20, 2021.
 
 
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on August 6, 2021.
 
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 

Tine A. Larsen
   President

 

Thierry Lallemang
   Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
 Commissioner

Additional opinion of the National Commission on the amendment

parliamentarian to bill n° 7643 on open data and reuse
information from the public sector and relating to the draft Grand Ducal regulation
laying down objective, transparent and verifiable criteria for calculating the

 

total amount of royalties.

2

2/2

 

 

