1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00275/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 12, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, it was
directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the
claimed), in which it states that the operator sends your invoices with your data
personal to your neighbor's home. On the one hand, they appear on the letterhead of the letter
the latter's data (full name and address), but the invoice corresponds to the
name, ID, address, etc., of the claimant.

With the written claim, provide a copy of the letter sent by the claimed party.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

This Agency transferred this claim to the respondent by means
electronic, granting a period of one month for its response and it is recorded as
date of acceptance by him on May 20, 2019. After this period has elapsed, no
responded to the request made by this body.

For this reason, this claim is admitted for processing in
regarding the security measures adopted, and without the entity having given
response to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

THIRD: On September 26, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
arguments by means of a document dated October 11, 2019, it formulated in summary the
following allegations; “The claimant affirms in her complaint that Vodafone sends its
invoices to the address of your neighbor, appearing on the letterhead of the letter the data of your
neighbor, but in the invoice the data of her.

The AEPD includes in the Start Agreement that my client has not answered
to the request for information that was notified.

Vodafone, first of all, wants to state that after receiving the request
of information E/5008/2019, Vodafone analyzed the claim and began the procedures
necessary to solve the problem that had been brought to our attention.

It was verified that, indeed, in the claimant's contract, the address that she
had consigned was already his correct, with the floor 3ºC, but indeed
We verified that under the same client ID there was a card that contains both the
data of the complainant as well as those of her neighbor.

From this we deduce that there has been a crossing of data data that the data of your
neighbor do not appear in any documentary support related to the claimant. In
concrete, it is possible that the facts have had for some problem in the migration
data contained in one system to a different system.

  In this sense, it is relevant to highlight the repeal of article 130 of the Law
30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and
of the Common Administrative Procedure. Its replacement by article 28.1 of the Law
40/2015 of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector eliminates the mention of
the "simple non-observance" making the rule "nullum poena sine culpa" prevail.
The foregoing comes only to highlight the lack of room for the
responsibility without fault, principle that governs or must govern in the administrative field
sanctioning, because to the extent that it is a manifestation of "ius puniendi" of the State,
It is inadmissible in our legal system a liability regime
no fault
In this sense, it indicates Judgment of the Constitutional Court number 219/1988, and this
for being inadmissible a system of strict liability or without fault as
it also comes to point out Judgment 246/1991. I cannot be penalized
represented for infraction of article 6.1. of the RGPD, without reference to the
subjective element of the type, not proving fraud, guilt, or negligence.
Additionally, taking into account the special nature of penalizing law
that determines the impossibility of imposing sanctions without taking into account the will
of the acting subject or the factors that may have determined the breach of a
legal obligation, this part maintains the inadmissibility of the imposition of sanctions
some.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

Thus, the Supreme Court in Judgment of December 21, 1998 (RJ1998/10226)
(Recourse of Appeal 9074/1991), January 27, 1996 (RJ 1996\926) (Recourse of
Appeal 640/1992) and January 20, 1997 (RJ 1997\257) (Appeal
2689/1992)". The Supreme Court also points out in a Judgment of July 20,
1990, Ar. 6163,
Well, as can be seen, in the behavior described there is no
intentionality, neither by way of intent, nor by way of guilt. Therefore, do not
If there is any guilt, it is totally inadmissible to impose a sanction
any to my client, as long as one of the essential requirements of the
Sanctioning Administrative Law.
For all these reasons, neither represented understands that what is appropriate is for the AEPD to agree on the
dismissal of this file and the file of the proceedings since the
facts have occurred without any intention on the part of my client and
It seems that due to some kind of error. Subsidiarily and in the event that
Despite the explanations provided above, the Agency understood that my
represented is deserving of a sanction for the commission of an infringement of art.
6.1. of the RGPD, the amount of said sanction must be moderate, imposing in its
minimum amount, taking into account the following circumstances set out in art.
83.2 of the GDPR:
It is requested, therefore, to agree: The dismissal of the file, with the consequent
record of proceedings. Subsidiarily and in the event that despite the
explanations previously provided, the Agency understands that my client is
deserving of a sanction for the commission of an infraction of article 6.1 of the
RGPD, the amount of said sanction must be moderated, imposing its amount
minimal”.
FIFTH: On October 28, 2019, the practice period for
evidence, remembering: a).- to consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated that are part of file E/05008/2019 and b).- consider reproduced
evidentiary effects, the allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00275/2019,
presented by the accused entity.
SIXTH: Dated November 29, 2019, issued and notified on December 3
of the same year to Vodafone the Resolution Proposal, for presumed infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, proposing a
€50,000 fine.

Vodafone presented arguments to the Resolution Proposal, stating

which is reiterated in the allegations already made to the Home Agreement.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information

and documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

From the information and documentation provided by the parties in this procedure,
prove the following facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

1º On March 12, 2019, the claimant files a claim before
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, stating that the operator
send your invoices with your personal data to your neighbor's address. By a
part, the data of the latter appear on the letterhead of the letter (full name and
address), but the invoice corresponds to the name, DNI, address, etc., of the
claimant.
2º The AEPD transferred the claim, stating as the date of
acceptance on May 20, 2019, and without the entity having responded to
the AEPD.

3º Dated on October 11, 2019, the entity claimed in the period of
allegations, states that the facts are the result of a specific error, that in the
Currently, this error has been corrected and the data from the
neighbor of the claimant. Provide screenshot with corrected data.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

Yo

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, which states that:

"1. The personal data will be:
 (…)
  f) Treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational
     

The infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, for which the
entity VODAFONE, is typified in article 83 of the aforementioned legal text
that, under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative”, says:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

a)

  The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

         The documentation in the file shows that the defendant violated
the principle of confidentiality.

         It is important to note that the claimant has provided a copy of the letterhead of
the letter in which the details of your neighbor appear (full name and address), but
the invoice corresponds to the name, DNI, address, etc., of the claimant.

Therefore, there is no doubt, given the regulation that violates the duty of secrecy of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD. It does not comply with security measures that give rise to
breach of confidentiality article 5 LOPDGDD.
  

IV

In order to determine the administrative fine that should be imposed in the matter that
We are dealing with it is mandatory to abide by the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the
RGPD, provisions that establish:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of
data.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to determine the amount of the
fine to be imposed on the defendant as responsible for an offense classified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it is estimated that the following factors concur:

-

  Only two people have been affected by the conduct of the defendant.

  The damage caused to those affected by breach of the confidentiality of their data

-
cannot be considered significant.

-

  The lack of diligence shown by the respondent can be classified as significant.

  There is an obvious link between the processing of personal data and

-
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

the activity carried out by the respondent.

-

  The defendant is considered a large company.

In order to set the amount of the penalty to be imposed in this case,
considers that it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD:

-

Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatments
of personal data, (section b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD allows to set a penalty of 50,000 (fifty thousand euros), considered as
“very serious”, for prescription purposes, in 72.1. a) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €50,000.00 (fifty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

