

Bonn/Berlin, June 29, 2020


Press Release 16/2020


  Consultation procedure for anonymization successful
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) publishes the results of its consultation process on the anonymization of personal data. The most important finding: the anonymization of personal data is basically possible with an appropriate legal basis - also in the telecommunications sector. An obligation for immediate deletion can be fulfilled by anonymization, but a stricter standard must be applied here.

BfDI Professor Kelber is pleased about the lively participation in the consultation process: We have received many statements from business and science, from authorities and civil society. The different views reflect the complexity of the topic. After evaluating all the contributions, we are now publishing our position paper to ensure more legal certainty for the bodies I supervise. I would like to thank everyone who took part in our first consultation process.
The BfDI had seen the need for a positioning, since anonymization is only rudimentarily regulated, despite its great practical importance. The GDPR only contains the note that its regulations do not apply to anonymous information.
For many research projects and business models, the analysis of abstract data sets is sufficient, even if the personal reference has been removed. Anonymization can be seen as a means of enabling data to be processed in the first place in individual cases. Observing the principles of data protection law and, in particular, ensuring a level of protection appropriate to the risk are as important as they are self-evident.

The position paper and the comments received on the consultation process can be found here:
Anonymization - A location determination between the GDPR and the TKG




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











