DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998  

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY  PENALTY  NOTICE 

To:  Pinnacle Life Limited 

 

 

 

Of:  Suite 207 Atlas House, Caxton Close, Wigan, Lancashire, England, WN3 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

6XU 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
issue Pinnacle Life Limited (“PLL”) with a monetary penalty under 
section 55A of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA 1998”). The penalty 
is in relation to a serious contravention of regulations 21 and 24 of the 
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 
(“PECR”). 

   
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PLL, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
 
Registration Number: 11896017) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have instigated the use of a public electronic communications 
 
service for the purpose of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of 
direct marketing contrary to regulation 21 of PECR. 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
Regulation 21 applies to the making of unsolicited calls for direct 
4. 
 
 
 
marketing purposes. It means that if a company wants to make calls 
 
promoting a product or service to an individual who has a telephone 
number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 
 
do not object to receiving such calls from it. 
 
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 
 

   
 

 
 

   

5. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“(1) A person shall neither use, nor instigate the use of, a public 
 
 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making 
 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 
 
  

      

 

 

(a) 
 

 
(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 
the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously 
 
 
notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 
 
be made on that line; or 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the called 
 
line is one listed in the register kept under regulation 26.” 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

 
 
of paragraph (1). 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 
(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 
 
 
where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
 
register for less than 28 days preceding that on which the call is 
 
made. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

   
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
   
 

(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line of 
 
his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 
a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls 
 
 
being made on that line by that caller, such calls may be made by 
 
 
that caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number allocated 
 
to that line is listed in the said register. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
        

 

 
7. 
 

 

 

(5) Where a subscriber has given a caller notification pursuant to 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at 
any time, and 
 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not 
 
 
make such calls on that line.” 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 24 of PECR provides: 
 
“(1)  Where a public electronic communications service is used for the 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

transmission of a communication for direct marketing purposes 
 
the person using, or instigating the use of, the service shall 
ensure that the following information is provided with that 
 
communication – 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

… 
 

(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
in relation to a communication to which regulation 21 
 
[or 21A] (telephone calls) applies, the particulars 
 
mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) and, if the recipient of 
 
 
the call so requests, those mentioned in paragraph 
 
(2)(b). 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
(2) The particulars referred to in paragraph (1) are – 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 
 

 
the name of the person; 
 
 
either the address of the person or a telephone 
 
number on which he can be reached free of charge.” 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(a) 
  
(b) 

 

8. 
 

9. 
 

 
10. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
   

 
Under regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
 
 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
 
direct marketing purposes on those lines. The TPS is a limited company 
 
which operates the register on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses 
 
 
who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to 
 
   
the TPS for a fee and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on 
 
that register. 
 
 
Section 122(5) of the DPA18 defines direct marketing as “the 
 
communication (by whatever means) of advertising material or 
 
 
marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
 
PECR & Schedule 19 paragraphs 430 & 432(6) DPA18). 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
12.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
PECR, as variously amended) states: 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
“(1) The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

   

 

 

 

 
  
the Commissioner is satisfied that – 

 
 

 
 

   

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

   

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 
 
Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 
 
 

 

 

 
(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 
 
   
(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(a) 
 

(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that 
the contravention would occur, but 
 
 
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 
 
contravention. 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

13.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 
 
published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 
 
Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 
 
that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 
  
not exceed £500,000. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
14.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 

 
 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
rights. 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
        

Background to the case 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

 
16.  PLL is a UK based insurance broker which was incorporated on 21 
 
March 2019 and registered at Companies House under registered 
number 11896017. PLL has a registration with the Commissioner under 
 
 
reference ZA520055. 
  
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

17.  PLL came to the Commissioner's attention following a review of TPS 
 
complaints from December 2021 where the TPS had been unable to 
 
identify the organisation making the call. There was a complaint 
regarding a call from "Pinnacle Insurance" which said: 
 
 
“We received an unsolicited marketing call saying that they can get us 
 
a better deal on life insurance. It was distressing to receive the call and 
 
 
be called by name. This company should not have my details as I have 
 
been registered with the TPS for over 10 years.” 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18.  On 25 January 2022, the Commissioner issued a third party 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 

 

 

, 
information notice to a communications service provider, 
 
 
in relation to the telephone number that had been complained about. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19.  On 14 February 2022, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

responded to the third party 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

information notice confirming that PLL was the subscriber. 
 
also provided the Commissioner with a list of telephone numbers that 
were allocated to PLL at the time of the third party information notice, 
 
which were searched on the Commissioner's and the TPS' complaints 
 
 
databases. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20.  Between 18 February 2021 and 8 February 2022, the Commissioner 
 
had received 17 complaints, eight of the complainants indicated that 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
they were TPS registered at the time of the call. Between 7 May 2021 
  
and 17 December 2021, the TPS had received four complaints. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
21.  The complaints data revealed that the calls were primarily made to 
 
offer a 'free review' of existing insurance policies. Four complaints 
 
raised concerns about inaccurate data, such as an old address. One 
 
complainant stated that they continued to be contacted despite asking 
 
to be removed from their marketing list. This complaint read as 
follows: 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 
“Asked for me by name and incorrect address. Said did I have life 
insurance [sic]. I said yes but [that] I was not interested and [asked 
 
them] to remove me from their marketing list at which point he 
 
 
became abusive and called me stupid. I hung up but the same number 
 
called me 30 minutes later so I ignored it”. 
 

 
   

   
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
22.  The Commissioner has been provided with recordings of the calls, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
which PLL do not dispute making. For example, on 3 June 2021, PLL 
 
contacted a complainant, who had been registered with the TPS since 
 
March 2021, stating to be from "your validation department". The 
 
complainant states that they do not have life insurance with the caller 
 
and the recording ends. On 17 June 2021, the complainant receives 
 
another call and again, the caller does not introduce themselves 
 
 
satisfactorily stating to be "from the assessment department for your 
   
life cover". On this occasion, the complainant hangs up. There are a 
 
further three attempts to contact the same complainant on 23, 24 and 
 
25 June 2021 but the calls do not connect. On 28 June 2021, the 
 
 
complainant is contacted again to which the complainant informs the 
caller their number is registered with the TPS and that they should not 
 
be calling. In a matter of hours, the complainant is called again despite 
 
explicitly referencing being registered with the TPS on a previous call. 

 
 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
The recording captures the caller stating "[…] unless you conduct an 
assessment you're going to continue being called [sic]". The call 
 
 
records show that further calls were made to the complainant on 29 
 
June 2021, 7 July 2021, and 26 July 2021, showing a repeated pattern 
  
of contacting a TPS registered individual. 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
23.  Another example of a call to a TPS registered number was made on 8 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
June 2021: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

 
 

  
"Complainant: Sorry I’m not interested thank you 
 
Caller: May I ask why you’re not interested in your policy sir? 
  
Complainant: Don’t call me again thank you bye 
 
Caller: No problem I will call you all the time then…" 
 
 
 
Further attempts were made to call this individual on 11 June, 14 June, 
 
twice on 16 June and on 23 June 2021. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
24.  Another example of a call to a TPS registered number was made on 2 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
July 2021: 
 
"Caller: But you have been so rude you didn’t tell me at least your real 
  
name 
 
Complainant: Remove the number 
 
Caller: Yes, I’m saying you didn’t tell me Mrs who am I speaking to? 
Complainant: I’m not going to tell you my name because you don’t 
need my number just remove my number now 
 
Caller: You want me to call you up later? 
 
Complainant: No I want you to remove my number or else I’m going to 
report you to the ICO 
 
Caller: Calm down I’m just joking… I’m just joking" 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

The individual stated that they did not consent to receive this call and 
that it made them feel "annoyed and/or anxious" particularly because 
 
of their concern "that they continue to hold my number". 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25.  Another complainant was contacted where the caller claimed to be 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

from "the life assessment and reviews team" calling about an existing 
life insurance policy on behalf of their "provider". The complainant asks 
 
multiple times for the name of the provider but the caller refuses to 
 
provide this stating that they "do not have [the] provider's name… due 
 
to the fact that [the caller] works with the whole of the market and 
because of [the] GDPR that is in place [the complainant is] not allowed 
 
to have the provider's details due to the fact that [the complainant] as 
 
a customer could chop and change [their] policy whenever [they] like". 
 
 
The caller further stated, "a provider doesn't have to give accurate 
 
information due to the fact that it is a review and update of the 
 
policy…". The complainant requested to speak with the manager and 
 
was put through to another individual who reiterated the same 
 
response. The complainant informed the caller that they held an old 
 
address for him. Further, the caller attempted to mislead the 
 
complainant by suggesting that the call is not a marketing call. 
  
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26.  The extract of the complaint at paragraph 21 was in relation to a call 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   
 

provided the Commissioner with the call 
 
 

received from a telephone number allocated to PLL on 8 December 
   
 
2021 at 14:30. 
 
 
records for PLL's account for the month of December 2021, which 
 
showed that this complainant was contacted twice on 8 December 2021 
 
 
and once on 10 December 2021. Although the last two calls do not 
appear to have been answered, the records show that the individual's 
 
telephone number was not removed from the marketing list as 
 
  
requested and despite this, PLL still attempted to contact them. 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
27.  Accordingly, on 4 April 2022, the Commissioner sent an initial enquiry 
 

   

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

email to PLL enclosing a copy of the complaints that had been received. 
 
The Commissioner's email asked about the data sources PLL used to 
 
promote their business, how PLL ensures individuals have agreed to 
 
receive their calls, whether PLL conducts TPS screening prior to making 
 
 
calls and whether PLL operates an internal suppression list. The 
 
Commissioner also asked PLL to provide evidence that the TPS 
 
complainants had not objected to receive their calls and for an 
 
explanation for the complaints. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

28.  On 19 April 2022, PLL responded to the Commissioner stating that they 
 
purchase the data "from a data supplier which is all opt in GDPR data" 
 
and that at the time of these calls, they were using a third party to 
 
make calls on their behalf who also used "opt in GDPR data". PLL also 
 
stated that they previously had a relationship with a company called 
" 
 

   
but that they no longer work them with. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

29.  On 26 April 2022, the Commissioner asked PLL further questions in 
 
order to understand their relationship with third party organisations. 
 
These questions asked for the identity of the data supplier, where the 
 
complainants' data came from, the identity of the third party used to 
 
make calls on behalf of PLL and whether this relationship is still active, 
 
how the third party sourced the data, whether PLL makes marketing 
calls themselves in addition to using the third party, and for an 
 
. As PLL's 
explanation of PLL's previous relationship with 
 
 
 
responses did not fully address all of the Commissioner's questions, the 
 
Commissioner asked PLL again to provide evidence that each 
 
complainant did not object to PLL contacting them on that line, and 
whether PLL or the third party used to make calls on their behalf, 
 
screens the data against the TPS register prior to making unsolicited 
 
marketing calls. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 
30.  On 6 May 2022, PLL responded to the Commissioner stating that they 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. PLL 
 
 
 
purchased the data from 
 
stated they sometimes contacted individuals using the data from 

 
, but that this was not done regularly as PLL primarily relied on 
 
 
 

leads supplied by other third party lead generators which made calls on 
 
PLL's behalf. PLL identified the third party company used to make calls 
 
on their behalf was 
 

,  based in  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. PLL stated that 
 

 

calls  and had a  sister  company,  
generate leads in regard to UK clients reviewing their current 
 
protection plans". PLL stated that they  stopped working with  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 sourced its  own  data  to  make  the  
,  which  was  used by  PLL  "to  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 when  they  became  aware  that "operations  weren't 
 
 

done correctly". PLL could not provide evidence that the individuals did 
not object to their calls, stating that this is because "[they] have […] 
not spoke (sic) to these clients no dialled them. They were contacted 
by a third party source impersonating our company name […]. We 
 
were a complete victim of this". Further, PLL stated that they are now a 
 
 
closed and dormant company. 
  
 
In the same email on 6 May 2022, PLL also provided the Commissioner 
 
with a copy of a due diligence document which had been completed for 
 
 on  18  September  2020.  Key  sections  of  the  document,  such  

   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as how customers opt in, were not completed. 
  

 

 

 

 

31. 
 

 

 

 

   
 

 
32.  On 6 May 2022, the Commissioner asked PLL to provide evidence that 

 
they had ceased trading and to provide more information to clarify 
 
 
what exactly had happened with 
 
 

 
 
. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33.  Also on 6 May 2022, as PLL stated that it had not made any of the calls 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

being complained of, the Commissioner sent a further third party 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

11 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
requesting a copy of PLL's call 
 

information notice to 
 
 
records for the period of 5 May 2021 to 5 May 2022. 
  
 

 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34.  On 10 May 2022, PLL responded to the Commissioner's further queries 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

explaining that it had stopped trading on 20 December 2021 and 
provided a copy of a letter sent by PLL dated 9 November 2021. The 
 
 
and gave 30 
letter was addressed to 
 
 
 
days' notice to terminate their Appointed Representative relationship. 
 
 
However, PLL remains active on Companies House and an unaudited 
financial statement was filed for the company in October 2022. 
  
 
In the same email on 10 May 2022, PLL stated, in response to the 
 
, that they 
Commissioner's question regarding the activity of 
 
 
 
was not operating correctly because "UK 
became aware that 
 
 
clients were contacting [PLL] complaining they had received a call from 
us. We constantly advised them it was not us and we would not contact 
 
them. We approached the introducer as this was becoming more and 
more apparent on a daily basis and requested a number of call records; 
however the introducer/third party becoming (sic) very dubious and 
ceased any communication with us". 
  
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35. 
 

36.  PLL stated that they reported this issue to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

and also 
 
 

 

 

   

provided the Commissioner with a screenshot of an email that PLL had 
 
 
received from the Serious Fraud Office to say that it would not be 
 
 
investigating the matter. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

37.  Although the director of PLL stated that the company was no longer 
 

 
account for PLL showed that reviews were still 
 
 

trading, the 
 
 
being posted for PLL in April 2022 and May 2022. Two of the 
 
reviews (dated 23 May 2022 and 19 October 2022) indicated that 
Pinnacle Protect is continuing to obtain leads using overseas lead 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
generators that are making misleading claims on the calls. The 
 
Commissioner made enquiries with 
PLL's account was still active. 
  
 

 
to find out whether 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38.  On 20 May 2022, 
 

 

 

being used to make and receive calls. 
  

 

 

 

 

confirmed that PLL's account was still 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
39.  On 30 May 2022, 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
   

period of 5 May 2021 to 5 May 2022 to the Commissioner. 
  
 

   

 

 

 

 
provided the call records covering the 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

40.  On 7 June 2022, the Commissioner sent a formal investigation letter to 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PLL. The letter outlined the Commissioner's concerns and the 
 
regulations and powers available to the Commissioner. The letter also 
 
requested information including the volume of connected calls made by 
 
PLL over the period of 5 May 2021 and 5 May 2022, the call scripts 
 
 
used, a list of all the third parties used and the contracts in place, as 
 
were 
 
well as an explanation as to why PLL's call accounts and 
 
still active if PLL was no longer trading. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

41.  As PLL had denied making the calls being complained of, the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

complaints were checked against PLL's call records. After removal of 
 
the complaints that did not appear in PLL's call records, there were still 
 
 
10 outstanding complaints. The Commissioner sent PLL a spreadsheet 
that comprised the details of the complaints and the call records for 
 
each call and asked PLL to confirm the data source for each 
 
complainant. The Commissioner also asked PLL to provide evidence 
 
that the TPS registered complainants had not objected to receive their 
 
calls. 
  
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42.  On 22 June 2022, PLL responded to the Commissioner with an email 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consisting of several attachments. At least 13 of these documents were 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 
seemingly created by 
were call recordings. The other attachments included: an order form 
 
 
between 
 

rather than PLL. 21 of the documents 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 dated 30  August 2019; an  introducer  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

dated 2 May 2020; a PLL fact find 
 
 
 
   

agreement between PLL and 
 
document to be completed when conducting a 'fact find' call with a new 
 
lead; 
PLL and 
 
showing the 
purchasing data; email correspondence from 
 
 
company requesting certain numbers be suppressed; order forms 
 
 
between 
 
 

documents including a call script, an order form between 
 
dated 17 September 2021 and terms and conditions for 
 

 
and PLL dated 4 and 5 March 2020; PLL and 
 
dated 12 
 

call scripts; a contract between PLL and 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

October  2020  and  a  due  diligence  documents  completed for  " 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

dated 18 March 2020; a list of what should 
 
and should not be done on a call that was branded with PLL's logo; an 
   
 
email dated 21 June 2022 from 
 
445,364 connected calls were made between 05 May 2021 and 05 May 
 
 
2022; and a list of telephone numbers used by PLL. 
  
 

which stated that 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the same email dated 22 June 2022, PLL stated they did not have or 
 
use any trading names as their only activity was conducted as an 
 
Appointed Representative  for  
had worked with  several lead generation  firms,  including 

.  However,  PLL  stated they  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 
  

44.  PLL also explained: “On a number of occasions it came to light these 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

firms were impersonating [PLL] rather than introducing themselves as 
 
a lead generator and us as and [sic) insurance brokerage who reviews 
 
 
protection plans.” PLL stated they did not make any marketing calls as 
 
their call handlers relied on hot key leads from introducers. PLL further 
 
stated "we supplied [the introducers] with opt in GDPR data which 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

45. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

, PLL stated: 
 

so we knew they were using correct GDPR 

 
– requesting reputable lead 
   
 
 

[PLL] purchased from 
 
opt in data.” 
 
 
In regard to the relationship between PLL and 
 
“we did marketing through 
 
generation firms to work with us and source us compliant leads in 
 
order to reviewing [sic] UK clients personal protection. One of them 
was 
 
not happy with their calls. We requested call recordings from time to 
 
time to make sure they were conducting compliant calls and found at 
times they were using our name, personating [sic] us and claiming to 
 
be calling from [PLL]. Due to this we terminated our agreement. This 
 
was done as soon as we found out.” 
 
 

 
but [we] soon stopped working with them as we were 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46.  PLL explained their only data source was 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

and that PLL provided 
 
 
to the introducer companies "to show good practice in 
data from 
 
 
 
 
running legitimate legal entities through our dialling system". However, 
 
 
in a subsequent response PLL stated "the data was from 
made the initial calls to clients". 
  
 

who 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

47.  PLL stated that none of the complainants had been transferred to PLL. 
 
However, PLL stated they had “allowed a couple of our introducers to 
 
use our dialler system. This allowed us to have access to their calls to 
 
ensure we could carry out compliance checks to ensure the calls they 
 
were making were compliant and we could make sure the data they 
 
were using was GDPR opt in data as it was loaded onto the dialler 
 
system". 
 
 
In relation to the Commissioner's query about the PLL call account 
being active despite stating the company had ceased trading, PLL 
 
 
explained that the account with 
 
 

was still registered in the 
 

48. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

name of PLL, but they were in the process of notifying all suppliers that 
 
 
PLL was no longer trading. PLL informed the Commissioner that all 
contracts and agreements were going to be renewed in the name of 
 
'Pinnacle Protect Ltd' ("Pinnacle Protect"), which PLL stated they had to 
 
do as when they applied to the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") for 
 
authorisation, the FCA had told them they would need to change their 
 
company name. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

49.  Pinnacle Protect was incorporated on 4 February 2021 and has the 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

same registered office address as PLL. Mr Colin Mark Sobey ("Mr 
 
Sobey") is the sole director of Pinnacle Protect and is also a director of 
 
PLL. 
  
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50.  On 6 July 2022, the Commissioner sent PLL further questions including 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

whether 
 
themselves and data provided to them by PLL, confirmation of how 

made calls using data they had obtained 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

obtained personal data and how they obtained consent for PLL 
 
 

 
to contact the individuals, an explanation of their relationship with 
 
 

, confirmation of which introducers had access to 
 
 
PLL's call account and over what period and what the content of the 
 
445,364 outbound connected calls would be given that they had said 
 
PLL did not conduct any marketing calls. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

51.  The Commissioner also asked PLL to provide screenshots to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

demonstrate how the data was obtained if it was obtained via any 
 
method other than by the call script provided. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

the data used by 
 

52.  The Commissioner also requested PLL provide an explanation of where 
 
was sourced from, how long PLL has worked with 
 
was dated 2 May 2020, 
 
but the due diligence document was dated 20 September 2019. These 
 

, why the agreement between PLL and 
 
 
 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 
same questions were also asked regarding 
the agreement dated 12 October 2020 and a due diligence document 
   
dated 18 March 2020. 
  
 

but in respect of 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

53.  The Commissioner also asked PPL to explain their comment that some 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the calls listed in PPL's call records "did not happen", how  PPL had 
been able to provide call records for several of the calls they say did 
 
not happen, and to clarify which organisation had made the calls if it 
had not been PLL. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54.  The Commissioner's review of the call records provided by 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

indicated that 1,168,829 connected calls had been made over the 
 
contravention period, however, this figure did not match that in the 
 
 
records which 
 
 

provided to PLL. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55.  As a result, on 14 July 2022, the Commissioner had a call with 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to clarify this discrepancy, during which 
 
 

 

 

 

 

explained 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that PLL had asked for connected calls whereas the Commissioner was 
 
sent all outbound connected calls directly from the carrier, which may 
 
include calls to voicemail and/or where individuals had asked for a call 
 
back. 
explained that the carrier records do not include the 
 
 
 
way the calls were dispositioned. 
 
 
  
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56.  As such, the Commissioner asked 
 

for a copy of the same 
 
connected calls document that had been provided to PLL, and this was 
 
provided on 18 July 2022. 
  

   
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

57.  On 19 July 2022, PLL stated that the 445,364 outbound connected calls 
 
and welcome and 

consisted of marketing calls from 
 
retention calls conducted by PLL with their existing clients. PLL also 
 
 
are both lead generation firms. 
confirmed that 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

58. 
 

59. 
 

60. 
 

 

 

, PLL stated they started working together on 20 
 
 
 

 
 
In respect of 
used their own dialling system for calls and 
September 2019 when 
 
 
 
their agreement was updated on 2 May 2020. PLL also stated that 
 
used PLL's dialler account from April/May 2021 until December 2021. 
  
 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

, PLL started conducting due diligence checks 
In respect of 
 
 
 
on them on 18 March 2020, they started working together one month 
 
 
later and their contract was reviewed in October 2020. PLL also stated 
 
that 
used PLL's dialler account from April to May 2021 until 
 
 
November 2021 when they stopped working together. 
  
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PLL informed the Commissioner that they provided both 
 

 
 
with batches of data that was purchased from 
 
 
 

both firms also sourced data themselves. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, and that 
 

61.  PLL provided a copy of two order confirmations from 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

, which was 
 
 
at the time, to explain how they obtained leads. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

trading as 
 
The first order was dated 20 May 2020 and was for 7,000 leads with 
 
the criteria "life insurance with provider. Homeowner and rent private. 
 
Aged 30-34, 35-39, 40-44,45-49, 50-54, 55-59, 60-64". The second 
order was dated 16 September 2021 and was for 5,000 leads with the 
 
sourced 
same criteria. Neither order confirmation outlined how 
 
the data. 
  
 
In relation to evidencing consent, PLL directed the Commissioner to 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy policy and provided the URL as 
 
 
 

 
. No further screenshots or 
 
 

documents were provided to evidence that the leads purchased from 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had proactively not objected to receiving calls from PLL or that 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the leads had been TPS screened. 
 

 

 

 

 

18 

62. 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

63. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 
   

's privacy policy included a list of "Group Companies and 
' whose opt in page 
 
 

Brands", one of which was ' 
 
included a hyperlink to view the partners that may contact individuals. 
 
This hyperlink led to a page consisting of 152 organisations but there 
 
was no option to restrict calls to particular partners and PLL was not 
named on the list. Other "Group Companies and Brands" included 
 

 
but their links to find out 
 
the details of the partners who may contact individuals did not work. 
 
To date, PLL has provided no evidence that they were at any time 
 
named on one or all of 
 
 

 
' and ' 
 
 

's websites. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

's website states it obtained data via telephone calls and online 
 
however, when the Commissioner asked PLL to provide screenshots if 
   
data was obtained other than by phone call using the script provided, 
 
PLL stated "not applicable". This contradicts the order form, which 
 
states that data was generated via 
 
 

 
 

 
 

. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

65.  PLL had stated they also purchased data from 
 
 

Commissioner was provided with a copy of an order form with 
 
 

 
will deliver to the 
 

that stated “ 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. The 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the Partner". The 
 

Partner datasets which have opted-in to receive marketing 
 
communications via the 
 
 

 
" was listed as "phone (telemarketing)". The contract 
 

 
stated that the dataset could only be used for marketing 
communications relating to 
 
of leads was 1,000 and the criteria was "England & Wales only, aged 
 
 
40-70, homeowner, current mortgage provider, has taken [an] 
 
interest-only mortgage between 2005-2012, [and has] opted in to 
 
 
receive a call from 
was obtained by individuals “filling out an online user profile [form], 
 

". The contract also stated that data 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. The volume 
 
 

 

 

19 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
through online behaviour/machine learning software and online surveys 
 
relating to the individual’s personal areas of lifestyle and interest. Data 
 
criteria are collected via behaviour/machine learning tools and via 
 
online surveys in which users answer multiple questions placed on 
behalf of the Partner.” 
 

 
 
    

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
66.  PLL provided a further order form with 

 

 

 

 

 

which 
 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

. The criteria for data was listed as: "full 
 
 
 

 
 
contained the same information as at paragraph 65 but named PLL 
 
instead of 
mainland UK, aged 25-65, has or does not have life insurance, are 
 
interested in a review on their current insurance policy, are interested 
in possibly getting a life insurance, opted in to receive a call from 
[PLL]". 
 
 

 
   

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

67.  PLL provided a third order form from 
 
 

, dated 31 
 
 
January 2020, which requested leads aged 25-60 and information 
 
about their current insurance provider. This order form did not 
explicitly state that the data subjects had opted in to receiving a call 
from PLL, in contrast to the order form mentioned at paragraph 66. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68.  PLL provided the Commissioner with a document that showed how 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

customers opt in to receive a call from PLL through 
 
This showed that individuals were explicitly asked whether they agree 
 
 
to receive a call from PLL to conduct a life insurance review or to 
 
 
provide more information. 
  
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In relation to the calls which PLL said had not occurred, Mr Sobey 
 
stated that "when [he] went through the dialling system at the calls 
 
and times… [he] couldn't locate them". Mr Sobey explained the reason 
 
why PLL had been able to provide call recordings for calls they had not 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 

69. 
 

 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 

 

 

access to their 
 
 

 

 

 
made was because PLL had given 
call account. 
  
 

 

70.  Upon review of the connected call document at paragraph 56 above, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Commissioner noted that more calls made using PLL's account had 
connected than those that had been dispositioned as 'connected'. The 
 
Commissioner surmised that some calls must have been dispositioned 
other than 'connected' which is why it was not included in the 
 
 
connected call records. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

71.  On 4 August 2022, the Commissioner explained this understanding to 
 

 

 

 

 

PLL, which PLL did not challenge. 
  

 

 

 
72.  Also on 4 August 2022, the Commissioner asked PLL further questions 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to clarify how the data was sourced by the third parties and 
had come from. To date, 
where the data used by 
 
 
 
none of the contracts that PLL have provided make reference to TPS 
 
screening, so the Commissioner also asked PLL to confirm whether 
 
they purchased data as being TPS screened. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

73.  On 15 August 2022, PLL stated that 
 

were given 
 
 
data by PLL to make calls, but they also obtained leads themselves, 
 
 
PLL obtained data from 
 
purchased TPS screen data and that PLL had created tabs to keep their 
 
 
dialler records separate from the calls made by 
 
 

, PLL only ever 
 
 

and 
 

 
 

. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

74.  PLL also provided with the Commissioner with a document titled 'data 
 
's logo. The document 

protection law', which was branded with 
 
included a section on how call handlers should respond to queries from 
 
 
data subjects about where their data had been sourced from. Callers 
 
were told to say, "we [sic] got your data from a reputable data supplier 
 

 
   

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
both purchases data and 
 

 
or you have participated to our telephone survey or online survey a few 
months back". This indicates that 
sources leads via marketing survey calls and online. 
 
not obtain notification from individuals that they agreed to receive 
 
 
marketing contact from PLL. 
 
 

's script did 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

75.  On 26 August 2022, the Commissioner asked PLL for specific details 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
   

about some of the documents they had provided. This included a 
 
request for a copy of the 
 
 
an explanation of their relationship with 
 
 
also asked PLL about the volume of data purchased from 
 
 

 
advert used to generate leads and 
 

. The Commissioner 
 
 
 
 

when this was purchased and whether the data was sourced 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

from purely online sources. 
  
 

 

 

76.  On 12 September 2022, PLL responded stating: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

they did not have copies of the 
 
need to request screenshots from 
 

 
  PLL had no relationship with 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

adverts so they would 
 
. 
 
and do not know of the 
 
 

 

 

 

 

company. 
 

  PLL only purchased one batch of data from 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which was bought in March 2020, and that they gave 
 
was having issues with their own dialler 
their dialler because 
 
 
 
 
which was causing connection issues and therefore disrupting the 
 
supply of leads. 
 

access to 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  PLL had conducted due diligence on the data suppliers used by 
 
 
. PLL 
 
 
with approximately 40,000 
 

and on 
 
further stated they had supplied 
 
lines of data. 
 
 

which supplied data to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, 
 

 

 

22 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
77.  On 4 October 2022, the Commissioner asked PLL several final 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
questions including: whether, prior to buying the 
 
advert used by 
obtained a copy of the 
 
 
PLL's other orders were for 
   
 
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

leads, PLL 
 
 

; whether any of 
 

 

leads or if all other leads from 
 

 

 

 

 

were generated via the telephone survey; how many leads PLL 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; and names of the companies that 
 

used to 
passed to 
 
 
purchase data from. The Commissioner also asked PLL for a copy of the 
 
 
 
 
over the period of 5 May 2021 to 5 
calls made by 
 
 
   
May 2022 or until the date they stopped using PLL's data if that was 
 
 
sooner. 
 

   
 
   

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
78.  On 17 October 2022, PLL responded to the Commissioner stating: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

they never had sight of the 
 
generate leads. 
  

 

 

  PLL only submitted one order for 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

advert used by 
 

 

to 
 
 

leads from 
 
 

 

, with 
 
 

 

 
  PLL provided "2-3 batches of data" to 
 
 

all other leads generated via 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

's telephone survey. 
 

 

 

 
 

was not provided). 
  
the only data supplier that they were aware of 
 
 
data was 
 
stating that 
 
the UK". 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, despite the due diligence document 
 
 

obtain data from "various opt in data suppliers in 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(the exact volume 
 

 

 

using to source 
 
 

 

 
 

 

79.  On 12 December 2022, the Commissioner sent PLL a letter stating that 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the investigation had ended and that a decision would be made on 
 
whether formal enforcement action is appropriate. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
80.  PLL provided the Commissioner with copies of the call records for the 
. However, PLL 
 
 

 
campaigns run off their dialler by 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

had stated both organisations had stopped using their dialler at the end 
of 2021, but both sets of records included calls from 2022. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

81.  On 27 January 2023, the Commissioner put this discrepancy to PLL. On 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

3 February 2023, PLL responded: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

“We did work with another firm who were known as DNA contact 
solutions, this firm again was under use of the dialling system, but 
 
because previous firms had campaigns set up they continued to use 
 
them campaigns as the plug ins where [sic] already formed. This firm 
 
always purchased there [sic] own data from 
 
uploaded to the dialler themselves. 
  
 
Again, after a small period of time, we ceased all access of any firms 
 
using our dialling system due to the nature of complaints received. We 
 
 
treat this as a [sic] oversight and feel very stupid we didn’t pick up 
what these 
 
stress how sorry we are for not being able to clamp this immediately. 
 
 

firms were doing immediately and can’t 
 

 
, and 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

We ran checks on all firms ensuring they were ico [sic] regulated and 
fully compliant in line with regulation. We were constantly under the 
 
impression data bought and handled by these third party sources was 
 
all above board and in line with all regulation. The moment we seen 
 
[sic] the ability to be wrong, we did what we could to prevent it.” 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
82.  From PLL's response at paragraph 81 above, it appeared to the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
Commissioner that once a separate call campaign had been set up on 
 
PLL's system for one of its introducers to use, this separate campaign 
 
 
tab was then used by at least one other introducer working on behalf of 
  
PLL. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
83.  The Commissioner has relied on the call records totalling 1,168,829 to 
 

 
establish the contravention volume. All calls with a duration of up to 
 
three seconds were removed in order to try and mitigate against 
unanswered calls being included in the call records. This showed that 
47,998 calls were made to TPS registered telephone numbers where 
 
the call duration was four seconds or more. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84.  The Commissioner is satisfied that a minimum of 47,998 calls were all 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

made for the purposes of direct marketing as defined by section 122(5) 
DPA18. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
85.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
balance of probabilities. 
 

 

 

 

 

   
86.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute a 
 

 
contravention of regulation 21 of PECR by PLL and, if so, whether the 
  
conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied. 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
        
 

The contravention 

  
87.  The Commissioner finds that PLL contravened regulation 21 of PECR. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
88.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

   
 

   
89.  Between 5 May 2021 and 5 May 2022, PLL instigated the use of a 
 
public telecommunications service, for the purposes of making a 
 
minimum of 47,998 unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes to 
 
subscribers where the number allocated to the subscriber in respect of 
 
the called line was a number listed on the register of numbers kept by 
 
the Commissioner in accordance with regulation 26, contrary to 
regulation 21(1)(b) of PECR. This resulted in four complaints being 

 
   
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

made to the TPS and the Commissioner. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of regulation 21 
 

 
that these 47,998 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to 
 
subscribers who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to 
 
receiving the calls, and who for the purposes of regulation 21(4) had 
not notified PLL that they did not object to receiving such calls. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

91.  For such notification to be valid under regulation 21(4), the individual 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   

must have taken a clear and positive action to override their TPS 
 
registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls 
 
from the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s 
 
choice about whether or not they are willing to receive marketing calls. 
 
Therefore, where signing up to use a product or service is conditional 
upon receiving marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate 
 
how this constitutes a clear and positive notification of the individual’s 
 
willingness to receive such calls. 
  
 

 
   

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
92.  The notification must clearly indicate the individual’s willingness to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on 
 
individuals opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it 
  
is clear that this will include telephone calls. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
93.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness 
 
to receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications 
 
will not be valid for the purposes of regulation 21(4) if individuals are 
 
asked to agree to receive marketing calls from “similar organisations”, 
  
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
94.  PLL has not provided any evidence to demonstrate that the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainants had notified PLL that they did not object to receiving their 
 
calls. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

95.  Further, PLL failed, as required by regulation 24 of PECR, to provide the 
 
recipient of the calls with the particulars specified at regulation 24(2) of 
 
PECR. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under section 55A DPA are met. 
 
 
Seriousness of the contravention 
 

 

 

 

     

 

97.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

above was serious. This is because there have been multiple breaches 
 
of regulation 21 by PLL arising from the organisation’s activities 
 
between 5 May 2021 and 5 May 2022, and this led to a minimum of 
 
47,998 unsolicited direct marketing calls being made to subscribers 
 
who were registered with the TPS and who had not notified PLL that 
 
they were willing to receive such calls, and four complaints being made 
 
 
as a result. 
  
 

   
 
 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98.  Complainants reported that the calls they received by PLL or that were 
 
made on behalf of PLL made them feel annoyed and/or anxious. Some 
 
of the recorded calls showed that the callers were aggressive, rude and 
persistent with the individuals. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
99.  The Commissioner is also satisfied that the contravention was serious 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
due to the frequency of the calls. Complainants reported receiving 
multiple calls over a short period of time, despite repeated opt-out 
  
requests, and this is evidenced in the call recordings. 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

100.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

section 55A (1) DPA is met. 
  
 
Deliberate or negligent contraventions 
 
 

 

 

     

101.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, this means that 
PLL's actions which constituted that contravention were deliberate 
 
actions (even if PLL did not actually intend thereby to contravene 
 
 
PECR). 
 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

102.  The Commissioner does not consider that PLL deliberately set out to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contravene PECR in this instance. 
  
 

 

 

 
 

103.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the contravention 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identified above was negligent. This consideration comprises two 
 
 
elements: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
104.  Firstly, he has considered whether PLL knew or ought reasonably to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   

have known that there was a risk that this contravention would occur. 
 
He is satisfied that this condition is met, given that PLL relies on live 
 
marketing calls as their business model and so it should reasonably 
 
have sought to familiarise itself with the relevant legislation. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
105.  The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance for companies 
 
carrying out marketing explaining their legal requirements under PECR. 
 
This guidance explains the circumstances under which organisations 
 
are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, by email, by 
 
 
post or by fax. Specifically, it states that live calls must not be made to 
 
any subscriber registered with the TPS, unless the subscriber has 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

specifically notified the company that they do not object to receiving 
such calls. In case organisations remain unclear on their obligations, 
 
the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO communications about 
previous enforcement action where businesses have not complied with 
 
 
PECR are also readily available. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

106.  It is therefore reasonable to suppose that PLL should have been aware 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its responsibilities in this area. 
 
 

 

 

 

107.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether PLL 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the contravention. Again, he 
 
is satisfied that this condition is met. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

108.  The Commissioner’s direct marketing guidance makes clear that 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

 
 

organisations acquiring marketing lists from a third party must 
undertake rigorous checks to satisfy themselves that the personal data 
 
was obtained fairly and lawfully, that their details would be passed 
 
along for direct marketing to the specifically named organisation in the 
 
 
case of live calls, and that they have the necessary notifications for the 
 
 
purposes of regulation 21(4). It is not acceptable to rely on assurances 
 
given by third party suppliers without undertaking proper due 
 
diligence. Although PLL provided evidence of some due diligence had 
been carried out, this was inadequate as the gaps in the information 
 
 
provided by the lead providers were not followed up on. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
109.  Reasonable steps in these circumstances may also have included 
 

recording how individuals were opted in, obtaining the scripts to be 
 
used to generate leads by third parties and ensuring TPS screening was 
 
in place for the calls being made using PLL's account on their behalf. 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
110.  Given the volume of calls, it is clear that PLL failed to take those 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
reasonable steps. 
 
 

 

111.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

55A (1) DPA is met. 
 
 

 

 

 
The Commissioner’s decision to issue a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

112.  The Commissioner has taken into account the following aggravating 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
features of this case: 
 
 
  The predatory nature of the calls instigated by PLL. 
 
 
 
  The call recordings demonstrate that the calls were misleading in 
 

 
 
nature, for instance by claiming to have an individual's existing 
 
 
policy documents to hand or calling from a fictitious life insurance 
  
review department. 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  Callers were persistent, aggressive, rude at times and blatantly 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
ignored requests from individuals not to be contacted. 
 

  
  There is at least one seeming attempt to capitalise on the pandemic. 
 
 
  PLL has allowed a second overseas organisation to use its caller 
 
 

 
account to make outbound calls, even after finding issues with the 
  
calls made by the first organisation. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
reviews for Pinnacle Protect indicate PLL has continued to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
instigate unsolicited marketing calls as a new legal entity, 
  
suggesting a pattern of non-compliance by Mr Sobey. 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

  Mr Sobey informed the Commissioner that PLL is no longer trading 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  
however the legal entity remains active on Companies House. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
113.  The Commissioner has not identified any mitigating features in this 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
case. 
 

 

30 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
114.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 
 
also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
 
complied with. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
115.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, in which the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching his final 
 
view, the Commissioner has taken into account the representations 
 
made PLL. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
116.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
in this case. 
 

 
117.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
118.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

penalty on PLL. In doing so, the Commissioner has given careful 
 
 
consideration to the representations made by PLL in response to the 
 
Notice of Intent. However, the Commissioner has decided that a 
 
 
penalty nevertheless remains the appropriate course of action in the 
  
circumstances of this case. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
119.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 
 
penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The making of 
 
unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public 
concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 
   
encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 
deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 
 
businesses currently engaging in these practices. This is an opportunity 
 
to reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that they are only 

   
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

telephoning consumers who are not registered with the TPS and/or 
 
specifically indicate that they do not object to receiving these calls. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
120.  In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 
the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 
 
the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 
achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 
 
ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 
 
the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 
 
 
proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 
 
of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
  
businesses. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
121.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
penalty in this case. 

 

 

 
 
 
The amount of the penalty 
 
122.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
that a penalty in the sum of £80,000 (eighty thousand pounds) is 
reasonable and proportionate given the particular facts of the case and 
 
the underlying objective in imposing the penalty. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Conclusion 
 
 
123.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
BACS transfer or cheque by 19 March 2024 at the latest. The 
 
 
monetary penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

32 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 
the Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account 
 
at the Bank of England. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
124.  If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
 
18 March 2024 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary penalty 
 
by 20% to £64,000 (sixty four thousand pounds). However, you 
 
 
should be aware that the early payment discount is not available if you 
  
decide to exercise your right of appeal. 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

125.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
against: 
 

 
(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and/or; 

              
 
 
(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 
     
 
notice. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
126.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
  
of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
127.  Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
128.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
unless: 
 

 
  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
 
penalty has not been paid; 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 
 

 

 

 

 
variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

33 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
variation of it has expired. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
129.  In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

 
 
recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 
 
Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 
 
 
an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
  
issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland. 

   
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dated the 15th  day of February 2024. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signed: 

  

 

 
Andy Curry 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

34 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX  1  
 

SECTION  55  A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998   

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST  DECISIONS OF THE  COMMISSIONER  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
   
 

 
Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 

 
1. 
 
upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 
 
against the notice. 
 
 
2. 
 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
 
accordance with the law; or 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 

 
b) 
 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 
  
his discretion differently, 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 

 
 
the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 
 
 
3. 
Tribunal at the following address: 
 
                 
 
                 
                 
                 
 

 
General Regulatory Chamber 
 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
  
LE1 8DJ 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
Telephone: 0203 936 8963 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
4. 
 

 
Email: 

 
grc@justice.gov.uk 

 
The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 

 

 

 

 

 

 
a) 
  
Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice. 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
b) 
 
 
unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 
 
rule. 
 
The notice of appeal should state:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
your name and address/name and address of your 

 

 

 

 

a) 
representative (if any); 
 

 
 

 

b) 

     

 
an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
you; 
 

c) 

     

the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
d) 
 
 

e) 
 
 
f) 
 
 

 
details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the result that you are seeking; 

 

 

 

 

 
the grounds on which you rely; 

 

 

 

 

 

 
you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
g) 
 
monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 
h) 
 
 
notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 
and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 
 
time. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 

 
 
5. 
 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 
 
whom he may appoint for that purpose. 
 
 
6. 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 
 
Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
 
(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 
The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

37 

