 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 39/2021 on whether Article 58(2)(g) GDPR could 

serve as a legal basis for a supervisory authority to order ex 

officio the erasure of personal data, in a situation where 

such request was not submitted by the data subject 

Adopted on 14 December 2021 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................................................3 

RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE GDPR ................................................................................4 

SUBJECT MATTER OF THE OPINION....................................................................................5 

ADOPTED SOLUTION .......................................................................................................6 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having  regard  to  Article  63  and  Article  64(2)  of  the  Regulation  2016/679/EU  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the 
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC 
(hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The  main  role  of  the  European  Data Protection Board  (hereafter the  “Board”) is  to  ensure  the 
consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  throughout  the  European  Economic  Area. Article  64(2)  GDPR 
provides  that any supervisory  authority, the Chair of the Board or the Commission  may request that 
any  matter of  general  application  or  producing  effects  in  more  than  one  EEA  Member  State  be 
examined by the Board with a view to obtaining an opinion. The aim of this opinion  is to examine a 
matter of general application or which produces effects in more than one EEA Member State. 

(2) On 6th October 2021, the Hungarian Data Protection Authority requested the Board to examine and 
issue  an  opinion  on  whether  Article  58(2)(g)  GDPR could  serve  as  a  legal basis  for  a  supervisory 
authority to order ex officio  the erasure of personal data, in a situation where such  request was not 
submitted by the data subject. 

(3) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with Article 
10(2) of the Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and the 
competent supervisory authorities have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision  of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter. 

 
HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1 

INTRODUCTION 

1. 

Each Member States’ supervisory  authority is responsible  for monitoring the application of the GDPR, 
in  order  to  protect  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons  in  relation  to  data 
processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data within the European Economic Area (“EEA”). 
In  this  regard, Article 57(1)(a)  GDPR provides  that  each  supervisory  authority  shall  on  its  territory 
enforce the application of the GDPR. This duty applies regardless of whether the supervisory authority 
acts ex officio  or on the basis of a complaint. However, in order to carry out this task the supervisory 
authorities must have effective toolsets, which allow them to take action against infringements of the 

                                                             
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Regulation.  For  this  reason,  Article  58(2)  GDPR  provides  for  a  set  of  corrective  powers  that  a 
supervisory  authority can use. 
 
As  a matter of  fact, “strong  enforcement”, “consistent and  homogenous  application  of  the  rules”, 
“equivalent powers for monitoring and ensuring compliance”, “equivalent sanctions for infringements” 
and “same tasks and effective powers, including (…) corrective powers” are all called for by the recitals 
of the GDPR.2 
 
Hence, for the sake of the consistent application of the Regulation by the supervisory  authorities, on 
6th October 2021, the Hungarian Data Protection Authority requested the Board  to examine and issue 
an opinion on whether Article 58(2)(g) GDPR could serve as a legal basis for a supervisory authority to 
order ex officio the erasure of unlawfully processed personal data, in a situation where such a request 
was not submitted by the data subject 
 
This question of interpretation concerns a “matter of general application” of the GDPR, which has the 
potential to  infringe the  fundamental right to data protection. Indeed, the  powers conferred  upon 
supervisory  authorities by Article 58 GDPR should  be interpreted and applied  in a consistent manner 
in order to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR, also in light of the fact that the supervisory 
authorities’ use of such powers may produce legal effects in more than one Member State (e.g., in the 
context of One-Stop-Shop  procedures). 
 
The EDPB has not yet issued guidelines  or statements on the matter outlined above. Thus, to enable 
the consistent application of the GDPR across the EEA, an objective interpretation must be found as to 
whether or not Article 58(2)(g) GDPR could serve as a legal basis for a supervisory  authority to order 
ex officio the erasure of unlawfully processed personal data, in a situation where such request was not 
submitted by the data subject. 

2  RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE GDPR 

Recital 7 GDPR states that due to the rapid technological developments and globalisation  “a strong 
and  more  coherent  data  protection  framework”  is  required  in  the  Union,  “backed  by  strong 
enforcement, given the importance of creating the trust that will allow the digital economy to develop 
across the internal market.” 
 
Recital 10 GDPR provides  that “In order to ensure a consistent and high level of protection of natural 
persons and to remove the obstacles to flows of personal data within the Union, the level of protection 
of  the rights and freedoms  of natural persons  with regard to the processing  of such  data should  be 
equivalent  in  all  Member  States.  Consistent  and  homogenous  application  of  the  rules  for  the 
protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons  with regard to the processing 
of personal data should  be ensured throughout the Union.” 
 
Recital 11 GDPR states that “Effective protection of personal data throughout the Union requires (…) 
equivalent  powers  for  monitoring  and  ensuring  compliance  with  the  rules  for  the  protection  of 
personal data and equivalent sanctions for infringements in the Member States.” 
 
Recital 129  GDPR provides  that “In order to  ensure consistent  monitoring  and  enforcement of  this 
Regulation throughout the Union, the supervisory  authorities should  have in each Member State the 
same tasks and effective powers, including powers of  investigation, corrective powers and sanctions 
(…).” 

                                                             
2 Recital 7, 10, 11 and 129 GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

 

10.  Article 5(1)(a) and (e) provides  that personal data shall be processed  lawfully and, as a rule, shall be 
kept in  a form  which permits  identification of  data subjects  for no  longer than is  necessary  for the 
purposes  for  which  the personal  data are processed.  Article 5(2)  further enshrines  the controller’s 
responsibility  to comply with paragraph 1.  
 

11.  Chapter VI GDPR, entitled “Independent supervisory  authorities”, defines  the competence, tasks and 

powers of the data protection authorities in order to contribute to a consistent application GDPR. 
 

12.  Article  57(1)(a)  GDPR provides  that  each  supervisory  authority  shall  on  its  territory  enforce  the 

application GDPR. 
 

13.  Article  58(2)(g)  GDPR  provides  that  each  supervisory  authority  shall  have  the  right  to  order  the 
rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing pursuant to Articles 16, 17 and 18 
and  the notification  of  such  actions  to  recipients  to  whom  the  personal  data have been  disclosed 
pursuant to Article 17(2) and Article 19. 
 

14.  Article 17(1) GDPR provides that the data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the 
erasure of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller shall have the 
obligation to erase personal data without undue delay where one of the following grounds applies: 

a)  the personal  data are no  longer  necessary in  relation to  the purposes  for which  they  were 

collected or otherwise processed; 

b)  the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according to point (a) of 
Article  6(1), or  point  (a)  of  Article  9(2), and  where there  is  no  other  legal ground  for  the 
processing; 

c)  the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are no overriding 
legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant 
to Article 21(2); 

d)  the personal data have been unlawfully processed; 
e)  the personal data have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member 

f) 

State law to which the controller is subject; 
the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services 
referred to in Article 8(1). 

3  SUBJECT MATTER OF THE OPINION 

15. 

16. 

17. 

First  of  all,  the  Board  considers  that  the  consistent  application  of  the  corrective  powers  of  the 
supervisory  authorities  is  of  key  importance for  the  consistent  level  of  protection  in  the European 
Economic Area.  
 
To enable the consistent  application and effective implementation GDPR across  the EEA, the Board 
considers that there is a clear need to interpret Article 58(2)(g) GDPR to assess whether it could serve 
as  a legal basis  for  a supervisory  authority to  order  ex officio  the  erasure of  unlawfully  processed 
personal data in a situation where such request was not submitted by the data subject. In this regard, 
the supervisory  authorities need legal certainty to exercise their powers in a consistent manner, and 
to avoid the creation of diverging administrative practices on this sensitive subject. 
 
The Board underlines, however, that the scope of the opinion  is limited to the question raised by the 
Hungarian Data Protection Authority, hence it only provides clarity on whether Article 58 (2)(g) GDPR 
could  serve as  a legal basis  for  a supervisory  authority to  order ex officio  the erasure of  unlawfully 
processed personal data, in a situation where such request was not submitted by the data subject.  

Adopted 

 

5 

 

18. 

19. 

 
The Board emphasises that in the context of this opinion  it does not assess the different powers listed 
in Article 58(2) GDPR, and their interplay. For this reason, the opinion is without prejudice to the other 
powers listed in Article 58(2) GDPR, and it does  not exclude the possibility  for supervisory  authorities 
to base their order of erasure on another legal basis provided for in Article 58(2) GDPR.  
 
For the Board to be able to assess whether supervisory  authorities may order the erasure of personal 
data under  58(2)(g)  GDPR even in  the absence  of  a request for  erasure from the data subject, it is 
essential to assess  if Article 17 GDPR imposes an obligation to erase personal data on  the controller 
only following a request from the data subject.  
 

20.  Article 17(1) GDPR establishes, on the one hand, the right of the data subject to request the erasure 
of  their personal  data and, on  the other hand, the  obligation of  the controller  to erase those  data 
where one of the grounds cited in the Article apply. The question that arises is whether this obligation 
is conditional to the exercise of the right by a data subject, or it exists independently of any request of 
the data subject. 
 
It can be argued that the wording of this Article including its title (“Right of erasure”) suggests that the 
obligation to erase presupposes  that the data subject has exercised his/her right to request erasure.  
 

21. 

23. 

22.  However, it can also be argued that Article 17 GDPR provides for both (i) an independent right for data 
subjects and (ii) an independent obligation for the controller. In this regard, Article 17 GDPR does not 
require the data subject to take any specific  action, it merely outlines that the data subject “has the 
right to obtain” erasure and the data controller “has the obligation to erase” if one of cases set forth 
in Article 17(1) GDPR applies. 
 
The interpretation that the controller’s erasure obligation is independent from the data subject’s right 
for  erasure is  supported  by  the fact that some  cases set forth  in Article 17(1)  GDPR clearly refer to 
scenarios  that the controllers  must  detect as  part of  their obligation  for erasure,  independently  of 
whether or not the data subjects are aware of these cases. In fact, it would be difficult for data subjects 
to  be  aware of  (i)  legal obligations  to  which  the controller  is  subject  (letter e);  (ii)  when  the  data 
collected are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes  for which they were collected (letter a); 
or (iii) when personal data are unlawfully processed (letter d). Detecting these circumstances must be 
the responsibility  of  the data controllers as part of  their compliance with the regulations GDPR, and 
cannot be the responsibility of the data subjects. This responsibility also stems from Article 5(1) (a), (e) 
and (2) GDPR. 
 
Furthermore, it can be argued that it is of utmost importance for the effective enforcement GDPR, that 
supervisory  authorities  possess  powerful  tools  to  take  efficient  actions  against  infringements. 
However, an interpretation requiring the prior request for erasure of the data subject for imposing the 
obligation for erasure on the controller would restrict the supervisory authorities’ power in regards to 
Article 58(2)(g) GDPR.  
 

24. 

4  ADOPTED SOLUTION 

25. 

For the Board to assess whether the power of the supervisory authorities under Article 58 (2)(g) GDPR 
applies  even  in the  absence of  a request for  erasure from  the data subject,  it first had  to consider 
whether Article 17 GDPR imposes  an obligation  on the controller only  following  a request from the 
data subject, or if this obligation is independent thereof.  
 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

26. 

In this regard the Board found  that Article 17 GDPR provides for two separate cases for erasure that 
are independent from each other: 

I. 
II. 

the erasure at the request of the data subject, and  
the erasure as a standalone obligation of the controller. 

27. 

 
This conclusion  of the Board is supported by the fact that some cases set forth in Article 17(1)  GDPR 
clearly refer to scenarios that the controllers must detect on their own as part of their obligation for 
compliance with the provisions  GDPR, and by the rationale to allow supervisory  authorities to ensure 
the enforcement of the principles enshrined in the GDPR even in cases where the data subjects are not 
informed or aware of the processing, or in cases where not all concerned data subjects have submitted 
a request for erasure. 
 

28.  Based on the above reasoning, the EDPB concludes that Article 58(2)(g) GDPR is a valid legal basis for 
a  supervisory  authority  to  order  ex  officio  the erasure  of  unlawfully  processed  personal  data in  a 
situation where such request was not submitted by the data subject. 
 
This opinion will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR. 
 
For the European Data Protection Board 

29. 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

 

7 

