1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00137/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated September 23,
2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against D. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the

reclaimed).

The claimant states that she received a postal mail at her address, with
numerous personal data of officials of the Department of Justice of the
Generalitat de Catalunya, which include postal addresses, names, surnames and
DNI., among which are those of the claimant, not knowing how
obtained your data by not having any personal or professional relationship with the
reclaimed.

It provides a list, where, among others, the name, surnames and DNI of the

claimant.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out actions for its clarification, under the protection of
the powers of investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, in
hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I,
Second section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

The respondent has provided a copy of the aforementioned documents that are

in his power.

He states that at no time did he put names, or checking accounts, or

no information that could bring them family or professional complications.

Personal data, address and your D.N.I. are handwritten in a letter

third, indicating the name of the latter.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

THIRD: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it states that the personal data to which
the plaintiff refers, at no time have they been collected by him, nor used
for any illicit purpose.

FIFTH: On July 9, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/07212/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On September 10, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
imposes B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 6 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It appears in the postal mail sent by the claimed party to the claimant
numerous personal data of officials of the Department of Justice of the
Generalitat de Catalunya, in which postal addresses, names,
surnames and DNI, among which are those of the claimant.

SECOND: The respondent states that the personal data referred to in the
claimant, at no time have they been or collected by him, or used for purposes
any illegal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of Article
6 of the GDPR. which states that: “1. The processing will only be lawful if at least
one of the following conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/6

personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

III

In the present case, the claim focuses on the fact that the defendant violated the
article 6.1 of the RGPD, since the personal data of the claimant was
treaties without legitimacy for it. Consequently, it has carried out a treatment of
personal data without having proven that you have the consent of the
itself for its treatment, nor that it has the legal authorization for it.

However, and this is essential, the defendant does not prove legal standing to

the treatment of your data.

Therefore, there is no doubt, as the respondent acknowledges, the subsequent use of the

personal data of the claimant made by an unauthorized third party.

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

Therefore, in response to the defendant's allegations, stating that the
personal data to which the claimant refers, at no time have they been
collected by the defendant, nor used for any illicit purpose, there is evidence of
that the claimant received a letter in her mailbox with the personal data of
officials of the Department of Justice of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in which
include postal addresses, names, surnames and DNI, and among which are
find those of the claimant.

Therefore, it must be pointed out in accordance with the precepts indicated in the
legal basis II, that the respondent has no legal standing to deal
claimant information.

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

v

The exposed facts constitute, on the part of the defendant, an infraction to the

provided in article 6 of the RGPD.

 Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD,
in your art. 58.2 b) provides the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, when collecting
through the list of postal mail personal data of officials and consider that
the administrative fine that could fall in accordance with the provisions of article
83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the claimed party, whose
main activity is not directly linked to the processing of personal data,
since there is no record of the commission of any previous infringement in terms of protection
of data, in relation to what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 6
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D. B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

