

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of personal data in the application "We want better Czechia" (YES 2011)




On the basis of two initiatives and a notification of a breach of personal data security, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the subject of which was mainly the security of personal data in the application "We want a better Czechia" operated by the political movement ANO 2011. The Office found that the inspected person operated through of its website an application intended for collecting the opinions of registered users on a certain current issue or question, their evaluation and subsequent creation of statistics. As part of the registration to the application, it is required to fill in data in the range of e-mail address, access password, zip code, gender, age range and highest level of education. However, at the moment of sending the questionnaire, the application's original link with the user's e-mail address is broken. Together with the questionnaire, the controlled person will only receive data on the user's age range, gender, zip code and educational attainment. Backlinking of this data and users' e-mail address is no longer technically feasible. The information that the controlled person obtains from the questionnaire cannot generally be attributed to a specific natural person. In rare cases, however, a situation may arise where it will be possible to identify a specific person only on the basis of this information. With regard to the above, it is reasonable to treat the collected information as personal data and to consider the controlled person as the administrator. The legal title to the processing of personal data in the given case is the consent of the persons concerned, which also includes consent to the processing of a special category of personal data – information about political opinions. The operation of the application in question is ensured by the controlled person through a personal data processor with whom it has entered into an agreement that meets the requirements for a personal data processing agreement. In relation to the breach of personal data security, the inspection showed that there was an abuse of a weakness in the technical solution for unsubscribing application users from e-mail subscriptions by an unknown person, who used an automatic script to unsubscribe all application users from e-mails. In doing so, the e-mail addresses of the application's users may have been made available to this person. The inspected person corrected the deficiency in question immediately after learning about it. The controlled person reported a possible violation of personal data security, including the measures taken, to the Office within the required deadline. The controlled person violated the obligations set out in Article 32 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 by the above-mentioned action, as he did not take sufficient technical and organizational measures for the security of personal data. to the fact that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures and waived the imposition of a fine. The inspection was conducted by inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the security of personal data in the application "We want better Czechia" (YES 2011)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



