




Press release from the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
Two years General Data Protection Regulation







No.20200703
|
07/03/2020
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

Last week, the European Commission presented its report on the two-year application of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). "I agree with the EU Commission that the GDPR has achieved its goal of strengthening the individual right to data protection," says Heinz Müller, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. "But I'm pretty disappointed that the EU Commission didn't come up with any suggestions for improving the GDPR."
The conference of the independent federal and state data protection authorities had proposed several concrete changes to the EU Commission that would make the GDPR more suitable for everyday use. Müller: "Small and medium-sized companies with low-risk data processing could be relieved in fulfilling their transparency obligations according to Art. 13 and 14 DS-GVO, for example, by the fact that they only have to provide the respective information on request." But now it will first be with the existing regulations remain.
In its report, the EU Commission again refers to the obligation of the member states to provide their data protection supervisory authorities with the necessary human, financial and technical resources. Most authorities would have received correspondingly more staff. Between 2016 and 2019, there was an average increase in staff of 42 percent across Europe. However, this is unevenly distributed. In individual member states the personnel situation is therefore still unsatisfactory. Müller can only confirm this: "As the only data protection supervisory authority in Germany, my authority has not been given a new position. I wonder how much the governing coalition actually cares about protecting civil rights.”









                Back to overview









