1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00262/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 30, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based consist of the
possible identity theft, since said entity demands the payment of a
debt that the claimant does not acknowledge. When the claimant became aware of such
request for payment, he filed a complaint with the General Directorate of the Police.

Along with the claim, provide a copy of the police report dated July 28,

2018 and the invoices corresponding to the required debt.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

On December 6, 2018, this Agency received, with the number of
registration 209002/2018, written response to the transfer of the claim from
of XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (hereinafter, XFERA), as the owner of the brand
MÁSMOVIL, making the following statements:

- That, like the claimant, it is the will of this party to know the causes
that may have led to the incident that has given rise to this claim
for which the possible causes of the problem are being investigated internally.
incident.

- That since there is a complaint for these same facts in police headquarters
with certificate number 14651/18, filed on July 28 of the year in
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/6

course (Annex 1 of the claim), and that taking into account that these facts
are already being officially investigated by criminal means, they request that
is up to the resolution of said procedure to clarify the possible
causes of the incident, by virtue of the principle of no bis in idem,
that orders the sanctioning procedure in both legal systems

In view of such manifestations, a new request is made by
this Agency to XFERA so that it can provide documentation that allows proving aspects
such as the service contract, the contracting procedure and accreditation of the
identity, as well as knowing the status of the corresponding criminal procedure
to the police report 14651/18, to which XFERA refers in its writing, without having
received a response in this regard within the period given for it.

THIRD: On July 22, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD
expressly indicating their right to a hearing in the procedure and
granting him a period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate the allegations and
propose the tests that it considers appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
section f) of article 127 of the RLOPD.

Likewise, in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP), you were informed that if you do not make allegations in time to this agreement
initially, it may be considered a resolution proposal.

 TO: Not having formulated allegations or presented evidence within the term

QUAR
 
given, this resolution is issued taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Identity theft is denounced, in the contracting of the service
of the claimed, not having notice of it until said entity demands payment
of a debt that the claimant does not acknowledge, after which he files a complaint with the
General Directorate of the Police on July 28, 2018, providing a copy of said
complaint and the invoices corresponding to the required debt.

SECOND: The respondent states that he is investigating internally the
possible causes of the incident that is the subject of this claim, but since there is a
complaint for these same facts in police headquarters with number 14651/18,
filed on July 28, 2018 (Annex 1 of the claim), and that
Bearing in mind that these facts are already being officially investigated by
criminal proceedings, the defendant states that he will wait for the resolution of
said procedure to clarify the possible causes of the incident, by virtue of the
foundation of the principle of no bis in idem, which orders the sanctioning procedure
in both orders.
.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 4.11 of the RGPD defines the "consent of the interested party" as any
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
treatment of personal data that concerns you, as well as article 6.1 of the RGPD
establishes that for the treatment to be lawful, it will be required that the interested party
consent to the processing of your personal data for one or more purposes
specific.

For its part, article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes that “The treatment will only be

lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation
to the data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.”

III

According to the evidence currently available,
it is considered that the respondent has used the data of the claimant for the hiring
of the telephone line ***TELEFONO.1 without your consent.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The claimant states that the charge made by the entity denounced has
as origin the contracting of the ***TELEFONO.1 line, activated on the 12th of
January 2018, and the purchase of a terminal with payment in installments model Samsung Galaxy
S8 64GB, worth €654. He adds that the line was contracted "on line" and they facilitate this
Agency report on the hiring and copy of the contract.

XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. has stated that an internal investigation is underway
the possible causes of the incident and that after the complaint filed on July 28,
2018 at police headquarters with number 14651/18, these events are already being
officially investigated by criminal means, for which he requests that they be at the
resolution of said procedure to clarify the possible causes of the incident,
by virtue of the principle of no bis in idem, which orders the procedure
sanctioning in both legal systems.

This Agency considered it necessary to verify such statements and for this
made a new request for information to XFERA about the service contract, the
contracting procedure and proof of identity, and on the status of the
criminal proceedings corresponding to police report 14651/18, which
reference in his writing, without having received a response in this regard within the given period
for it.

Therefore, it is considered that by not obtaining a response to the request of the
AEPD, it is understood that the entity has not proceeded to cancel the data
of the claimant and consequently continues the treatment, so that
accordance with the evidence available at this time, and without
Despite what results from the investigation, it is considered that the known facts
could constitute an infringement, attributable to the defendant, for an alleged
violation of article 6 of the RGPD, indicated in the foundation II.

III

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

c) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but

identified significant (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, a number

identification, the line identifier), according to article 83.2 g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548, for a
violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
€60,000 (sixty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

