
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    05/05/2021
                                Kugelmann demands freedom of choice for guests of restaurants and visitors to cultural events - if only one contact tracing app is accepted, this is the wrong way. According to the state data protection officer, guests, participants and visitors to restaurants, facilities and events should not be allowed to exclusively use a specific contact tracing app "There must be no compulsion to use digital systems or a specific application," says the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann. Like all other federal states, Rhineland-Palatinate has also regulated in ordinances that catering establishments, cultural institutions and other bodies are obliged to collect and process contact and attendance data of visitors. The requirement makes sense in terms of health protection and the fight against the pandemic. “Personal data is therefore collected in apps or in paper form – such as names, contact addresses, telephone numbers and information about who was with whom and where. In my view, it is unacceptable for citizens to accept a risk that varies with each app. In terms of their informational self-determination, they should be able to choose and thus be free to make decisions.”
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) recently adopted several documents on contact tracing. In a resolution, she calls for using the opportunities of the Corona-Warn-App 2.0. Regarding the new check-in function of the app, it is said that this can “make a significant contribution to breaking infection chains”. In a comprehensive guide, the DSK lists which criteria apps should meet for digital, data protection-compliant contact tracing. The requirements for such systems and their operation are explained in particular for developers and those responsible. With a view to the Luca app, the DSK has issued a current statement. In it, the DSK points out that, despite the fundamentally viable conception of the Luca system, further technical protective measures are to be regarded as necessary.
Further information: DSK orientation guide "Use of digital services for contact tracing on the occasion of event, facility, restaurant and business visits to prevent the spread of Covid-19" DSK resolution "Use the opportunities of the Corona-Warn-App 2.0"DSK- Statement "Contact tracing systems - especially to "Luca" of culture4life GMBH"
                                return
                            



