GZ: DSB-D123.800/0001-DSB/2018 from 28.11.2018

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and e-mail addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc.,
as well as their initials and abbreviations can be used for pseudonymization reasons
be abbreviated and/or modified. Obvious spelling, grammar and
Punctuation errors have been corrected.]

 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on the data protection complaint of Mr.

Harald V*** (appellant) of 20 November 2018 against the Austrian

Parliament, Committee of Inquiry of the National Council (Respondent), because

Violation of the right to secrecy and erasure as follows:

- The complaint is rejected.

Legal basis: §§ 1 and 6 General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 - AVG,

Federal Law Gazette No. 51/1991 as amended; Sections 4 (1) and 35 (2) of the Data Protection Act – DSG, Federal Law Gazette I

No. 165/1999 as amended; Art. 77 General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR, OJ No. L 119, p.1;

Art. 24 and 53 Federal Constitutional Law – B-VG, Federal Law Gazette No. 1/1930 as amended; §§ 31 ff, § 38

as well as § 19 of Appendix 1 to the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 - GOG, BGBl.

No. 410/1975 as amended.

REASON

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

With a submission dated November 20, 2018, the complainant submitted that he had

***Committee of Inquiry testified before the National Council and the minutes are closed

this statement, although three years have now passed, still

released. They are particularly worthy of protection from publication

personal data affected. He requested the deletion of the data and be that

Request for deletion has been rejected.

B. In legal terms it follows that:

Even if the GDPR requires the data protection supervisory authorities to supervise the organs of the

Legislation - unlike courts in the context of judicial activity (Art. 55

Paragraph 3) - not simply denied, the European legal system is the separation

inherent in the powers of state. A control of the administration (executive) over the

Legislation (legislature) is excluded.

The National Council and its committees are the body through which the legislative

Competence (jointly with the Bundesrat) is exercised at federal level. the

The National Council is authorized to conduct investigations into completed processes in the field of

implementation of the Confederation (Art. 24 and Art. 53 Para. 2 B-VG). the

Committee of Inquiry to which the complainant testified and in which

the statement was recorded, is thus an organ of state power legislation

is attributable.

The data protection authority is responsible for supervising compliance with the requirements of the

DSGVO and the DSG according to Art. 77 DSGVO in connection with §§ 4 and § 35 paragraph 2

DSG. Exceptionally, the data protection authority is also responsible for the supervision of organs

the legislature - insofar as provided for in the constitutional provision of Section 35 (2) DSG

– for individual administrative matters of certain legislative bodies. In

to an extent beyond that is a control of the legislature by a

Executive body, as defined by the administrative data protection authority, not

intended.

As already stated, committees of inquiry and protocol

Records of evidence gathering (§ 19 of Annex 1 to the GOG, VO-UA)

Tasks of legislative control over the administration and are therefore not subject to the

Jurisdiction of the Data Protection Authority.

The Data Protection Authority exercises its competence ex officio and at every stage of the

process (§ 1 and § 6 para. 1 AVG).

Since the minutes cited by the complainant belong to a legislative body in

(Constitutionally) legally assigned scope of action, was the

Appeal to be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

