

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Widder Gilde s.r.o.



On the basis of 14 initiatives, the Office at Widder Gilde s.r.o. control regarding compliance with Act No. 480/2004 Coll. The controlled person is in the position of disseminator of commercial communications in the form of a customer and the company Politeks Ltd. is, in relation to commercial communications, a distributor of commercial communications in the form of an actual sender, i.e. it disseminates the commercial communications in question for the benefit of the controlled person.

By his actions, the audited person violated ยง 7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., as he initiated the dissemination of business communications without taking any reasonably expected step to verify whether his contractual partner, the company Politeks Ltd., actually has consents of recipients to sending commercial messages. The inspected person further violated ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter a) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., as the disseminated commercial communications were not clearly and clearly marked as commercial communications.

The Office could not demonstrate whether the inspected person fully complies with ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter c) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., i.e. the obligation to send commercial communications only to a valid address, to which the addressee could directly and effectively send information that he does not wish the sender to continue sending commercial information. In this context, the Office instructed the inspected person regarding the conceptual modification of the possibility of recipients to refuse sending business communications.

Following the aforementioned findings, the Office initiated a misdemeanor proceeding in the matter.

The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2018 > Unsolicited business communications - 1st half > Widder Gilde s.r.o. company View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



