1/5

 File No.: EXP202101884

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated August 18, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
tion is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The
The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“I consider that I feel observed by the neighbor, affecting said camera to
my privacy, therefore the visual field exceeds the legality of its own property.
ity in one of the cameras that it has placed in the window...” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence that proves the presence of the
allegedly poorly oriented device affecting the lower area owned by the
claiming party.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date 09/13/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On 12/02/21 a reply is received from the complainant stating
that at the indicated address “there is no device” that processes data from remote areas.
served.

FOURTH: On December 9, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FIFTH: On February 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: On 03/07/22 a letter is received from the respondent stating the
following "I have received by mail the notification of the Agreement of Initiation of
sanctioning procedure of the File. I already downloaded this document with
previously from my citizen folder and the allegations were sent to him.”

SEVENTH: On 03/22/22 a new brief of allegations is received from the
claimed by means of which it states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

"Contribution of frames of the images obtained" (Annex I).

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 08/18/21 through the
which the installation of a badly oriented camera is transferred to a private space,
affecting the privacy of a neighbor.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., which does not deny the
installation of the cameras, although the address provided by the counterpart was not that of
their habitual residence, which is why they take so long to answer this body.

Third. It is proven that none of the chamber(s) affect the private area of the
claimant, nor are they misguided.

Fourth. There is no evidence of any data processing associated with the claimant, or with any other third party.
nor has he exercised any right in legal form against the person in charge of the system.
topic in question.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each authori-
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The formal procedures
ted by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sidiario, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In the present case, the claim dated 08/18/21 is examined by me-
gave from which the following fact is transferred "installation of cameras that affect my
intimacy by adjoining neighbor” (folio nº 1).

Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD provides that personal data will be “adequate, pertinent,
limited and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed
(“data minimization”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this information”.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Nor can images of public spaces be obtained with this type of device,
as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards a private space, since it is considered
It is believed that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which is
they are intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

III

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

The mere observance of cameras from abroad does not presuppose an illegality
of them, since sometimes they are provided with privacy masks that
allow to limit the angle of what is observed with these, being the claimed part
in your freedom to install the cameras you deem necessary for the protection of your
private property without the need for the claimant to know the
system characteristics or housing protection angles.

The presence of an information poster in a visible area is not necessary either, since
they are oriented towards an exclusive space of the claimed one, which has
of freedom to install it in case of expansion of the capture with the cameras or
installation of new devices (for guidance to avoid graffiti on the
Exterior facade).

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that no infraction has been proven in
the matter that occupies us, being the system object of claim fully adapted
ted to the regulations in force, reason that justifies the Archive of this procedure.
unto

It is worth noting the full collaboration of the requested party with this body, being
provision of the same if deemed appropriate, which rules out any type
of intentional conduct in disturbing a neighbor (a) in the vicinity with a device
some.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that concerns us.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

