

Bonn, January 18, 2023


Press release 2/2023


  EDSA decides on cookie banners and cloud services
The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) came to conclusions at yesterday's meeting with the Cookie Banner Task Force and its coordinated action on cloud services.



Source: ©Faithie - stock.adobe.com

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, welcomes the progress towards more uniform supervision in these areas.
The BfDI said: A well-made and fair website does not need a cookie banner because it only uses technically necessary cookies. However, if website operators absolutely want to collect personal data, then they must not obtain consent for this by unfair or illegal means. Following the guidelines on deceptive design patterns, I have now agreed with my colleagues at the EDPB on how we can implement this as uniformly as possible in supervision. The results of the final report of the Task Force Cookie-Banner now largely correspond to what we in Germany have already recorded in the Telemedia Orientation Guide.
The EDPB also carried out its first coordinated enforcement action. The EDSA members examined the use of cloud services in public institutions. Professor Kelber sees himself encouraged by the results of the study: My authority advises the federal government on the subject of sovereign clouds, for example, in the committees of the IT Council and the IT Planning Council. We repeatedly emphasize that data protection must be considered from the outset, particularly in view of the difficulties involved in international data transfers in cloud projects. The EDSA ensures that we also have a uniform Europe-wide line here.
The EDPB press release on the meeting can be found here.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











