1(29)

Aktiebolaget Storstockholms Lokaltrafik

Diary number:
DI-2018-21487
Your diary number:

Date:
2021-06-21

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation Greater Stockholm Local Traffic
Table of Contents
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision................................................... ............................ 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ........................................ 3
Background................................................. ................................................ ........... 3
What emerged in the case................................................ ............................... 3
Justification of the decision................................................... ................................................... .... 5
Personal data controller................................................... ...................................... 5
What rules apply to SL's use of the cameras?....................................... 5
Does the camera surveillance law apply?................................................ ................ 5
Does the data protection regulation apply?................................................ ................ 5
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5).... 6
Legal basis for processing personal data (Article 6).......................... 6
Test project................................................... .............................................. 7
SL's use of body-worn cameras to prevent and document
threats and violence (purposes A and B)............................................. ................................... 7
Does SL have a legitimate interest in purposes A and B................................... 7
Is SL's treatment necessary to achieve purposes A and B?............... 8
Do the interests and rights of the data subjects outweigh for purpose A
and B?................................................ ................................................ .... 10
Summary assessment of objectives A and B................................... 12

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

SL's use of body cameras to ensure the identity of travelers
who must pay surcharge (purpose C).......................................... ............... 13
Does SL have a legitimate interest in purpose C?............................................. 13
Is SL's processing necessary for purpose C?....................................... 14
Do the interests and rights of the data subjects weigh more heavily for purpose C?17
Summary assessment of purpose C................................... 18
Information to data subjects (Article 13)............................................. ................... 19

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

2(29)

The image material................................................... ........................................ 20
Audio recording................................................... ........................................ 22
Choice of intervention................................................... ................................................ ......... 23
Possible interventions................................................... ................................ 24
Penalty fee to be imposed................................................. ................................ 24
Determining the amount of the penalty fee................................................. ......... 24
General regulations................................................... ......................... 24
Assessment of the infringements................................................... ................ 26
Summary................................................. ..................................... 28
How to appeal............................................... ................................................ ..... 29

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Privacy Protection Agency (IMY) states that Aktiebolaget Storstockholms
Local traffic with org. No. 556013-0683 since December 10, 2018 and until the time
for the IMY's decision by using body-worn cameras in connection with
ticket control, processes personal data in violation of
-

-

-

article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation1 because the camera surveillance, with
both image and sound recording, took place in violation of the principle of legality
because it took place without a legal basis and contrary to the principle of openness
by not providing sufficient information to data subjects,
Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation by processing more personal data
than was necessary for the purposes contrary to the principle of
task minimization,
Article 6.1 of the Data Protection Regulation by processing personal data without
to have some legal basis for it, as well
Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation by not providing sufficient
information to the registered.

The Privacy Protection Authority decides with the support of articles 58.2 and
83 of the data protection regulation that Aktiebolaget Storstockholms Lokaltrafik must pay a
administrative sanction fee of SEK 16 million (sixteen million), of which:
a)

b)

SEK 4,000,000 (four million) refers to Aktiebolaget Storstockholms
Local traffic's use of body-worn cameras to prevent and
document threats and violence (purposes A and B), through the use of
pre-recording technology for one minute, which lacked a legal basis according to Article
6.1 f and has been in violation of the principle of legality and the principle of
data minimization in Article 5.1 a and c of the data protection regulation,
SEK 8,000,000 (eight million) refers to Aktiebolaget Storstockholms
Local traffic's use of body-worn cameras to ensure identity
on travelers who must pay a surcharge (destination C), which is not legal

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

c)

3(29)

basis according to Article 6.1 f and has been in conflict with the principle of legality and
the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 a and c i
the data protection regulation and
SEK 4,000,000 (four million) refers to Aktiebolaget Storstockholms
Lokaltrafik's lack of information to the registered which is contrary to article
13 and the principle of transparency in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.

Account of the supervisory matter
Background
The Norwegian Data Protection Authority (IMY), formerly the Data Protection Authority, was noticed
through information in the media that Aktiebolaget Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (SL) planned
to equip its ticket inspectors with body-worn cameras and therefore began enforcement
against SL.
The purpose of the supervision has been to review SL's personal data processing with them
the body-worn cameras have taken place in accordance with the rules on legal basis in Article 6
and applicable information to the data subjects in Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation. IMY
has also investigated whether SL followed the principles of legality and transparency in Article 5.1 a
and the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c.

What emerged in the case
SL, in conjunction with IMY, supervises the company's use of body-worn devices
cameras, and the personal data processing that takes place as a result, stated in essence
following.
Initially, it was planned that the body-worn cameras would be used in
Stockholm's subway during a test period of two months from 10 December
2018 through February 10, 2019. However, the test period was extended to May 9
2019 and then another period to end on January 8, 2020. During
during the test period, there were 4-10 ticket inspectors who wore the body worn ones
the cameras.
The body-worn cameras would be used to film the missing travelers
valid ticket in connection with ticket control and which receives a surcharge issued.
The purpose of the treatment was to:




prevent threatening situations in connection with ticket control,
documenting incidents that have occurred to facilitate investigation afterwards, as well as
ensure the identity of travelers who must pay surcharges.

During the course of the inspection, SL has decided to introduce the body-worn cameras
permanent. This means that the body-worn cameras are mostly used by about 55
a few ticket inspectors on weekdays and about 20 ticket inspectors on
holidays. SL has also expanded the geographical area of use for them
the body-worn cameras, from initially only being used in Stockholm's
subway, to be used in all types of traffic within SL's entire traffic network.
SL has stated that they have extensive problems with cheating. Of the investigation in
the case reveals that the loss of revenue in 2017 linked to fraudulent driving was 254
million kroner and in 2018 the corresponding figure was 280 million kroner. The

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

4(29)

however, according to the company, the financial loss is not the primary reason for working
actively with ticket checks, as it costs more than what SL receives in additional fees. SL has
as a principle that everyone who travels with the company must pay for their journey and it is SL who
must ensure that this happens. In addition, the loss of income from cheating must always be taken into account
when pricing tickets. The most common forms of cheating are to buy
discounted ticket without being entitled to the discount and traveling without a ticket. SL also has
problems with cheating travelers stating someone else's identity at
ticket control, which leads to difficulties in connection with demanding compensation for
non-payment of surcharge in court.
According to SL, the use of the body-worn cameras has meant that approx
90 percent of the travelers show proof of identity, compared to around 60 percent
without a body camera, that fewer additional charges are disputed and that four cases were dismissed
during the test period due to the recorded material. Furthermore, SL has stated
that the ticket inspectors feel that fewer travelers get upset in connection with
the issuance of a surcharge and that the ticket inspectors feel safer.
SL has stated that the ticket inspectors wear the cameras during the entire work shift
and control the camera themselves. The camera and microphone continuously record video
with picture and sound. The cameras have a so-called circular memory, which means that there is a
continuous automatic cleaning of all video material older than 2 minutes. After
the cleaning is the recorded material, including personal data, deleted.3 IMY
hereinafter refers to the technique of continuous recording and erasure as
pre-recording technology.
SL has described that the ticket inspector, in various situations, can activate a recording
by pressing a record button. That information is then added to the recording
which is stored in the camera through the pre-recording technology. SL has indicated that there is
need to be able to preserve material that shows the sequence of events just before
the issuing of a surcharge or in threatening/violent situations. Initially
the material was stored for two minutes but this has been changed to one minute during supervision
walk. IMY refers to the continued recording that takes place after the controller
button press as activated recording.
SL has entered into an additional agreement with the personal data assistant who is responsible for
the ticket controls. It follows from the supplementary agreement that the cameras must be on for filming during
the entire shift. When a ticket inspector has to issue a surcharge, he is
instructed to record material. All situations where a surcharge is issued will
thus to be documented. Furthermore, the ticket controller must document situations then
threats arise.
After the controller finishes his work shift, the camera is placed in a
communication doll that is stored in a locked area. The camera then uploads
the material to a server for review by evidence administrators at SL and
the footage becomes available to a few evidence administrators as soon as it is uploaded.
When a ticket inspector issues a surcharge, a paper is printed at the same time
information about the company's personal data processing. The information shows among
other that SL will process photos and/or films of the person served

The storage time of one minute has been applied since October 2019, before that the circular memory lasted for two minutes. See
SL's final statement of 17 December 2020.
3 See p. 5 of SL's final statement from 17 December 2020.
2

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

5(29)

the surcharge. Furthermore, SL refers to its website for complete information on
the processing of personal data.
SL has carried out an impact assessment regarding the processing of personal data
when recording with the body-worn cameras. Of the impact assessment
it appears that SL considers that the personal data processing that takes place during recording
are either of "acceptable level" or of "monitoring level", and that the risks are not
high enough to require prior consultation.4
The Data Protection Regulation contains a large number of rules that must be followed in conjunction
with the processing of personal data. Within the scope of this supervisory matter treats
IMY not all the rules and issues that may arise in such a case
personal data processing such as the current use of body-worn cameras
implies.
IMY's examination is limited to the questions of whether SL has fulfilled the requirement on a legal basis for
the current use of the body-worn cameras, if SL lives up to them
the basic principles of legality, transparency and data minimization for
processing of personal data and whether SL has provided that information to them
registered as required by the data protection regulation.

Justification of the decision
Personal data controller
SL has stated that Aktiebolaget Storstockholms Lokaltrafik is responsible for personal data
for the processing of personal data that took place in connection with ticket control. IMY does
no other assessment.

What rules apply to SL's use of the cameras?
Camera surveillance is a form of personal data processing. If and in which
the extent to which camera surveillance is permitted is regulated in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance act (2018:1200) which supplements the data protection regulation.
Does the camera surveillance law apply?
Section 4 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that the law applies to camera surveillance according to Section 3
takes place with equipment available in Sweden. According to § 3 § 1 of the Camera Surveillance Act is intended
with camera surveillance that a television camera, another optical-electronic instrument or
a comparable equipment, without being operated on the site is used on such
means that involve long-term or regularly repeated personal surveillance.
The body-worn cameras used in the current case are operated at the scene by
the ticket inspectors. The Camera Surveillance Act therefore does not apply to SL's use
of body-worn cameras.
Does the data protection regulation apply?
According to Article 2.1, the Data Protection Regulation shall, among other things, be applied to the processing of
personal data that is fully or partially processed automatically.

Acceptable level means a risk that has been assessed as low and that does not require any action. Monitoring level means
risks that need to be analyzed more deeply and that the risks must be monitored in order to be able to quickly implement a measure
the event occurs. See SL's impact assessment, appendix 5, Assessment of threats and risks, p. 12.
4

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

6(29)

Article 4.1 of the data protection regulation states that any information relating to a
identified or identifiable natural person is personal data. According to Article 4.2 refers
with processing an action or combination of actions regarding personal data,
for example collection, registration, storage, reading and deletion.
If a surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in a picture must therefore follow the rules in the data protection regulation. Because SL
films, and records sound, from identifiable people with their cameras applies
data protection regulation.
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5)
In Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation there are a number of basic principles like that
personal data controller must take into account when processing personal data.
It follows from Article 5.1 a that personal data must be processed in a legal, accurate and transparent manner
way in relation to the registered.
It follows from Article 5.1 c that personal data must be adequate, relevant and not for
extensive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (the principle of
task minimization).
It follows from Article 5.2 that the person in charge of personal data must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that
the principles arising from Article 5.1 are complied with (principle of responsibility).
From reason 39 of the data protection regulation it follows that personal data should only be processed
if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means.
The assessment of whether SL processes personal data in accordance with the principles of
legality and transparency in Article 5.1 a and the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1
c will take place in connection with the assessment of articles 6 and 13.
Legal basis for processing personal data (Article 6)
For the use of the body-worn cameras to be considered legal, it is required that
at least one of the conditions in Article 6.1 of the Data Protection Regulation is met.
SL has stated that the legal basis on which they support their personal data processing
is balancing of interests according to Article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation.
Initially, SL also stated that the company intended to change the legal basis to an article
6.1 b of the data protection regulation (fulfilment of contracts), but that they must first change
its general conditions. However, it appears from SL's final statement that it is an article
6.1 f (balancing of interests) on which the company bases its treatment. IMY therefore comes
to test the personal data processing that is now subject to supervision according to Article 6.1 f.
In order for the processing of personal data to be legal according to Article 6.1 f i
the data protection regulation requires that SL can demonstrate that 1) there is a legitimate interest,
2) the processing of personal data is necessary for a purpose relating to it
legitimate interest pursued and 3) that the basic freedoms and rights of the data subjects do not outweigh the legitimate interest.56

5
6

See the judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 40.
See recital 47 of the data protection regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

7(29)

Test project
SL has initially stated that the personal data processing carried out with them
the body-worn cameras took place within the framework of a test project. IMY notes that
the data protection regulation does not contain any exceptions for test projects. of the regulation
requirements therefore need to be met even if the person in charge of personal data names
the processing of personal data as a test activity.

SL's use of body-worn cameras to prevent and
document threats and violence (purposes A and B)
SL has stated that the company processes personal data for the purpose of:




prevent threatening situations in connection with ticket control, below
called "purpose A",
document incidents that have occurred, hereinafter referred to as "purpose B", as well as
ensure that it is the right person who pays the surcharge, below
called "purpose C".

The company states that all types of recording that take place with the body-worn cameras
constitutes a (IMY's italics) processing of personal data, because the purposes for
the recordings often overlap and are closely connected.
IMY considers that SL's three purposes are of different nature, where purposes A and B are one
different character from purpose C. Purposes A and B both aim to improve
the security of the ticket inspectors, while objective C aims to improve SL's
possibility of achieving success in the collection of surcharge. Each purpose therefore requires
an own assessment, and can thus also lead to different conclusions as to how
extensive personal data processing may be to achieve a certain purpose.
SL's ticket inspectors use the body-worn cameras to prevent and
document threats and violence affecting the controllers (purposes A and B) and to
ensure the identity of the person receiving a surcharge in connection with ticket control
(purpose C).
IMY will initially examine the personal data processing that takes place at
the use of the body-worn cameras for purposes A and B is compatible with
article 6.1 f and the principle of legality in article 5.1 a and the principle of
data minimization in Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation. When balancing interests
according to Article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation, it is tested whether there is a legitimate interest,
if the processing is necessary to achieve stated purposes and if it
the interests of the controller of personal data outweigh the privacy interests of individuals.
Does SL have a legitimate interest in purposes A and B
SL has stated that there is an extensive problem picture regarding threats and violence against
the ticket inspectors in the subway. SL has also submitted statistics regarding
incidents and damages during the years 2018, 2019 and parts of 2020.
In 2018, a total of 62 incidents were reported (which includes verbal assaults, threats of violence
and violence), 21 cases of injury without absence and three cases of injury with sick leave.
The statistics are based on reports from approximately 60 ticket inspectors. Year 2019
a total of 110 incidents were reported. Of these, 101 incidents were less serious incidents

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

8(29)

(eg verbal abuse, insults and threats) and 9 were incidents of serious or
very serious nature (incidents of a serious nature include e.g. pushing and
incidents of a very serious nature include e.g. kicks, punches and strangleholds).
During the year 2020 up to and including November 2020, a total of 226 incidents were reported.
Of these incidents, 221 were of a less serious nature and 5 incidents were
serious or very serious nature. The statistics for 2019 and 2020 are based on approx
100 inspectors, corresponding to 84 full-time positions, and refers to incidents throughout
public transport.
SL has established that verbal threats and violations have more than doubled from the year 2019
until the year 2020, despite the restrictions on travel caused by Covid-19. SL notes
also a large percentage reduction in the serious or very serious incidents
from the year 2019, which SL believes shows the effects of the body-worn cameras.
IMY states that SL has shown that there is a legitimate interest for the company to
use body-worn cameras, with activated image and sound recording, to
prevent and document threats and violence (purposes A and B). IMY also notes that
SL has a legitimate interest in using pre-recording technology for these
purpose.
Is SL's treatment necessary to achieve purposes A and B?
As IMY noted above, the authority considers that SL has a legitimate interest in
use body-worn cameras in connection with threats and violence.
The next question then is about SL's use of body-worn cameras with image and
sound recording as well as pre-recording technology is necessary to achieve the entitled
the interest?
The necessity criterion must be seen in the light of the fact that exceptions and limitations of
the protection of personal data shall be limited to what is absolutely necessary.7 Furthermore
it follows from reason 39 of the data protection regulation that personal data should only be processed
if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means. At the same time
it follows from practice that the necessity criterion can be considered fulfilled if it contributes to
streamlining.8
It also follows from practice that the requirement of necessity must be tested together with the principle
on data minimization according to article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation which prescribes
that the personal data collected must be adequate, relevant and not for
extensive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.9
The investigation into the matter has shown that SL has taken alternative measures to those
the body-worn cameras. The ticket inspectors have received training in low affectivity
reception and during certain work shifts the ticket inspectors are also accompanied by
security guards. However, according to SL, these measures have not proven to be sufficient, why
the company decided to use body-worn cameras and to record with mobile
picture and sound.
IMY considers that SL has taken reasonable alternative measures to achieve the objectives i
connection with threats and violent situations.

C-13/16 Rīgas satiksme, paragraph 30.
C-524/06 Huber, paragraph 62.
9 C-708/18 TK, paragraph 48.
7
8

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

9(29)

In what follows, IMY examines SL's personal data processing with body worn
cameras is necessary to achieve objectives A and B, i.e. to prevent
and document threatening or violent situations.
IMY will divide the examination into one concerning activated image recording
and noise in connection with threats and violence is necessary to achieve purposes A and B,
and partly determine whether SL's continuous use of pre-recording technology is necessary
to achieve purposes A and B.
Is SL's activated recording in connection with ongoing threatening situations
necessary?
Regarding SL's recordings of threatening situations, it can be stated that the crime
directed at SL's ticket inspectors is often verbal. A personal data processing shall
be effective in relation to its purpose, which in this case is partly to investigate threats or
violence against ticket inspectors. To achieve such a purpose, the access to a
recording of moving images, of the person who uttered threats or acted violently as well as
recording audio from what was said during the situation, be able to help facilitate
the investigation.
IMY therefore states that activated recording of sound and image during an ongoing
threatening or violent situation is necessary to achieve SL's purpose of prevention
and document threats and violence (objectives A and B).
Is SL's use of pre-recording technology in the context of threatening situations
necessary?
SL has stated in its impact assessment that it is difficult in threatening situations
to determine when a recording should start, which is why pre-recording takes place for one minute
(initially under supervision for two minutes).
IMY states that there is a problem picture with threats and violence in connection with
ticket checks and that there may be a need to, when an incident occurs, be able to have
access to visual and audio material that includes what preceded the event itself. It can
achieved with the type of pre-recording technology that SL uses.
At the same time, IMY states that the pre-recording technology entails an extensive
personal data processing including both image and sound recording of travelers
who neither behaves threateningly nor violently towards the ticket inspectors. That's the question
about a large number of travelers who thus risk being watched in an environment where they are
dependent on to be able to get to, for example, work, school or activities for
recreation. Although the pre-recorded videos can be useful to achieve
purposes in cases where a threatening or violent situation suddenly arises, IMY believes that
it is the question of a large-scale invasion of the personal integrity of a large number
travelers. Necessity requisites must, as mentioned, be tested together with
the principle of data minimization which stipulates that the personal data collected
in must be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation to the purposes for
which they are treated.
IMY states that the use of pre-recording technology in and of itself fulfills the requirement of
necessity to counteract threats and violence. IMY notes at the same time that the SL:
personal data processing that takes place through the use of pre-recording technology widely
exceeds what is necessary for the purpose. Use of

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

10(29)

the pre-recording technique for one minute is too extensive in relation to the threats and
risk situations that arise in connection with ticket controls.
IMY notes that the use of pre-recording technology in the way it is now used
is not necessary to achieve objectives A and B, which means that
the processing of personal data lacks a legal basis according to Article 6.1 f and is contrary to
the principles of legality and data minimization in Article 5.1 a and c.
In case the pre-recording technique had only been in place for a short time
the processing of personal data, given the problem picture that exists, could be considered to be
necessary to achieve objectives A and B. IMY considers in this specific case that a
shorter time span of a maximum of 15 seconds, could have been accepted to achieve
the purpose.
IMY is now testing as a final step in the balancing of interests that must be done according to article
6.1 f if the interests of the data subjects weigh more heavily in SL's recordings of threats
situations as well as the use of pre-recording technology for purposes A and B.
Do the interests and rights of the data subjects outweigh purposes A and B?
IMY states at the outset that camera surveillance with fixed cameras is relative
common in the subway environment. Camera surveillance in a subway car and of a
metro station with fixed cameras are exempt from the permit requirement for some
purpose10. When subway cars and subway stations were exempted from
the permit obligation, the government stated as the reason for the exception that individuals can expect
themselves to be monitored when they are there because there are a large number of cameras
where. Furthermore, the government stated that those who were monitored were also those who normally do
was protected by the surveillance.11 This suggests that the privacy interest in the use of
cameras that record footage in the subway are relatively light. IMY states
however, that SL has now expanded the area for the use of body-worn cameras
to apply to SL's entire traffic network and all types of traffic and that the same conclusion applies
the privacy interest cannot be drawn in all places and for all types of traffic.
From the preparatory work for the camera surveillance law, it appears that recording or interception of
audio has long been regarded as particularly sensitive to privacy and that such
personal data processing in the future should also be the subject of a careful examination in that regard
individual case.12
By the European Data Protection Board's (EDPB) guidelines for the processing of
personal data through video devices13 it appears that if one assumes that video surveillance
is necessary to protect the legitimate interests of a data controller, receives a
video surveillance system is only put into operation if the data controller's or a
legitimate interests of third parties (eg protection of property or physical integrity) not
overrides the data subject's interests or fundamental rights and freedoms.
The data controller must consider; 1) to what extent the monitoring
affects the interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and 2)

See section 9 point 6 of the Camera Surveillance Act.
Prop. 2012/13:115 p. 66.
12 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 67.
13 EDPB Guidelines 3/2019 for the processing of personal data through video devices, version 2.0, adopted on 29
January 2020.
10
11

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

11(29)

if this causes violations or negative consequences with respect to it
data subject's rights. A balancing of these interests is mandatory.14
Even when assessing the interests and rights of the data subjects, IMY will share
up the examination to partly refer to SL's activated recordings of threatening or
violent situations, partly refer to SL's pre-recording technology which is used continuously for
to record preschool to threatening or violent situations.
Weighs the interests and rights of the data subjects more heavily in connection with ongoing
threatening or violent situations (purposes A and B)?
According to IMY's assessment, the interest in privacy is stronger in the case of image and
the audio recording of threatening situations with the body-worn cameras than otherwise
camera surveillance that takes place with fixed cameras in the subway. This because the camera
is directed at a certain person and when recording follows this person continuously on the basis of
that the individual acted in a certain way, e.g. that the traveler acted in a way that
perceived as threatening. As with surveillance with fixed cameras, one is also registered
large number of travelers who have not behaved threateningly. Some measures to reduce it
the infringement has, as far as has emerged in the case, not been dealt with.
Furthermore, current camera surveillance now includes sound recording, unlike others
camera surveillance in the subway, which means that the breach of privacy becomes greater then
audio recording is considered particularly sensitive to privacy. That is also the question
sound recording in a public place, in SL's entire traffic network, which many people depend on for
to get to different places, where the traveler cannot reasonably expect to
sound recording takes place. Overall, IMY believes that the privacy interest of SL's
recordings of ongoing threatening situations make a strong impression.
Regarding the need for surveillance, SL has shown a significant interest in performing
the current personal data processing because there is an actual threat against
the ticket inspectors. Furthermore, SL's recording of an ongoing threatening or
violent situation that the processing of personal data is limited to taking place only then
a threatening situation has actually arisen, whereby personal data processing is limited to
as it is absolutely necessary. The recorded material is stored during the day locally and
is only loaded at the end of the work shift into a central storage area. Furthermore, the access to
the recorded material limited to a few people.
IMY states that SL's interest in surveillance weighs heavily under threats
situations. Against this must be weighed the fact that the interest in privacy at the site is becoming strong
current. Although a large number of travelers are caught by security, of whom the majority
has not acted threateningly and audio recording is a particularly privacy-sensitive treatment,
IMY believes that the SL's activated image and sound recording during threatening situations is
acceptable in light of the weighty interest in these situations.
In an overall assessment, IMY considers that SL's legitimate interest in recording images and audio material in threatening situations weighs somewhat more heavily than the interest in privacy.
In this regard, it is particularly taken into account that SL has shown that the ticket inspectors are exposed to crime and that
personal data processing will only continue when a threatening or violent
situation occurs.

See point 30 of the EDPB's Guidelines 3/2019 for the processing of personal data through video devices, version 2.0,
adopted on 29 January 2020.
14

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

12(29)

Do the interests and rights of the data subjects outweigh the continuous use of
pre-recording technology for purposes A and B?
As IMY stated above, the authority considers that SL's use of continuous
pre-recording technology is not necessary, at least not for as long as one
minute.
IMY also states in a balance of interests that the use of
pre-recording technology means that all travelers who are in front of one
ticket inspector with a camera is subject to both image and sound recording.
Against this must be weighed the fact that the pre-recording is only stored locally in the ticket controller
camera and is deleted after one minute, in case a threatening situation does not arise. SL has
also stated that it can be difficult to determine when a recording should start and has
demonstrated that there is an actual threat to the ticket inspectors.
IMY states that the privacy interest outweighs SL's interest in using
pre-recording technology for a full minute. IMY does not consider the SL to be heavy enough
weighty interest in justifying a continuous image and sound recording of all
travelers who are in front of the camera's coverage area. This means that
the processing of personal data, through the continuous use of
pre-recording technology, lacking a legal basis according to Article 6.1 f and contrary to the principle
on the legal basis in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.
IMY also notes that the pre-recording technique led to an overly extensive
processing of personal data in relation to the purposes for which they are processed, then
the pre-recording technique is deemed to include many registered persons who should not need to
expect to be filmed and recorded with image and sound in threatening situations such as
they themselves are not involved in. Even children, who are seen as particularly worthy of protection, can come
to be filmed. The surveillance has also taken place in an environment that travelers often are
dependent on to get to work, school and recreation. The treatment therefore has
also occurred in violation of the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c i
data protection regulation.
However, IMY believes that the pre-recording technique could be acceptable within the framework of
Article 6.1 f of SL limited the processing to only last for a shorter period of time.
The processing of personal data that now takes place continuously for one minute, through
the pre-recording technique, according to IMY, is too long a time and leads to too much
invasion of the personal integrity of the travelers who may be filmed with them
both image and sound. As stated above, the authority believes that a maximum of 15 seconds
could have been an acceptable time in this case.
Summary assessment of objectives A and B
IMY notes that SL's use of body-worn cameras with enabled
recording of image and sound material to prevent and document ongoing
threatening or violent situations do not contravene the rules of the data protection regulation.
IMY notes, however, that SL's use of pre-recording technology as continuous
records image and sound material and stores it for at least one minute, contravenes
article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation when the processing is not necessary and
the interest in privacy weighs more heavily for those registered.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

13(29)

SL's use of pre-recording technology thus lacks a legal basis and
the processing of personal data thus does not meet the principle of legality in Article 5.1 a.
IMY also notes that the pre-recording technique led to an overly extensive
processing of personal data in relation to the purposes for which they are processed and that
the processing therefore also took place in violation of the principle of data minimization in the article
5.1 c.
However, IMY believes that the pre-recording technology could be compatible with Article 6.1 f
as well as Article 5.1 a and c of SL limited the processing to only ongoing
continuously for a maximum of 15 seconds.

SL's use of body cameras to ensure
the identity of travelers who must pay surcharges (purpose
C)
SL also uses the body-worn cameras to ensure its identity
person who is charged a surcharge. The ticket inspectors are instructed to use
the pre-recording technology and record the event each time a surcharge is issued
through activated recording.
SL considers that the processing of personal data that takes place with the aim of determining
the identity of the persons for whom the surcharge is issued and the treatment that takes place in
associations with threatening or violent situations are intimately connected. Threatening
or violent situations almost always occur in connection with that surcharge
is issued.
Due to the above, as well as the limited opportunity for individual controllers
to, in practice and technically, handle the body cameras in different ways depending on whether
it is about identification or a threatening or violent situation, SL believes that
the assessment of the current treatment that takes place, in the first instance, must be based on
the need for controllers to limit threatening and violent situations and not i
purpose of identifying persons for whom a surcharge has been issued. SL does not consider it to be
realistic to make demands that the controllers treat each situation
different.
SL has also stated that a traveler has no legal obligation to identify himself
in connection with ticket controls in public transport. Ticket inspectors have no right to
request a traveler's identity document, which makes the possibilities for secure identification
in connection with the issuance of the surcharge are clearly limited.
In the following, IMY examines the processing of personal data that takes place during use
of the body-worn cameras to ensure the identity of passengers served
a surcharge is compatible with Article 6.1 f and the principle of legality in Article
5.1 a, and the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation.
Does SL have a legitimate interest in purpose C?
SL has stated that the number of additional fees in the last three years has amounted to approx. 30,000
per year.15 The additional fee amounts to SEK 1,500 plus ticket costs.

15

SL's PM dated 10/29/2018, Q & A body cameras ticket control.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

14(29)

In 2017, the loss of revenue due to fraudulent driving or ticket fraud amounted to 254
million kroner. 69 percent of the travelers who are caught in the ticket checks have bought
a discounted ticket even though they are not eligible for it and 29 percent miss out entirely
ticket. Ticket fraud is said to be more common in the subway than on commuter trains and buses.
In 2017, 291 cases went on to be examined in the district court in cases where the traveler refused
pay surcharge. Of these, SL was right in 144 cases, 48 cases were withdrawn or
written off, 95 cases ended with settlement between SL and the traveler, two cases
was rejected and two are ongoing. In 2018, the loss of revenue was linked to
cheating 280 million kroner.
SL has stated that for the time period January to November 2020, 38 cases are valid
identity thefts in connection with additional charges written off. This means that matters
is terminated, among other things, because the surcharge has been contested and the traveler
could not be identified. It should also be taken into account here that SL's systematic
ticket checks had a break during the spring and summer of 2020 due to
Covid-19. During a normal year, the number of cases and written-off cases had probably
been significantly higher.
SL believes that the statistics support their position that the use of body worn
cameras, despite the personal data processing it entails, is necessary both in
matters relating to surcharge and matters involving threatening/violent
situations and that the processing is proportionate in relation to the purposes.
IMY considers that SL has a legitimate interest in processing personal data in connection
with assurance of identity.
Is SL's treatment necessary for purpose C?
The necessity criterion must, as mentioned above, be seen in the light of the fact that exceptions and
restrictions on the protection of personal data must be limited to what is absolute
necessity.16 From reason 39 of the data protection regulation it follows that personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved through others
average. At the same time, it follows from practice that the necessity criterion can be considered fulfilled if that
contributes to efficiency.17
It also follows from practice that the requirement of necessity must be tested together with the principle
on data minimization according to article 5.1 c which stipulates that the personal data which
collected must be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation to them
purposes for which they are processed.18
SL has taken some alternative measures to the body worn cameras to
ensure the identity of the person who pays the surcharge. SL always asks for
identity document. The ticket inspector can also check the identity of the traveler by
to request social security number, name and address and compare these with the information in
The government's personal data addresses (SPAR). SL has stated that the ticket inspectors
sometimes even make hits on the provided name on Facebook to ensure
the identity. In the event that objections arise afterwards, the ticket controller's consent is used
notes and testimonials.

C-13/16 Rīgas satiksme, paragraph 30.
C-524/06 Huber, paragraph 62.
18 C-708/18 TK, paragraph 48.
16
17

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

15(29)

However, SL has stated that it is difficult to ensure the identity with the support of
the ticket inspector's memoirs and testimony. SL has referred to a judgment
from the Supreme Court regarding proof requirements and burden of proof in cases of additional fee according to
the law (1977:67) on surcharge in public passenger transport to demonstrate that it is difficult to
prove identity with the help of the ticket checker's testimony and memory notes.19
The judgment shows that it is the transport company that has the burden of proof that this is the case
as the transport company claims.20 Regarding the proof requirement, the Supreme Court states i
mainly the following:
"The transport company should be able to fulfill its burden of proof in the matter of
the traveler's identity through certain simpler standard proof, as long as the
pointed out the traveler not in the face of objections and refutations of certain
weight".21 The Supreme Court further states "The simple case is when it of
the ticket inspector's notes or testimony show that the traveler
at the check has presented a valid identification document; the space for
that the controller has then made a mistake can be considered very limited. But
even when there is documentation showing that the controller has
ascertained the identity of the traveler in another convincing way may
the transport company is normally considered to have fulfilled its burden of proof. An example of
this is when the traveler in connection with the control has left complete
and consistent information about name, address and social security number. In a
in such a case, however, it must, in the aggregate evaluation of evidence which shall
be made if the defendant pleads rebuttal, weighed against that of the controller
identification of the traveler has contained a greater element of uncertainty
compared to if an identification document has been presented. Even one
relatively weak rebuttal can then result in the claim being dismissed
disapprove”.22
SL has stated that they can indeed use a still image in the form of a so-called snap
shot from the recorded material but that the same cannot be achieved with a still image
security regarding the identification as with moving image, because as well
the ticket inspector as the traveler moves. The situation when a surcharge is determined
is often crowded and messy with many fellow travelers on the move (for example in
subway environment or on the bus). A still image with available technology therefore comes
many times do not achieve the required quality and thus thwart safe
identification of the traveler. There are other circumstances that make identification difficult
for example travelers' clothing, such as caps, hats, etc. These circumstances can
often result in a still image not enabling identification. Using image recording as
supplemented with audio recording, it can also be determined which information is actually
was specified at the time of issuing the surcharge. Less privacy sensitive
therefore, according to SL, alternatives are not possible to achieve the purpose.
SL also uses pre-recording technology to ensure identity in connection with
ticket control (Purpose C), and the ticket controllers are instructed to video record
and sound on each occasion when a surcharge is issued. SL has stated that image and
audio recording makes it easier to establish the identity of the person served
the surcharge. SL has stated that the recording that takes place has three purposes; prevent
threatening situations in connection with ticket control, document occurred incidents for
Supreme Court case 3536-18 "The traveler without an ID document".
Supreme Court case 3536-18 "The traveler without an ID document". Point 9.
21 Ibid, paragraph 10.
22 Ibid, paragraph 13.
19
20

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

16(29)

to facilitate investigation afterwards, as well as ensure the identity of travelers who must
pay surcharge. The fact that the recording has three purposes means that the film can be longer
than solely to achieve the purpose of ensuring the identity of the person served
the surcharge.
IMY notes that the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c i
the data protection regulation means that the extent of personal data processing shall
be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation to its purpose. Further
it follows from the principle of purpose limitation in Article 5.1 b of the data protection regulation that
personal data must be collected for specific, explicitly stated and justified purposes
purpose.
SL has stated that recording is used for three purposes. That a certain technology, in the present
case cameras, used for several purposes by the person responsible for personal data means
not that personal data processing can be carried out in the same way for all purposes
for which a personal data controller processes personal data. The trial of in which
scope SL may process personal data in order to ensure the identity of a
traveler who is caught without a valid travel document must be based on that particular purpose. To
SL also processes personal data for the purpose of preventing and investigating incidents
therefore not assigned importance when assessing how extensive
the processing of personal data must be to ensure the identity of a certain person.
From the practice referred to by SL, it is clear that there is room for a ticket inspector to make a mistake
if a traveler shows a valid identity document, it must be considered a lot
limited.23 IMY therefore notes that SL could have taken other, smaller measures
privacy-infringing measures, than to activate recording of the person to be controlled
to ensure the identity of the person who is served with a surcharge when a
identity document has been presented. To use both image and sound recording and to
moreover, systematically using pre-recording technology goes far beyond what can
considered necessary to achieve the purpose of ensuring correct identification
when an identification document is presented.
IMY states that the need to process additional personal data for the purpose of
ensuring the identity of a traveler can only be considered necessary when a traveler
unable to prove their identity with an identification document. Nor when
identification document is missing, IMY deems it necessary to record with both
moving image as sound. From the data reported by SL, it appears that, out of approximately 30,000
checks, the issue is relatively few cases where the identity has not been able to be established.
For 2020, it was - although the pandemic has probably meant that it was the question of
significantly fewer cases than under normal conditions – the issue of 38 cases. During
In 2018, there were 291 cases that went to court. IMY does not consider it to be
demonstrated that moving image combined with sound recording and also use of
pre-recording technology has been necessary to achieve the purpose of ensuring a
correct identification of travelers who have not presented an identification document. IMY
considers that SL was reasonably able to use other less privacy-infringing methods
measures, such as a still image or similar, to ensure its identity
who has been charged a surcharge and lacks a valid identity document.
In summary, IMY therefore considers that the treatment is not necessary, as it is
is now performed, with image and sound recording as well as pre-recording technology, in connection with
ensuring a traveler's identity regardless of whether an identity document can be shown
up or not. IMY therefore notes that the personal data processing lacked legality
23

Supreme Court case 3536-18 "The traveler without an ID document". Clause 13.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

17(29)

basis according to Article 6.1 f and contradicts the principle of legality in Article 5.1 a i
data protection regulation.
IMY also states that the treatment has led to an excessively extensive
processing of personal data in relation to the purpose for which they are processed, both i
relation to those who are controlled and other registered persons who should not have to expect
themselves to be filmed and recorded with image and sound at ticket controls like themselves
are not involved in. Even children, who are seen as particularly worthy of protection, may come to
filmed. The surveillance has taken place in an environment that travelers are often dependent on
to get to work, school and recreation. The treatment has therefore also taken place in combat
with the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation.
Do the interests and rights of the data subjects weigh more heavily for purpose C?
As IMY stated above, the authority considers that SL's use of capitalized assets
image and sound recording as well as the use of pre-recording technology is not necessary for
to achieve purpose C, that is to ensure the identity in connection with
ticket control.
IMY also states in a balancing of interests that SL's use of
body cameras that record both image and sound and the company's use of
pre-recording technology means that all travelers who are in front of one
ticket inspectors who must issue a surcharge will be subject to both visual and
sound recording. Camera surveillance is generally considered a major intrusion into it
personal integrity, especially when it is conducted in a way that involves monitoring of
people who are only on their way to and from their work, school or are out in
recreational purposes and who in most cases have also paid their ticket.
As mentioned earlier, audio recording during camera surveillance is also typical
particularly sensitive to privacy. This is particularly true in the present case because
the sound recording takes place in a situation where travelers, especially those who are not subject to
ticket control, cannot reasonably expect the ticket controllers to record audio.
From the aforementioned guidelines, it is further clear that the person in charge of personal data must
evaluate the risks of infringement of the data subject's rights, and the decisive
the criterion is the intensity of the infringement of the data subject's rights and freedoms.
The intensity can be defined, among other things, based on the type of information that is collected
(information content), the extent (information density, spatial and geographical
extent), the number of affected data subjects, either as a specific number or as one
proportion of the population concerned, the situation in question, the actual of the data subject
interests, alternative methods and the nature and extent of the data. Important
balancing factors may be the size of the area being monitored and the number
data subjects being monitored. Examples include:
If a car camera is installed (e.g. to collect evidence in case
an accident) it is important to ensure that this camera is not constantly recording
the traffic, and the people who are near the road. Otherwise can
the interest in having video recordings as evidence of a pure traffic accident
theoretically occur would not justify the serious infringement of those
data subject's rights.24

See points 32-35 of Guidelines 3/2019 for the processing of personal data through video devices, version 2.0, adopted on
January 29, 2020.
24

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

18(29)

IMY believes that a parallel can be drawn between the example above and it
pre-recording technology that SL uses. The technology means that the image and sound recording
is stored one minute before a controller presses the button, which means that everyone who
are in the vicinity risk being recorded with both image and sound.
Although the pre-recording technology is meant to be used in threatening situations will
it in practice to be used also when recording in order to ensure the identity of
travelers who do not have a valid travel document. Similar to the example above, IMY notes that
it is important to ensure that any other person who happens to be in your vicinity
ticket inspector is not recorded constantly with image and sound.
Furthermore, IMY considers that the registered are in a crowded situation when exhibiting
of surcharge and that an activated image and sound recording of that situation entails
a major breach of privacy. The use of pre-recording technology that stores
material one minute back from when the controller presses the button and activates
the recording, also means, as mentioned above in connection with the assessment of
purposes A and B, that the large mass of travelers (in addition to the one served a
surcharge) is filmed completely without being aware of it, with both image and sound.
Against this must be weighed the fact that SL has shown that there are difficulties in establishing the identity
on the person who is served the surcharge and that there have been travelers who
provided another person's identity.
IMY believes, taking into account the great breach of privacy that filming entails
with image and especially with sound in the way that is now happening and with the use of
pre-recording technology, that SL's interest in ensuring the identity of the person served
the surcharge weighs relatively lightly in relation to the interests of the data subjects and
rights.
IMY states that SL's use of activated image recording as well as use of
pre-recording technology lacks a legal basis according to Article 6.1 f and that
the processing of personal data thus contravenes the principle of legality in Article 5.1 a.
IMY also notes that the pre-recording technique led to an overly extensive
processing of personal data in relation to the purposes for which they are processed and that
the processing therefore also took place in violation of the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1
c when the pre-recording technique is deemed to include many registered persons who should not need to
expect to be filmed and recorded with image and sound in threatening situations such as
they themselves are not involved in. The surveillance has also taken place in a milieu as travelers
many times depend on to get to work, school and recreation.
Summary assessment of purpose C
IMY notes that SL did indeed have a legitimate interest in making use of
body-worn cameras to ensure identity in connection with ticket control but
that they were able to use other less privacy-infringing measures, especially in the
cases where a traveler was actually able to present an identity document, and that
the processing of personal data was therefore not necessary. IMY considers that a still image or
similar could have been an acceptable measure to achieve the purpose.
IMY further considers that the interests and rights of the data subjects outweigh
the surveillance interest in connection with purpose C.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

19(29)

IMY therefore notes that SL's use of body-worn cameras, with use
of pre-recording technology, to ensure the identity of the person being served
additional fee means that SL processes personal data in violation of Article 6.1 f i
the data protection regulation when the processing is not necessary and the interest in privacy
weighs more heavily on those registered. SL's use of body-worn cameras for
purpose C thus lacks a legal basis. The violation is therefore contrary to the principle of
legality in Article 5.1 a.
The breach is deemed to include many registered users, who should not have to expect it
that activated image and sound recording takes place by them in situations that they are not themselves
involved in. The monitoring takes place in an environment that travelers are often dependent on
to get to work, school and recreation, for example. The treatment therefore also has
occurred in violation of the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c i
data protection regulation.
IMY also notes that the pre-recording technique led to an overly extensive
processing of personal data in relation to the purposes for which they are processed and that
this processing has also taken place in violation of the principle of data minimization in the article
5.1 c.

Information to data subjects (Article 13)
According to Article 5.1 a, personal data must be processed in a legal, correct and transparent manner i
relation to the registered.
It follows from reason 58 that the transparency principle requires that information that is addressed to
the public or to registered users is concise, easily accessible and comprehensible as well
designed in clear and simple language. Is it the question of information and
communication aimed at children should be designed in clear and simple language
which children can easily understand.
From reason 60 it appears that the registered person must be informed that processing is taking place and
the purpose of it. The data controller should provide any additional information that
required to ensure fair and open treatment, taking into account
the specific circumstances and context of the personal data processing.
Article 13 of the data protection regulation states which information must be provided
if personal data is collected from data subjects.
Article 12.1 of the data protection regulation states that the person in charge of personal data shall
take appropriate steps to provide to the data subject any information which
referred to in Articles 13 and 14, and that such information shall be provided in a concise,
clear and distinct, comprehensible and easily accessible form.
From article 12.7 of the data protection regulation, it appears that the information that must
provided, those registered in accordance with articles 13 and 14 may be provided
combined with standardized symbols to provide a clear, understandable, easy to read
and meaningful overview of the planned treatment.
There are no exceptions to Article 13, apart from the case that the data subject already has
about the information to be provided (Article 13.4).

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

20(29)

However, the personal data controller can provide information in different layers, where a sign can
form the first layer and information on a website or information in a brochure
can form the second layer of information. The most important information should generally
seen is given in the first layer.25
Article 13 states that SL must provide information when the personal data is obtained
from the registered. It is important here that the registered person must be able to create himself
an idea of which areas are subject to surveillance so that it registered
can either avoid being filmed or change their behavior.26
The image material
SL has initially stated that they provide abbreviated written information to
the persons who are served with a surcharge. The information appears on that receipt there
instructions are also available for how the payment of the additional fee should take place. The written one
the information contains a statement that; SL is responsible for personal data,
information about which categories of personal data are processed, information about
SL's purposes for personal data processing, information on storage time,
contact details for the data protection officer, information that the data protection officer can
is contacted in case the data subject wishes to exercise his rights and a reference to
SL's website and customer service where further information can be obtained. Furthermore, SL has
produced a document with answers to the most common questions about the ticket controls.
However, IMY notes that from SL's impact assessment of 21 November 2018
it appears that the pre-recording technique means that film recording starts before
information has been provided to the traveler.
IMY notes that when IMY's supervision began, it was only the person who
was given a surcharge that obtained the information that SL provided in its first
stock. Other people that SL filmed, e.g. other travelers who happened to be in
the coverage area of the camera or the travelers filmed on the basis that they
perceived as threatening, received no information. Although the majority of these
travelers could visit SL's website or call SL to get the information it is
not sufficient to consider that SL has provided the information in the sense referred to in
Article 13.
The fact that the recorded material is essentially deleted after one minute
(initially two minutes) is without significance in this assessment as it is missing
exception to provide information regarding short-term
personal data processing in the data protection regulation.
From SL's final opinion from 17 December 2020, it appears that i
the ticket inspectors' uniform now includes a so-called "badge" that informs that they
wearing a body camera. The size of the badge is seven centimeters in diameter. On the badge
a clear pictogram27 of a camera and the written information are visualized
"Body Camera". SL further states that according to Article 12.7 it receives
personal data controller provide information to the registered through
standardized symbols (including icons) to, among other things, provide a clear and
meaningful overview of the treatment. According to SL, the badge now constitutes a first layer

See paragraph 38 of the Article 29 Working Party (subsequently renamed the EDBP), Guidelines on Transparency under
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (reviewed and adopted 11 April 2018).
26 See point 113 of the EDPB's Guidelines 3/2019 for the processing of personal data through video devices, version 2.0,
adopted on 29 January 2020.
27 Iconic symbol.
25

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

21(29)

information about the personal data processing that takes place. Otherwise, information is provided as follows
as previously stated via receipt and on SL's website.
SL also refers to the Irish Data Protection Authority and its guidelines for
use of body-worn cameras or action cameras. According to these guidelines are stated
that the appropriate means of providing information to data subjects depends on the specific
the context and environment in which the data is collected. An assessment is thus required
what is appropriate in the individual case. The Irish Data Protection Authority
also exemplifies a badge on controllers' uniforms as a means of providing
the information.
IMY agrees with what SL referred to regarding the Irish data protection authority
position, that how information should be provided depends on the specific context
and the environment and what is appropriate from case to case and that a badge can be a way to
provide information. As can be seen from the guideline from the EDPB that IMY referred to earlier
so you have to make an assessment on a case-by-case basis and also see what type of
information collected, scope and number of affected data subjects. An important factor
is also the size of the area monitored and the number of registrants.
In the current case, it is a question of a significant number of controllers moving over one
large geographical area (SL's entire traffic network) and which films with both image and sound.
IMY therefore states that it is not enough to simply use a badge
with a pictogram of a camera with the text Kroppskamera/Body Camera as one
first layer for information submission in this case.
SL has stated that according to art 12.7 it appears that the person in charge of personal data may
provide information through standardized icons. It appears from Article 12.7
it, however, that the information to be provided to the registered in accordance with
article 13 and 14 may be provided combined (IMY's italics) with
standardized symbols to provide a clear, understandable, easy to read and meaningful
overview of the planned treatment.
According to recital 60, information may be provided to data subjects "combined" with
standardized symbols, thus enabling a multi-layered strategy. Symbols should
however, not purely to replace such information as is necessary for the registered
exercise of their rights, nor should they be used as a substitute for
the personal data controller must fulfill its obligations according to articles 13 and
14.28
IMY thus notes that Article 12.7 cannot be interpreted so that only a symbol, albeit
with the text Kroppskamera/Body Camera, can replace all the information that should
left in a first layer.
It is central that everyone who travels with SL gets knowledge that camera surveillance with
body-worn cameras may occur to give them the opportunity to choose how they
wish to complete their journey.
IMY states that even if the ticket inspectors have a badge on them that indicates
that body cameras are used risks the registered person being checked or who
behaves threateningly to see the badge (the information) only in connection with his becoming
Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (reviewed and adopted 11 April
2018), paragraph 50.
28

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

22(29)

filmed. For others who are caught by the image and sound recording there are very limited
opportunities to perceive that they are being filmed. The registered person then has no opportunity to
avoid the camera or change their behavior.
The warning symbols that are now on the ticket controllers should therefore
supplemented by warning signs that all registered users can read before they
enter the very area where they may be subject to surveillance with the body carrier
camera. IMY wants to emphasize that the registered should have the opportunity to decide if they want
enter an area where body-worn cameras are continuously used before entering
the area.
IMY states that SL has violated Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation by not
provide sufficient information about the imaging that takes place with them
the body-worn cameras and that SL also processed personal data in violation of
the transparency principle in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.
Sound recording
The SL not only records footage with the body-worn cameras, but also records
sound. SL states on the written information that is handed over to travelers that
additional fee has been added that film is recorded to prevent and document threats
situations. However, it does not appear that sound is being recorded. On SL's website under
under the heading "Ticket control and surcharge", SL stated initially only that they
treated "moving images and still images". On SL's website under the heading "So
do we process your personal data" it now appears that SL in connection with
ticket control, among other things, deals with moving images, sound (IMY's emphasis) and
still images. However, it does not appear from the badge, which is now layer one too
information, that sound is recorded.
The first layer of information should, as mentioned above, contain the information that
affect the data subject the most and inform about such treatment that could
come as a surprise to those registered.29
IMY states that sound recording is particularly sensitive to privacy, sound recording can
will affect the registered to a large extent, not least because SL does not
states that audio is recorded more than on its website, which may lead to those who
becomes the subject of the audio recording may say things that they would not have done if they had
knowledge of the sound recording. Furthermore, IMY states that travelers in SL's traffic network
cannot reasonably expect to be intercepted and that the audio recording is therefore
surprising to them. IMY states that it is particularly serious that information about sound
not left in the first layer of information because audio recording is considered as
particularly privacy sensitive.30
IMY thus states that SL has violated Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation by
to not provide sufficient information about the audio recording that takes place with them
the body-worn cameras and that SL also processed personal data in violation of
the transparency principle in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.
Summary assessment of information to the registered

Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (reviewed and adopted 11 April
2018), paragraph 36.
30 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 67
29

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

23(29)

IMY notes that SL initially only provided certain information to them
registrants who received a surcharge. Information that sound was recorded did not appear.
The IMY does not consider that it was clear enough to refer to film being shot on it
written information that SL provides to travelers who have been charged a surcharge.
SL's ticket inspectors now have a so-called badge on their uniform with a picture of one
camera and the text Body Camera. The badge is considered layer one.
IMY notes that the information provided on the badge is deficient and not
meets the requirements for the information to be contained in layer one.
IMY therefore states that SL has violated Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation by
not providing sufficient information about the image and sound recording that takes place.
IMY states that the camera surveillance concerns a large number of travelers who are dependent
of SL's traffic network to get to work, school and places for recreation. IMY
states that the pre-recording technique entails a very extensive
personal data processing including both image and sound recording of the large
the mass of travelers who neither behave threateningly nor violently towards
the ticket inspectors, have a valid driver's license and are not subject to any inspection either.
This is especially so as the controllers are instructed to have the camera on during their entire session
shift and thus may film all travelers who might pass
a controller. The need for information is therefore strongly felt. SL has
thereby also processed personal data in violation of the transparency principle in Article 5.1
a in the data protection regulation.

Choice of intervention
IMY has established that SL's ticket inspectors use body-worn cameras
with pre-recording technology to record sound and image in connection with ticket control for
to prevent threatening situations, document incidents and to control
the identity of travelers. During the course of supervision, the experiment with body cameras has become
permanently and the number of ticket inspectors using the body cameras has increased.
The area has also been expanded to cover SL's entire traffic network. The pre-recording technology has
meant that both adults and children have been able to be captured on film, albeit only briefly
if no material has been stored for longer than one minute.
The use of the body-worn cameras has had no legal basis, with exceptions
for the recording that takes place in connection with threatening situations, and has meant that
more personal data has been collected than was necessary for the purposes.
IMY considers that SL's processing of personal data in connection with the pre-recording
which takes place for one minute, and which means that everyone who can think of passing in front
the camera is filmed, even those who have not behaved threateningly or violently or received any
surcharge, has involved an extensive collection and processing of an excessively large
amount of personal data.
This means that SL has processed personal data in violation of Article 5.1 a and Article
5.1 c of the data protection regulation and the provision on legal basis for
personal data processing in Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Furthermore, IMY has established that SL has not provided information on
the processing of personal data to the registered to a sufficient extent. Partly by
omitting information about audio recording, partly by not informing the registered
in a clear manner before the registrants enter the area where the ticket inspectors

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

24(29)

records moving image and sound with the body-worn cameras. This means that SL also
has acted in violation of the transparency principle in Article 5.1 a and the provision on
information in Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.

Possible interventions
Article 58 of the data protection regulation states all the powers that IMY has. IMY
has a number of corrective powers in the event of violations of the data protection regulation
to be available according to article 58.2 a-j, including reprimand, injunction and
penalty fees.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that IMY in accordance with Article 83 shall
impose penalty charges in addition to or in lieu of other corrective measures which
referred to in Article 58(2), depending on the circumstances of each individual case. If there is a question
if a minor violation is received by the supervisory authority, according to reason 148 i
data protection regulation, issue a reprimand instead of imposing a penalty fee.

A penalty fee must be imposed
IMY has assessed that SL has violated articles 5.1 a and c, 6.1 f and 13 i
data protection regulation. These articles are covered by article 83.5 i
the data protection regulation, which means that the supervisory authority, according to article 83.2, shall
consider imposing administrative penalty charges in addition to, or instead of, others
corrective measures.
Against the background that large parts of the personal data processing as this supervision
covered has meant illegal processing of personal data concerning a large number
registered, that the processing has been going on for a long time and that SL has not been provided
sufficient information to the data subjects, it is not a question of a minor infringement.
SL must therefore be subject to an administrative penalty fee.

Determining the size of the penalty fee
General regulations
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must ensure that
the imposition of administrative penalty charges on a case-by-case basis is effective;
proportionate and dissuasive.
In article 83.2 of the data protection regulation, factors to be taken into account are stated
determining the size of the penalty fee. These factors include a)
the nature, severity and duration of the infringement, f) the degree of cooperation with
the supervisory authority to address the violation and reduce it
potential negative effects g) the categories of personal data covered
the violation, h) the manner in which the violation came to the attention of the supervisory authority
knowledge, especially whether and to what extent the personal data controller
reported the violation and k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor
which is applicable to the circumstances of the case.
Violations of articles 5, 6 and 13 are to be considered serious and covered by it
higher penalty fee according to Article 83.5 of the Data Protection Regulation. This means that
the amount of the penalty fee can amount to EUR 20,000,000, or if the object of supervision is

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

25(29)

a company, up to 4% of the total annual turnover in the previous financial year,
depending on which value is the highest.
It follows from Article 4.18 of the data protection regulation that a company is a physical or legal entity
person who conducts economic activity, regardless of its legal form, which
includes partnerships or associations that regularly carry on financial
Operation. To be able to impose penalty charges that are effective, proportionate and
dissuasive, the company definition shall mean that a company shall be deemed to be one
economic unit which may consist of a parent company and all its subsidiaries.31
Reason 150 in the data protection regulation states, among other things, that if administrative
penalty charges are imposed on a company, a company should be considered a company in that sense
as referred to in Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU.
This means that the assessment of what constitutes a company must be based on
competition law definitions. The rules for group liability in the EU
competition law revolves around the concept of economic unity. A parent company and
a subsidiary is considered part of the same economic unit when the parent company
exercises decisive influence over the subsidiary. The decisive influence (i.e.
the control) can be achieved either by ownership or by agreement.
When determining the maximum amount for the sanction fee, IMY is based on SL's
annual report from the previous budget year.32 From SL's annual report from the year 2020
it appears that SL is the parent company of a group where SL is the sole owner of the companies
SL Älvsjö AB, AB SL Finans and Waxholms Ångfartygs AB.
IMY is based on SL's turnover for the group when determining the penalty fee
size. The turnover for the SL group in 2020 amounted to SEK 20,981,000,000.
The maximum sanction amount that SL can be imposed is thus SEK 839,240,000,
which corresponds to four percent of SL's turnover.
SL has stated that its operations have been particularly vulnerable due to the covid 19 pandemic. SL has further stated that the company suffered large losses during the year 2020. SL's
ticket revenue in 2019 amounted to SEK 8,750,000,000 and amounts to and including November
2020 to SEK 5,068,000,000. Forecasted ticket revenue for the whole of 2020 amounts to
SEK 5,632,000,000, which means that the ticket revenue for the whole year decreased by
SEK 3,118,000,000 compared to the previous year. SL believes that these economic
circumstances shall constitute mitigating circumstances if a penalty fee shall
is issued.
SL further states that Aktiebolaget Storstockholms Lokaltrafik is owned by Region Stockholm
and thus constitute a publicly owned company. As can be seen from the annual reports from 2018
and 2019 as SL attached, the total revenues consist of 44 percent
operating contribution. The operating grant refers to the tax financing that SL
receives for conducting public transport operations. From the annual report from the year 2020
the tax financing rate is stated to be 54.4%. The operating contribution does not refer to
turnover in the form of sold goods and services but is a contribution from Region Stockholm
for cost coverage in AB SL. According to the Act (1977:67) on surcharge in collectives
passenger traffic, the size of the fees may not exceed the additional costs incurred by SL
for the control activities and according to the same law, financial profits must not be added to SL
Article 29 Working Group, Guidelines for the Application and Determination of Administrative Penalty Fees in accordance
with Regulation 2016/679 (the WP253 Guidelines), p. 6
32 SL's annual report 2020.
31

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

26(29)

through the withdrawal of the additional fees. The issuance of the additional fees is thus not
a profitable business for SL.
Due to the fact that the issuance is not profitable for SL, the ticket checks involve i
in reality only costs for SL to implement. However, SL believes that there is one
interest in carrying out these checks because it increases the willingness to pay in public transport.
Assessment of the violations
IMY has found three violations. IMY assesses that the three violations do not
constitute connected treatments and that a penalty fee must therefore be given per
violation.
SL's use of body-worn cameras to prevent and document threats and
violence (purposes A and B)
With regard to the severity of the violation, IMY states that the treatment that took place
to prevent and document threats and violence has largely been legal (den
treatment that took place under ongoing threats and violence).
However, the violation in this part consists of SL's excessive use of
pre-recording technique through which they continuously recorded with image and sound, during
as short as one minute. The recording has not only covered the people who acted
menacingly, but also all other travelers who happen to appear in the camera's view
recording area, which should not have to expect to be recorded with image and
sound.
This is a serious violation because it is a public place which
covers SL's entire traffic network. It has involved extensive monitoring of a large
number of travelers, including children, who depend on SL's transport network to get to work,
school and places for recreation. The treatment has also included recording of
sound which is a particularly privacy-sensitive treatment and which has resulted in a
extensive breach of privacy for individuals.
IMY also states that SL had not started its use of body-worn cameras
when the inspection began without SL coming to do so shortly afterwards. SL also extended
the use of body-worn cameras during surveillance to finally
make the treatment permanent. SL has also expanded its use of body worn
cameras to cover not only Stockholm's subway but SL's entire traffic network and
all types of traffic. IMY believes that this, regardless of the length of time for supervision, is aggravating
circumstances.
At the same time, IMY states that SL's personal data processing has taken place for those entitled
purpose, that there was an actual threat against the ticket inspectors and that
the surveillance has contributed to increasing the safety of the controllers in their daily work
working environment. The filming that took place with the pre-recording technique has only been stored locally
in the cameras unless the controllers activated the recording manually. The recorded
the material has also been limited to a few people. Furthermore, SL has under
the course of supervision has taken certain measures such as reducing the time for the pre-recording from
two minutes to one minute. IMY considers these to be mitigating circumstances.
When determining the amount of the penalty fee, IMY has taken into account that SL did not use himself
of the body-worn cameras for profit and that SL's ticket revenue according to that information
reported in the case decreased in 2020.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

27(29)

IMY has established that SL lacked a legal basis according to Article 6.1 f and that SL's
treatment with pre-recording technology for as long as one minute is against
the principle of legality and the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 a and c.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the penalty fee of SEK 4,000,000 for the violation in this part.
SL's use of body cameras to ensure the identity of travelers who
must pay surcharge (purpose C)
Also the treatment that took place to ensure the identity of the person served
surcharge has taken place with pre-recording technology and included personal data in as well
image as sound. Activated recording has also been used here.
IMY considers that the registered person is in a difficult situation when a surcharge is imposed
out, which makes the violation serious. To continuously use recording with sound and
image with body-worn cameras is particularly serious when ID has been presented
of the controlled. The number of controls is estimated to be large. From SL's information
it appears that approx. 30,000 additional fees are issued annually and that the majority of them
checked presents an identity document.
That SL has recorded images and sounds from other travelers in SL's traffic network, in addition to those who
if a surcharge is imposed, constitutes extensive monitoring of a large number of travelers
who depend on SL's transport network to get to work, school and places for
recreation. IMY states that the recording of image and sound in connection with
issuance of surcharge has been illegal and goes far beyond what has been assessed to be
necessary for the purpose. SL could have taken other, less privacy-infringing actions
measures to achieve the purpose. Against this background, IMY considers that it is a
serious violation.
IMY notes the same aggravating and mitigating circumstances for purpose C
as stated above regarding purposes A and B.
IMY has established that SL lacked a legal basis according to Article 6.1 f and that SL's
processing is contrary to the principle of legality and the principle of data minimization i
article 5.1 a and c of the data protection regulation.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the penalty fee of SEK 8,000,000 for the violation in this part.
Information for those registered
The requirements for information to data subjects according to the data protection regulation are extensive.
Access to information is crucial for data subjects to be able to choose how they want
act in a given situation. Access is also crucial for registered users to
be able to assert some of their rights according to the data protection regulation.
SL's shortcomings in the provision of information to the registered have mainly
meant that the registered did not receive any information that camera surveillance with
body cameras may occur before they have been filmed by SL. They have

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

28(29)

thereby not having the opportunity to choose whether they still wish to carry out the journey in SL's
traffic network or refrain.
Registrants who have been controlled or who have behaved threateningly have been able to perceive
the information in the first layer, the controllers' badge, only in connection with their becoming
filmed. There is a complete lack of information aimed at other registered users, who are not
themselves controlled or participated in a threatening situation, but who were nevertheless caught by
the image and sound recording. Furthermore, SL has not provided specific information about
that sound has been recorded even though it is a particularly privacy-sensitive treatment.
The lack of information that body-worn camera surveillance may be coming
to take place concerns a large number of travelers who depend on SL's transport network to get to
work, school and places for recreation. Even children, who are seen as particularly worthy of protection,
may be filmed. IMY considers this to be a serious violation, esp
as that the great mass of travelers who only happened to be in
the ticket controller's catchment area has not received any information that SL
uses body-worn cameras.
SL has now equipped the controllers with a so-called badge on the uniform, an action
which according to IMY shows that SL had an ambition to take measures to reduce
breach of privacy and comply with the rules in the data protection regulation.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the penalty fee of SEK 4,000,000 for the violation in this part.
Summary
IMY assesses based on an overall assessment that SL must pay an administrative
sanction fee of a total of SEK 16,000,000 for the violations of articles 5,
6 and 13 of the data protection regulation.
This decision has been taken by the general manager Lena Lindgren Schelin after a presentation
by lawyer Jeanette Bladh Gustafson. In the final processing also has
unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg and lawyer Jenny Bård participated. During
the proceedings have also been attended by the Chief Justice David Törngren.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2021-06-21 (This is an electronic signature)
Appendix
Information on payment of penalty fee
Copy to
SL's data protection officer: dataskyddsombudet@sl.se

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-21487
Date: 2021-06-21

29(29)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

