 

Registered
Coöperatie VGZ U.A.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors
Mr R. Kliphuis
PO Box 5040
6802 EA ARNHEM

 

 

Date
February 15, 2018
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
070 8888 500
 

 
Subject
Order subject to periodic penalty payments and final findings
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Dear Mr Cliffhouse,
 
Below you will find the decision of the Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) to impose an order under
periodic penalty payment to Coöperatie VGZ U.A. (VGZ). This decision is part of the new decision of
today on the objection of Civil Rights Association Vrijbit (Vrijbit). This new decision on objection is
taken after the investigation carried out by the AP in response to the interim ruling of the
Midden Nederland District Court (the District Court) of 7 July 2017, ECLI:NL:RBMNE:2017:3421 (the
interim statement). This case started with an enforcement request that Vrijbit submitted to the Board
protection of personal data (CBP).
 
Vrijbit's enforcement request relates to the way in which Dutch health insurers apply
currently process personal data relating to health. According to Vrijbit, this method is in
conflict with the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp), the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union (the Charter) and Article 8 of the Convention on Human and Human Rights
fundamental freedoms (ECHR). In summary, Vrijbit lays the basis for this that health insurers still
always work in accordance with the Code of Conduct for the Processing of Personal Data Health Insurers (the code of conduct),
while the AP has withheld its approval of that code of conduct as a result of a
judgment of the court of Amsterdam from 2013.1
 
The course of the procedure between Vrijbit and the AP, the legal framework, the ruling of the
District Court of Amsterdam, the interim ruling, the original decision on the objection of 1 June 2016, the
design of the investigation and the course of the investigation are set out in the new decision op
objection. The AP refers to this for the sake of brevity.

                                                                        
1 Court of Amsterdam 13 November 2013, ECLI:NL:RBAMS:2013:7480.

  

 

1



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

1

2

3

4

 
 
Findings
The AP's findings are appended to this decision to impose the order subject to periodic penalty payments
attached. First of all, the code of conduct and the privacy policy applied by VGZ are discussed
order (1). Subsequently, the aspects digital declaration without diagnosis information (2),
purpose limitation (3), unauthorized access to personal data (4), processors (5) and medical
professional secrecy (6).
  
In its findings, the AP concludes that VGZ violates Article 13 of the Wbp. The AP has in
observed the following in that context:

- VGZ has organized its corporate culture in such a way that only employees have access

may have access to personal data concerning health insofar as this is necessary
for the purpose for which the employees process the personal data. So is, among other things
established by VGZ that marketing employees do not store any personal data concerning the
handle health.

- However, the AP's investigation shows that a number of employees of the Customer and

Brand partners of VGZ actually have access to personal data concerning health,
while this is not necessary for their work. Being able to consult
personal data can be regarded as the
processing of personal data.

- VGZ therefore does not have sufficient technical means to guarantee this

employees have not had access to personal data that is not necessary for
the purpose for which they are processed. In this context, the AP further points out that VGZ has no
keeps log files about access to special personal data.

- The foregoing leads to the conclusion that VGZ does not have suitable technological facilities

measures as referred to in Article 13 of the Wbp;

- In the documents submitted, the AP has indicated how a marketing campaign at VGZ

is carried out, however, no indications were found for the conclusion that
marketing employees actually process personal data concerning health
for a marketing campaign. However, this does not alter the conclusion that Article 13 of the Wbp is
violated, because the technological measures taken by VGZ are not appropriate.

 
Duty of principle to enforce
From Article 65 of the Wbp, viewed in conjunction with Article 5:32, first paragraph, of the General Act
administrative law (Awb) follows that the AP is authorized to impose an order subject to periodic penalty payments in the event of a violation
of Article 13 of the Wbp.
Pursuant to Article 5:2, first paragraph, opening words and under b, of the Awb, the order subject to periodic penalty payments is aimed at
ending the established violation and preventing recurrence.
  
In view of the public interest served by enforcement, the AP will, in the event of a violation of
a statutory provision, as a rule, must make use of its enforcement powers.
Special circumstances in connection with which enforcement action must be waived
not occur in this case.
 

 

 

2/7



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
Order subject to periodic penalty payments and grace period
The AP orders VGZ to set up its system in such a way that unauthorized access to
personal data is prevented.
 

5

The authorizations and viewing roles used by VGZ for logical access security

To ensure adequate technological control systems on the basis of which it guarantees

To this end, it must in any case:
1.
systems of the Customer and Brand Partners department need to be adjusted, more
specifically for the employees listed in Confidential Annex 1. These authorizations and
consultation roles of the aforementioned VGZ employees must be adjusted in such a way that
that these employees actually no longer have access to personal data, including
personal data concerning health, when the processing of this personal data
not necessary for their work.
2.
that employees only have access to special personal data, including
personal data concerning health, when such access is necessary for the
activities of an employee. In any case, this concerns logging of access and
changes, so that - whether or not as a result of incidents - it can be checked whether
employees have gained access while access to this data is not necessary
for their activities.
3.
takes place at least once every six months – by the Data Protection Officer and
the Compliance officer(s) to the management showing whether any incidents have occurred and so on
yes, what measures have been taken:
a.
b.

with regard to what is stated under 1;
with regard to what is stated under 2.

VGZ must also provide periodic written feedback – which is at least

6

7

 
-benefit period and penalty amount with regard to parts 2 and 3b
In view of what VGZ has put forward about its wish to set up its system in such a way that
technically and largely automated it is ensured that employees do not have access to more
personal data than is necessary for their work, the AP connects to part 2 and
part 3b of this charge has a grace period ending December 31, 2018.
  
If VGZ does not meet the obligation before the end of the beneficiary period referred to under 6,
she forfeits a penalty. The AP sets the amount of this penalty at an amount of
€ 150,000.00 for every (whole) week, after the last day of the set term, on which VGZ
fails to comply with part 2 and part 3b of the order, up to a maximum of € 750,000.00.
Considering the fact that the penalty should be an incentive to comply with the order, the amount of the turnover
of VGZ, the large number of insured persons and the seriousness of the violation, the AP considers it to be aware of this
coercion appropriate.
 
 
 

 

 

3/7



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
-benefit period and amount of penalty with regard to parts 1 and 3a
With regard to part 1. of this burden, the AP is of the opinion that with its implementation less
efforts are involved. The AP therefore connects to part 1 and part 3a of the load one
beneficiary period ending May 26, 2018.
  
If VGZ does not meet the obligation before the end of the beneficiary period referred to under 8,
she forfeits a penalty. The AP sets the amount of this penalty at an amount of € 50,000.00
for each (whole) week, after the last day of the set term, on which VGZ fails to comply
part 1 and part 3a of the burden, up to a maximum of € 250,000.00.
Considering the fact that the penalty should be an incentive to comply with the order, the amount of the turnover
of VGZ, the large number of insured persons and the seriousness of the violation, the AP considers it to be aware of this
coercion appropriate.
 
-interim report
The AP advises VGZ to make a statement once per quarter on the basis of a concrete schedule
inform the AP about the progress of the measures it is taking to comply with the
imposed load.
 
-post-check
The AP requests VGZ to provide documentary evidence to the AP in good time before the end of the beneficiary period
evidencing that the payment has been made on time and in full. Timely submission of
documentary evidence does not alter the fact that the AP is authorized to conduct an investigation, including an investigation
on site, if appropriate.
 
Explanation of the burden
The AP notes the following by way of explanation.
 
In the document 'CBP Guidelines. Security of personal data' (Stcrt. 2013, 5174, hereinafter also: de
guidelines) the question of when security measures are 'appropriate' in the sense of
Article 13 of the Wbp. The guidelines make it clear that for that assessment first of all
the reliability requirements to be set must be taken into account. This must be based on the nature of
the data to be protected is determined what an appropriate level of protection is. The nature of the
personal data is important here. Also the amount of processed personal data per person and
the purpose for which the personal data are processed must be taken into account.
  
In this case it concerns the processing of data concerning health, being special
personal data. This means that the consequences of an unlawful processing of that data,
can be serious for those involved. As a result, for the processing of personal data
VGZ requires a high level of security.
  
After the reliability requirements have been established, the responsible party must make appropriate
take security measures that guarantee that the reliability requirements are met, so
is in the guidelines. Security standards provide guidance when actually meeting

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

 

 

4/7



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

16

17

18

19

 
appropriate measures to cover the risks. A very widely used security standard is the
Code for Information Security, NEN-ISO/IEC 27002+C1(2014)+C2 (2015). Here are specifics
security measures included. Security standards provide guidance during the actual encounter
of appropriate measures to cover the risks. What security standards for a particular
processing are relevant and which security measures based on these security standards
should be taken, however, must be determined on a case-by-case basis.
  
The Code for Information Security mentions the following relevant measures in this context:
9.4.1 Information Access Restrictions
Access to information and system functions of applications should be restricted in accordance with it
access security policy.
12.4.1 Record events
Event logs that record user activities, exceptions, and information security events
record, should be made, kept and regularly reviewed.
 
Irrespective of the design of the access security policy, the nature of the
personal data that a health insurer such as VGZ processes and the extent of that processing, that ten
at least log files are kept in such a way that at least a reactive check of
the log files is possible. In particular, the AP is concerned that actions in the form of
consultations or changes in the systems that employees are authorized to access
(special) personal data are not logged, as a result of which access to that is controlled
data – for example as a result of incidents – is currently not possible.
 
As noted above, the AP found during the investigation that a number of employees
of the Customer and Brand Partners department have authorizations that give access to personal data
concerning health, while this is not necessary for their work. VGZ has in her
response to the intention to enforce acknowledged the correctness of this finding. VGZ has stated that
it has taken corrective measures, as a result of which the wrongful access has ended. Already
because this statement is not supported by evidence, the AP sees no reason to waive this point
of enforcement.
  
VGZ has also put forward that the AP in its provisional findings wrongly made a
has made a link between logging and preventing unauthorized access to
personal data. In response to this, the AP points out the following. The AP already has this under 17
explained that and why keeping log files for a health insurer such as VGZ is a
necessary measure to ensure an appropriate level of security. This applies all the more to VGZ,
now that she has an access security policy that involves working with an authorization matrix
per officer. This entails the risk that the authorizations actually granted will not be valid over time
no longer correspond to the authorizations that are strictly necessary for the activities of the
relevant employee.
Although the AP has not established that other VGZ employees have authorizations and
roles that enable more far-reaching access to (special) personal data than necessary
however, the AP VGZ has recommended that the authorization policy be developed in such a way that if

 

 

5/7



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The main rule is that for each function (group) it is determined which roles and authorizations are to be exercised
of that function are necessary.
  

20 With regard to the beneficiary period, VGZ has proposed that the necessary

measures to meet the burden. VGZ has stated that it is dependent on this
third parties. VGZ has not made this clear on the basis of a substantiated planning. Seen
the seriousness of the violation and the measures to be taken in the opinion of the AP, the AP deems the above
periods stated under 6 and 8 are appropriate and reasonable.
 
What VGZ put forward on this point in its response to the intention to enforce
In view of the foregoing, this is no reason for the AP to refrain from taking enforcement action.

21

 

 

6/7



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
For the information of the parties

22 Today's decision on objection with reference z2016-12335 and the present decision imposing

the order subject to periodic penalty payments and together form the AP's decision on Vrijbit's objection. Against this
decision is subject to appeal to the court.
 
A copy of this letter will be sent to the Data Protection Officer of
VGZ, [CONFIDENTIAL].
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
e.g.
 
Mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remedy
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decision pursuant to the General Administrative Law Act to file a notice of appeal with the court
Central Netherlands, where this procedure is already pending. You must enclose a copy of this decision
send. Submitting a notice of appeal does not suspend the operation of this decision.
 

 

 

7/7

