
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08.04.2020
                                Virus meets virus – IT security in times of a pandemic©
                            wk1003mike / shutterstock.comAttacks on the IT systems of hospitals and other institutions such as universities and city governments have clearly demonstrated the risks of cyber attacks on healthcare structures. This also applies in the current phase of the corona pandemic, as shown by an incident in the Czech Republic in which a hospital was again paralyzed by a corresponding attack.
"Appropriate IT security is particularly important in times of crisis, so it pays off if you are already well prepared in quieter times," says the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman. “We know that the health care system in general and hospitals in particular are currently being put under exceptional strain by the corona pandemic. However, this should not mean that safety aspects are neglected. Current incidents such as the one in the Czech Republic show that weak points are also exploited and cyber attacks on hospitals take place in exceptional situations," said the state representative. “Especially when quick solutions are important in order to be able to act promptly and appropriately, they should be reliable and secure. This applies to data security as well as data protection. However, we have the impression that digitization solutions are currently being introduced in many places, which are being implemented under great time pressure and have an improvisational character. As understandable as this may be, it is problematic if these provisional arrangements outlast the current acute situation. It is then only a matter of time before threats other than Corona burden the healthcare system.”
After similar incidents in the past year, a "round table IT security hospitals" was set up in Rhineland-Palatinate, which in the meantime, with the participation of the state commissioner, has developed proposals for higher-level measures and recommendations for the hospitals in order to support them in preventing attacks on computer systems counteract or mitigate their consequences. "Together with the industry-specific security standard for information security in hospitals, the recommendations are an important building block for supporting hospitals in the area of information security," says Prof. Kugelmann. "This also applies in times of a pandemic, in which IT structures are more vulnerable than in normal times times.”
More informationMeasures and recommendations of the project group "Round Table IT Security Hospitals"German Hospital Society: Industry-specific security standard for healthcare in hospitalsNotes from the LfDI on IT security and data protection in hospitals
                                return
                            



