 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  19/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Denmark regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the DK SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 5 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 6 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 6 

COMMUNICATION WITH THE DK SA ............................................................................... 7 

LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................. 7 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................... 7 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................... 8 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

                                                           
1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

Adopted  

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Danish Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “DK SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 27th May 2020.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

2. 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be  in line with the eight  areas outlined by the  Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

Adopted  

4 

4. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).  Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

5. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

6.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

DK SA to take further action.  

7. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the DK SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the DK SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

8. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

9. 

10. 

11. 

 
The Board encourages the DK SA to improve the layout and the format throughout the entire draft 
accreditation requirements submitted to the Board.  

In  addition,  for  the  sake  of  clarity,  the  Board  encourages  the  DK  SA  to  explicitly  refer  at  the  first 
paragraph of the introduction of the draft accreditation requirements to the 01/2019 EDPB Guidelines 
with regard to the claim that a monitoring body is obligatory in a private sector Codes of Conduct.  

The Board encourages the DK SA to include either in the draft accreditation requirements or in the 
complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of the information or documents that 
applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation.  

 

INDEPENDENCE 

12.  With regard to legal and decision-making procedures of the DK SA draft accreditation requirements 
(section 1.1), the Board acknowledges the impartiality of the monitoring body from the code members, 

Adopted  

5 

the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies. However, the Board is of the opinion that 
these requirements should be  further specified, particularly with regard to any legal and economic 
links  that may  exist  between  the  monitoring  body  and  the  code  owner  or  code  members.  For  this 
reason, the Board encourages the DK SA to amend this paragraph accordingly.  

13.  Regarding the internal monitoring bodies, the DK SA’s draft accreditation requirements provides that 
the evidence of the monitoring body’s independency may be demonstrated by “a description of the 
operation  of  any  committees,  separate  department  or  personnel  that  may  be  involved  with  the 
monitoring body” (section 1.1.5 (h)). However the Board notices that such evidence may not suffice to 
demonstrate  independence,  taking  into  consideration  the  specific  risks  for  independence  that  are 
raised in case of internal monitoring bodies. In view of the above, the Board encourages the DK SA to 
add more concrete examples of appropriate evidence, such as information barriers, separate reporting 
structures.  The  Board  is  aware  of  the  fact  that  such  examples  of  evidence  are  provided  in  the 
subsequent section 1.3.5 of the draft accreditation requirements. The Board encourages the DK SA to 
add such examples at the section 1.1.5 for reasons of clarity and consistency.  

14.  With regard to the financial independence of DK SA draft accreditation requirements (section 1.2), the 
Board  considers  that  the  financial  independence  should  address  the  boundary  conditions  that 
determine  the  concrete  requirements  for  financial  independence  and  sufficient  resources.  Such 
requirements include the number, size and complexity of the code members (as monitored entities), 
the nature and scope of their activities (which are the subject of the code) and the risk(s) associated 
with  the  processing  operation(s).  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  DK  SA  to  redraft  the 
requirements accordingly. 

15.  With regard to monitoring body’s responsibility for its decisions regarding the monitoring activities, 
the  DK  SA  provided  in  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  (section  1.3.4)  “The  personnel  of  the 
monitoring body can be held responsible for their activity in accordance with the Danish penal law”. 
The Board encourages the DK SA to refer in general to the Danish law instead of referring only to the 
penal law.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

16. 

The  Board  recognizes  that  one  of  the  biggest  risks  related  to  the  monitoring  body  is  the  risk  of 
impartiality. The Board notes that such risk may arise not only from providing services to the code 
members but also from a wide range of activities carried out by the monitoring body vis-à-vis code 
owners (especially in the situation where the monitoring body is an internal one) or other relevant 
bodies of the sector concerned. In this context, the Board encourages the DK SA to provide additional 
clarifications and examples of situations where there is not conflict of interest. Examples could include, 
among  others,  services,  which  are  purely  administrative  or  organisational  assistance  or  support 
activities which have no influence on the impartiality of the monitoring body.  

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

17.  With regard to the established procedures and structures, the EDPB notes that section 4.1 of the DK 
SA draft requirements provides that “Resources should be proportionate to the expected size of code 
members, as well as the complexity of degree of risk of the relevant data processing and the expected 
received complaints”. The Board encourages the DK SA, in addition to the “expected size of the code 
members” to add the number of the code members as well for consistency with the section 4.8 of the 
draft accreditation requirements.  

Adopted  

6 

 

18.  Regarding  section  4.10  of  DK  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  that  the 
monitoring body’s decisions, or general information thereof, shall be made publicly available in line 
with  its  complaints  handing  procedure.  Without  prejudice  to  national  legislation,  the  Board 
encourages the DK SA to amend this requirement so that decisions are published when they relate to 
repeated and/or serious violations, such as the ones that could lead to the suspension or exclusion of 
the controller or processor concerned from the code, otherwise publication of summaries of decisions 
or  statistical  data  should  be  considered  adequate.  However,  data  subjects  should,  in  any  case,  be 
informed  about  the  status  and  outcome  of  their  individual  complaints,  so  that  the  transparency 
requirements of this procedure are respected. 

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE DK SA 

19.  With respect to the communication with the DK SA (section 6.1), it is stated that “the monitoring body 
must set out clear reporting mechanisms to allow for reporting without undue delay of any repeated 
or serious infringements (which would result in severe actions such as suspensions or exclusion from 
the code) issued by the monitoring body to the Danish DPA”. The Board welcomes the fact that not all 
the  complaint  and  not  every  single  action,  audit,  review or  investigation vis-à-vis  code  members  is 
communicated to the DK SA, but only the serious cases. However, the Board recommends the DK SA 
to appropriately add a requirement regarding the reporting of non-serious cases. An example of such 
requirement could be that the monitoring body should be able to provide relevant information of its 
action upon DK SA’s request.  

  LEGAL STATUS 

20.  According  to section  8 of  the  DK  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  “the  monitoring  body  must 
demonstrate that it has an appropriate standing to carry out its role under Article 41 (4) of the GDPR 
and that it is capable of being fined cf. Article 83 (4)(c) of the GDPR and Paragraph 41 (1)(3) of the 
Danish  Data  Protection  Act  (“Databeskyttelsesloven”)  and  when  relevant  Paragraph  41  (6)  of  the 
Danish Data Protection Act.”. The Board is of the opinion that, financial capacity shall not prevent small 
or medium monitoring bodies from being accredited. It is enough to have a legal capability of being 
fined. Therefore the Board encourages the DK SA to either delete this requirement or to soften the 
wording and refer to the monitoring body’s responsibilities in general and not put an emphasis on the 
fines. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  DK  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

21.  Regarding communication with the DK SA the Board recommends that the DK SA: 

1.  amends section 6.1 so to reflect that not all the cases should be communicated to the DK SA. 
The  Board welcomes  the  fact  that  not  all  the  complaint  and  not  every  single action,  audit, 
review or investigation vis-à-vis code members is communicated to the DK SA, but only the 
serious cases. However, the DK SA should add a requirement regarding the reporting of non-
serious cases.  

 

Adopted  

7 

  FINAL REMARKS 

22. 

This  opinion  is  addressed to  the  Danish  supervisory authority  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 
 

23.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the DK SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after  receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  
 
The DK SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

24. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  

8 

