DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 
 

 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

To:  Fortis Insolvency Limited  
 

 

 

 

Of:  683-687, Wilmslow Road, Didsbury, Manchester M20 6RE 

   

 

 

 

 

 

1.

2.

3.

4.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to
issue Fortis Insolvency Limited (“FIL”) with an enforcement notice
under section 40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is
being issued because of a serious contravention of Regulation 22 of the
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003
(“PECR”).

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision.

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIL, whose registered office address is given above (Companies House
Registration Number: 09870591) is the organisation stated in this
notice to have transmitted unsolicited communications by means of
 
electronic mail to individual subscribers for the purposes of direct
marketing contrary to regulation 22 of PECR.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 22 of PECR states:

 

 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

“(1) This 
 

regulation  applies 
 

  
 
communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail 
 
subscribers. 
 

transmission  of  unsolicited 
 
individual 
 

 
to 
 

to 
 
 

the 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

 
 

(2)  Except  in  the  circumstances  referred  to  in  paragraph  (3),  a  person 
 
shall neither transmit, nor instigate the transmission of, unsolicited 
 
communications  for  the  purposes  of  direct  marketing  by  means  of 
 
electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 
 
previously  notified  the  sender  that  he  consents  for  the  time  being 
 
to such communications  being  sent  by,  or  at the instigation  of, the 
 
sender. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3)  A  person  may  send  or  instigate  the  sending  of  electronic  mail  for 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the purposes of direct marketing where— 
  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
   

(a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 
 

 
of that electronic mail in the course of the sale or 
 
negotiations for the sale of a product or service to that 
 
recipient; 
 
 
 
products and services only; and 
 
   
  

(b) the direct marketing is in respect of that person’s similar 
 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 
 
 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 
 
the refusal) the use of his contact details for the purposes 
 
of such direct marketing, at the time that the details were 
 
initially collected, and, where he did not initially refuse the 
 
use of the details, at the time of each subsequent 
 
communication. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention of 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph (2).” 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 
 
marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 
 
or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 
5. 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
 
PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6. 
 

7. 
 

8. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

   
 

 
 
 
   
 

Consent in PECR, between 29 March 2019 and 31 December 2020, was 
 
defined by reference to the concept of consent in Regulation 2016/679 
 
(“the GDPR”): regulation 8(2) of the Data Protection, Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019. Article 4(11) of the GDPR sets out the following definition: 
 
“‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, specific, 
 
informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by 
 
which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 
 
signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him 
 
or her”. 
  
 
From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR  has been defined by reference 
 
to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 
 
 
the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 
 
 
Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 
 
definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 
 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 
 
wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 
 
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 
 
to him or her”. 
 
 
Recital  32  of  the  UK  GDPR  materially  states  that  “When  the  processing 
 
has  multiple  purposes,  consent  should  be  given  for  all of  them”.  Recital 
 

   
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
 
April 2016 (“GDPR”)  as it forms part of the  law  of England and  Wales, Scotland  and  Northern Ireland  by virtue 
 
  
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42 materially provides that “For consent to be informed, the data subject 
 
should  be  aware  at  least  of  the  identity  of  the  controller”.  Recital  43 
 
materially  states  that  “Consent  is  presumed  not  to  be  freely  given  if  it 
 
does  not  allow  separate  consent  to  be  given  to  different  personal  data 
 
processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case”. 
 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. 
 

 

10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
   
 

 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 
 
voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 
 
communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 
 
 
recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 
 
 
includes messages sent using a short message service”. 
 

   
 

 
   

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11. 
 

 

12.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercisable by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and 
 
 
extended for the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.  Section 40(1)(a) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   
 

provides that if the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has 
 
contravened or is contravening any of the requirements of the 
 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring 
 
him to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to 
 
refrain from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps 
 
as are so specified. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
14.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
 
rights. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The contravention 
 
 

16.  The Commissioner finds that FIL contravened regulation 22 of PECR. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
18.  The Commissioner finds that between 26 July 2020 and 26 July 2021 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there were 527,481 direct marketing SMS messages received by 
 
subscribers. The Commissioner finds that FIL transmitted those direct 
 
 
 
  
marketing messages, contrary to regulation 22 of PECR. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
19.  FIL, as the sender of the direct marketing, is required to ensure that it 
 
is acting in compliance with the requirements of regulation 22 of PECR, 
 
and to ensure that valid consent to send those messages had been 
 
acquired. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
20.  For consent to be valid it is required to be “freely given”, by which it 
   
follows that if consent to marketing is a condition of subscribing to a 
 
 
 
service, the organisation will have to demonstrate how the consent can 
   
be said to have been given freely. 

   
 
 

 
   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

21.  Consent is also required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 
 
 
organisation, that will be sending it. 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.  Consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not understand what 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
   

they are consenting to. Organisations should therefore always ensure 
 
that the language used is clear, easy to understand, and not hidden 
 
away in a privacy policy or small print.  Consent will not be valid if 
   
individuals are asked to agree to receive marketing from “similar 
 
organisations”, “partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar 
 
generic description. 
  
 

 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
23.  The Commissioner has considered the "consents" obtained and, for the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
reasons explained below, is concerned that in each case there are 
 
issues as to whether the consents can be said to have been freely 
 
given, specific and informed. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
24.  FIL used data to send marketing messages that had been captured by 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
third party websites. The Commissioner's investigation found that 
 
these third party websites did not obtain valid consent when collecting 
 
data and individuals were not sufficiently informed that by entering 
 
their details they were requesting solicited marketing messages from 
 
FIL. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
25.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the evidence he has seen 

 
 
that FIL did not have the necessary valid consent for the 527,481 
  
direct marketing messages received by subscribers. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
26.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
section 40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
deciding whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any 
 
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage. The 
 
Commissioner has decided that it is unlikely that damage has been 
 
caused in this instance. 
 
 
In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner hereby 
 
gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under section 40 of the 
 
DPA, he requires FIL to take the steps specified in Annex 1 of this 
 
Notice. 
 
 
 
Right of Appeal 

 
   

27. 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
28.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Information Rights), part of the General Regulatory Chamber. 
  
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Dated 27th day of June 2023 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Andy Curry 
 
Head of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

7 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
ANNEX 1 
 

 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 
 

 

 

 

 

 

FIL shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

  Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3) of 
 
 

 
regulation 22 of PECR, neither transmit, nor instigate the 
 
transmission of, unsolicited communications for the purposes of 
 
direct marketing by means of electronic mail unless the recipient of 
 
 
the electronic mail has previously notified FIL that he clearly and 
 
specifically consents for the time being to such communications 
 
being sent by, or at the instigation of, FIL. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

8 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 2 
 
 

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon 
 
whom an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
 
 
First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the 
 
notice. 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 
accordance with the law; or 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
 
the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised his discretion 
 
differently, 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
 

 
b) 
 

 

 

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner.  In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 

 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
 
 
at the following address: 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1. 
 

 
2. 
 
 

 
3. 
 

 

 
 

 
 
                 

                 
                 

 

 

 

 
 

General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
 
LE1 8DJ 
  

 

 

 

 

9 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 

 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: 
 

grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

 

 

 

 

 
4. 
  

 
 

 

 

  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 
 
 

 
days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier  Tribunal 
 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal 
 
Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 
 
 
 
2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 
 

