 

Confidential/Registered
Provincial Support Foundation
Party Overijssel Party for Freedom
[CONFIDENTIAL]
57 Steenmeijerstraat
7555 NV HENGELO

   

 

Date
June 16, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

 
Topic
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authority data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear [CONFIDENTIAL],
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (hereinafter: AP) has decided to inform the Provincial Support Foundation
Faction Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV) (hereinafter: PVV Overijssel) an administrative fine of
€ 7,500 to be imposed. The AP is of the opinion that the PVV Overijssel in the period from 14 January 2019 to
has failed to present a personal data breach without undue delay and
no later than 72 hours after the PVV Overijssel became aware of the infringement on January 11, 2019, at the latest
report to the AP. The PVV Overijssel therefore has Article 33, first paragraph, of the General Regulation
Violation of data protection (hereinafter: GDPR).
 
The decision is explained below. Chapter 1 contains the relevant facts and the course of the proceedings. In
Chapter 2 describes the legal framework. Chapter 3 provides the assessment of the AP, after which
the amount of the administrative fine is substantiated in Chapter 4. Finally, chapter 5 contains the
operative part and the remedies clause.
 
1. Facts and process
 
Foundation Support Provincial Faction Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV) has its registered office
at Steenmeijerstraat 57, 7555 NV in Hengelo. The foundation has, among other things, the granting of
administrative and administrative assistance to the Group (as referred to in Article 5 of the Rules of
order for the meeting and other activities of the Provincial Council of Overijssel or a

  

 

1



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
regulation that replaces it) for the purpose.1 The foundation also publishes under the name
'PVV Overijssel'.2
 
On January 11, 2019, the AP received a complaint about a possible violation of the GDPR by the
PVV Overijssel.3 The complaint means, in short, that the PVV Overijssel sent an e-mail on January 10, 2019.
e-mail message with “Invitation Affiliate Evening 28 January 2018” as subject to a
group of 101 recipients. For all recipients of the e-mail, including the complainant,
the list of recipients visible in the mailing list of the e-mail program.
 
As a result of this complaint, the AP has launched an investigation to determine whether the rules laid down in the
GDPR regarding reporting a personal data breach have been complied with
by the PVV Overijssel.
 
In a letter dated 15 May 2019, the AP requested information from the PVV Overijssel.4 The PVV Overijssel has
responded in writing to this request on 24 May 2019.5
 
The findings of the investigation are set out in the report 'Investigation not reporting infringement in
connection with personal data to the AP by the PVV Overijssel', research report of the department
Primary Care Examination (EL), dated November 18, 2019.
 
In a letter of 11 December 2019, the AP to the PVV Overijssel has an intention to enforce
sent together with the aforementioned investigation report and the underlying documentation, whereby
the PVV was also given the opportunity to express its views. The PVV Overijssel has
letter of 28 January 2020 has given its opinion in writing.
 
Based on the report with findings, the underlying documentation and the opinion of the PVV
Overijssel, the AP comes to the conclusion of the following relevant facts.
 
A fraction employee of the PVV Overijssel will send an e-mail message on Thursday, January 10, 2019 with
the subject 'Invitation of supporters evening 28 January 2018' to 101 addressees. Here were
for all recipients of the e-mail, including the complainant, the e-mail addresses of all recipients
visible in the mailing list of the e-mail program.6
 
The text of the email reads:
 
 

“Dear friends of the PVV,

                                                                        
1 Extract from the Chamber of Commerce 14 March 2019, no. 52322017, appendix 7 to the research report.
2 See, among other things, print screen website, appendix 6 to the research report.
3 Notification form, appendix 2 to the investigation report.
4 Information request from AP dated 15 May 2019, appendix 4 to the investigation report.
5 Response of PVV Overijssel of 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.
6 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

2/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

 
 

 

On Monday, January 28, 2019, the PVV Overijssel organizes a grassroots evening.
On this evening, the candidates for the Provincial Council elections of March 20th will be announced
2019 presented.
Members of the PVV will also be present on this evening.
During this evening, all candidates will introduce themselves and there will be a number of speakers.
After the formal part, we are all happy to talk to you and make it a cozy one
night of!
The evening starts at 19.30 pm and the supporters evening will take place in Hotel van der Valk in
Hengelo.
The address: Bornsestraat 400, 7556 BN Hengelo.
Because we want to know how many people we can expect, we request that you send us an e-mail.
mail to let us know if you are coming and with how many people.
Please send to secretariaat@pvvoverijssel.nl stating your name and the number
persons.
We look forward to seeing you! See you on the 28th!
Sincerely,
PVV Overijssel.”

 
In response to this invitation, the complainant sends the request for him to the PVV Overijssel the next day
from the email list and confirm it as such. In doing so, the complainant – in summary
displayed – indicating that the provision of all e-mail addresses of serious carelessness
bears witness to the privacy rules. By e-mail of January 11, 2019, the employee of the PVV responds
Overijssel to this with an apology and confirms that the complainant's data has been removed from the list. at 15
January 2019, the complainant again received a message from the PVV Overijssel with the same invitation
for the event on January 28, 2019, this time without the email addresses of invitees visible
goods. Once again, the complainant requests that his contact details be removed.7
 
To date, the AP has not received a report from the PVV Overijssel, so that the violation is still
continues.
 
2. Legal framework
 
Pursuant to Article 2(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to all or part of
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data that are in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR, the following definitions apply:
1. “Personal data”: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); considered identifiable is a natural person who can directly or indirectly
be identified, in particular by means of an identifier such as a name, a
identification number, location data, […].

                                                                        
7 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

3/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller” means a […] legal entity that, alone or jointly with others, fulfills the purpose of
and determine the means of processing personal data; […].
12. “Personal Data Breach” means a breach of security committed by accident or on
unlawfully leads to the destruction, loss, alteration or unauthorized disclosure of
or unauthorized access to data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
 
Pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR, the controller must, in the event of an infringement
connection with personal data has taken place, without undue delay and, if
possible, no later than 72 hours after he has become aware of it, to report it to the
55 competent supervisory authority unless it is unlikely that the breach related to
personal data poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. If the
notification to the supervisory authority is not made within 72 hours, it shall be accompanied by a
justification for the delay.
 
Recitals 75 and 76 of the GDPR provide, inter alia, as follows. The risk to the rights and
freedoms of individuals may result from personal processing that results in material and
immaterial damage. This risk is particularly felt if the processing can lead to, among other things, discrimination
and reputational damage. This risk can also be felt if personal data is processed from which
shows what a person's political opinion is. Risk assessment should take into account
with both the likelihood and severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
The risk must be determined on the basis of an objective assessment. In addition, it should be
determined whether the processing involves a risk or a high risk.
 
It follows from the above considerations, for example, that appropriate protective measures
must be taken, which are associated with the processing of personal data with such a connotation as
a political view.
 
3. Review
 
3.1 Processing of personal data and material scope of the GDPR
 
The aforementioned e-mail of January 10, 2019 concerns an invitation for a
grassroots evening on January 28, 20198 and is addressed to a group of 101 addressees, indicated therein
as “friends of the PVV”. The e-mail addresses are visible to all invitees in the address line of the
e-mail.9 These e-mail addresses contain combinations of a first and last name, initial(s) and
surname, first and/or last name with a number, letters and/or numbers that cannot be used as a (personal) name
indicate, as well as info addresses, et cetera.
 

                                                                        
8 The subject line of the e-mail reads '2018'. This is an obvious misspelling.
9 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

4/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
(Part of) the recipients of the aforementioned e-mail can be recognized immediately or can be identified with this
be traced back by a single search function.
 
Now based on this data, a natural person, including the complainant, can be identified directly or indirectly
identified, they qualify as personal data within the meaning of Article 4, opening words, and under 1,
of the GDPR.
 
As noted above, data about political opinions qualifies under the GDPR as
so-called 'special categories of personal data' as described in Article 9, first paragraph, of the
GDPR.
 
The AP has established that with the sending of the e-mail of January 10, 2019, there is the
processing personal data from which political views appear as referred to in Article 9, first paragraph,
of the GDPR. As the PVV Overijssel indicated in a letter dated 24 May 2019, the recipients of
the invitation to the constituency evening reported earlier to the PVV Overijssel and indicated
to be interested in receiving invitations.10 The view of the PVV Overijssel that the
reasons for interest in receiving e-mail messages such as invitations to
activities, can be diverse, the AP does not share. Interested in a meeting of the PVV
Overijssel does not rule out the possibility that there are also interested parties who, from their political point of view,
wish to attend the meeting. The AP takes into account the fact that this is referred to as the “followers”. Until
Finally, the AP points out that the PVV Overijssel also does not exclude that interested parties below
are willing to attend this evening because of their political views.
 
Based on the above, the AP concludes that the processing of personal data of
persons expressing a political opinion.
  
3.2 Controller
 
In the context of the question whether Article 33(1) of the GDPR is complied with, it is important to determine
who can be regarded as the controller as referred to in Article 4, opening words, and under 7, of the
GDPR. It is decisive for this who determines the purpose of and the means for the processing of personal data
determines.
 
The PVV Overijssel is a foundation that aims to provide administrative and administrative assistance to the
fraction of the PVV in the Provincial Council of Overijssel.11 The PVV Overijssel has no
group relationship with another legal entity, such as the Party for Freedom association. Exclusively
the board represents the foundation.12
 

                                                                        
10 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.
11 Extract from the Chamber of Commerce 14 March 2019, no. 52322017, appendix 7 to the research report.
12 See deed of incorporation of the Foundation Support Provincial Faction Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV), deed date 15
March 2011, consulted on August 29, 2019, appendix 8 to the investigation report.

 

 

5/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Every contribution posted on the website https://www.pvoverijssel.nl/ relates exclusively to
the provincial policy of the province of Overijssel. All contributions are posted on behalf of 'Party for the
Freedom Overijssel'. On the website, various image fragments, originating from Youtube, are
public appearances of the PVV Overijssel shared. All this published media is through the account 'PVV'
Overijssel' posted on Youtube. Only the PVV Overijssel can be contacted via the website
become. The AP concludes from this finding that website management is in the hands of the PVV Overijssel.
 
The supporters of the PVV Overijssel are made up of donors, volunteers and sympathizers. To
to be able to unite and mobilize them, the PVV Overijssel recruits volunteers. In addition, the PVV
Overijssel gave substance to the active eligibility of the PVV in the province of Overijssel by,
among other things, in three municipalities of the province to recruit candidates for the electoral list of the PVV for
the municipal elections of 2018. The PVV Overijssel has herein the participation of the PVV in
municipal elections in Overijssel in the municipalities of Almelo, Enschede and Twenterand
coordinated.13
 
The goal of recruiting volunteers and candidates for the 2018 municipal elections has the
PVV Overijssel designed by placing a web form on its website in which, among other things,
Name and address details, e-mail address, availability for City Council and/or volunteer, and the upload of
a CV must be processed by the PVV Overijssel.14
 
In its letter of 24 May 201915, the PVV Overijssel has responded to the AP16's request for information
indicated that she organizes different activities and worked with different mailing lists. The
She has sent an invitation for the grassroots evening to people who have previously reported to her
and have expressed an interest in receiving invitations. By a human
error of a group employee, the e-mail addresses were visible to everyone who had the relevant
received an invitation. The PVV Overijssel says it has learned from this and internally appropriate
have taken measures.
 
From the foregoing, the AP concludes that the PVV Overijssel independently determines which resources they use
considers it necessary to reach and activate its supporters in Overijssel. One of these resources
is sending email. The PVV Overijssel has control over the way in which the
personal data is processed and sets the purpose and means of the data processing in the
framework of this activity.
 
On the basis of the above, the AP designates the PVV Overijssel as the controller if
referred to in Article 4, preamble, and under 7, of the GDPR.
 
                                                                        
13 Print screen, appendix 6 to the research report.
14 Print screen, appendix 6 to the research report.
15 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.
16 Information request from AP dated 15 May 2019, appendix 4 to the investigation report.

 

 

6/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

3.3 Obligation to report breaches of personal data to the AP
 
3.3.1 Personal data breach
 
Pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR, the controller shall notify the infringement
connection with personal data without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after he
has taken cognizance of it, to the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55,
unless it is not likely that the personal data breach poses a risk to the
rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
For the question whether there has been a violation of the reporting obligation within the meaning of Article 33(1) of the GDPR,
is first of all important to determine whether the e-mail of January 10, 2019 was sent
of a so-called breach of security within the meaning of Article 4, opening words and under 12, of the
GDPR.
 
What should be clear is that a breach is a type of security incident. As indicated
Article 4, preamble and under 12, of the GDPR, however, only applies when there is a
breach of personal data. The consequence of such infringement is that the
controller will not be able to guarantee that the principles relating to the
processing of personal data as described in Article 5 of the GDPR are complied with. This
Stresses the difference between a security incident and a personal data breach –
Essentially, all personal data breaches are security incidents
but that not all security incidents are necessarily breaches related to
are personal data. It should be noted that a security incident is not limited to
threat models where an organization is attacked from the outside, but also includes incidents
arising from internal processing.17
 
On January 10, 2019, a party employee of the PVV Overijssel sends an e-mail message with a
invitation to a grassroots evening to a group of 101 addressees. This was for all
recipients of the e-mail, including the complainant, the e-mail address of recipients visible in the
mailing list of the e-mail program. The PVV Overijssel acknowledges in its response of 24 May 2019 to the
AP that this was highly undesirable and should never have happened.
 
In view of the above, the sending of the e-mail with the subject “Invitation Constituents
evening January 28, 2018” to a group of 101 addressees on January 10, 2019 by the PVV Overijssel
as a breach of security, which has inadvertently led to an unauthorized
provision of personal data to all recipients of the e-mail. In the opinion of the AP,
this constitutes an infringement in connection with personal data as referred to in Article 4, part 12,
of the GDPR.18

                                                                        
17 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 8.
18 Cf. example direct marketing mail, Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under
Regulation 2016/679, p. 39.

 

 

7/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
3.3.2 Notification obligation to the AP
 
The notification obligation, as laid down in Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR, is mainly aimed at
encourage data controllers to take immediate action in the event of a breach, the breach
contain, restore the compromised personal data if possible and
supervisory authority for advice. By committing the infringement within the first 72 hours
supervisory authority, the controller can satisfy itself that
decisions about whether or not to notify individuals are correct.19
 
3.3.2.1 The moment when the PVV Overijssel became aware of the infringement
Following the sending of the e-mail from the PVV Overijssel on January 10, 2019, the complainant has
January 11, 2019 responded and the PVV Overijssel requested his e-mail address from its address file
remove. The complainant also informs the PVV Overijssel that making all e-mails available
e-mail addresses and thereby traceable personal data is a sign of serious carelessness. to this
the PVV Overijssel responded with an e-mail on January 11, 2019 with apologies. Therefore, the PVV
Overijssel became aware of the infringement in any case on 11 January 2019.20
 
3.3.2.2 Risk assessment of personal data breach
The GDPR imposes a notification obligation on all controllers, unless it is unlikely
that an infringement poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. This must per
case to be assessed.21
 
According to the PVV Overijssel, the AP refers in part 3.4.222 of its investigation report to
to the “Guidelines for Notifying Personal Data Breach Reports under”
Regulation 2016/679', erroneously based on the concept 'that the personal data breach'
poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.” In the Guidelines (page 26)
however, the term is used: 'that the infringement poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons.” According to the Guidelines, therefore, a normal risk is not
sufficient, it must be a high risk, according to the PVV Overijssel.
 
The AP believes that the PVV Overijssel assumes an incorrect reading of the Guidelines. In there
a distinction is made between the notification to the DPA and the notification to the data subject(s):
 
“IV. Assessment of risk and high risk
 

A. Risk as a reason for reports/notifications

 

                                                                        
19 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 18.
20 See e-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.
21 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 9.
22 This is 3.5.2 Risk assessment.

 

 

8/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
While the GDPR introduces the obligation to report a breach, this is not the case in all circumstances
obliged:

 A breach must be reported to the competent supervisory authority, unless it
unlikely to pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
means.

 A violation will only be communicated to the person if it is probable that they have a high

risk to rights and freedoms.”23

 
In the investigation report, the AP found that the PVV Overijssel was obliged to commit the infringement
report to the AP. In that context, it must therefore be assessed whether it is unlikely that the
infringement poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
In its opinion, the PVV Overijssel also disputed that there is such a risk. To that end
it argues, inter alia, that the processing is only processing of ordinary, non-special
concerns personal data. The PVV Overijssel states that it is therefore unlikely that physical,
material or immaterial damage and that it has correctly established with regard to the infringement
that the infringement is not likely to endanger the rights and freedoms of natural persons
persons. According to the PVV Overijssel, it was not obliged to report the infringement to the AP.
 
The AP considers the following in this regard. In the Guidelines, with reference to the
Recitals 75 and 76 of the GDPR, which are factors that are important in the assessment of risks,
namely: nature of the infringement; nature, sensitivity and scope of the personal data; ease with which
persons can be identified; severity of consequences for persons; special features of
the person; special characteristics of the controller; the number of people affected;
and general points. The nature and sensitivity of the personal data affected by the breach
compromised are an important factor in this. The more sensitive the data, the larger usually
the risk of harm to the data subjects.24 When the breach relates to personal data
demonstrating a political opinion, material or immaterial harm (such as discrimination and
reputational damage) for the persons whose data is the subject of the infringement as probable
be considered.25
 
The email sent to 101 recipients dated January 10, 2019 contains email addresses with
personal data of the data subjects. For this, the AP has considered that processing
of personal data revealing political views. Given the subject matter and target audience of
the e-mail, an invitation to a constituency meeting of a political party, as well as the content of
that meeting, it is most likely that among the addressees there are persons who are interested
have in the ideas of the PVV. Such information could affect a
existing or future social position. Furthermore, the Guidelines on the

                                                                        
23 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 26.
24 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 28 ff.
25 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679, p. 26 and 27.

 

 

9/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
factor 'special characteristics of the controller' indicated that the nature and role of the
controller and its activities may affect the risk of a breach
means for persons. For example, a political organization processes special categories of personal data,
meaning there is a greater threat to individuals if their personal data has been breached.
This means that the political organization has a greater responsibility to
level of protection. Finally, it should be noted in this regard that the infringement
affects a relatively large number of people, namely (part of) those involved behind the mailing list of
interested in invitations to activities of the PVV Overijssel.
 
Given these circumstances, there is no question that the infringement is unlikely to pose a risk
affects the rights and freedoms of data subjects. The PVV Overijssel was therefore held de
to report the infringement to the AP.
 
3.3.2.3 Latest date on which PVV Overijssel should have reported the infringement to the AP
Now that the PVV Overijssel has been informed of the infringement in connection at least on January 11, 2019
with the personal data, it had a report without undue delay and at the latest within 72 hours
must do to the AP as the competent supervisory authority. So the PVV Overijssel had no later than
had to report to the AP on January 14, 2019, but has failed to do so to date.
 
In view of the foregoing, the AP is of the opinion that PVV Overijssel has Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR
by failing to disclose the personal data breach without unreasonable
delay and at the latest within 72 hours, after PVV Overijssel became aware of the
infringement, to report to the AP.
 
4. Fine
 
4.1 Introduction

 

If a controller fails to notify a personal data breach
from the supervisory authority, despite the fact that the requirements of Article 33 of the
GDPR is complied with, the supervisory authority is given a choice in which all at its disposal
standing corrective measures should be considered, as well as the imposition of a fine.
 
In its view, the PVV Overijssel has explained and substantiated why it is of the opinion that it is not
was obliged to make a report to the AP. It is therefore of the opinion that there is no ground
for the imposition of a measure or administrative fine. As far as the AP views the PVV
Overijssel would not follow, it makes an explicit and motivated appeal to Article 7 'Relevant
factors’ of the Fine Policy Rules.26
  

                                                                        
26 Policy rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority of 19 February 2019 with regard to determining the amount of
administrative fines (Fine Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019), Government Gazette No. 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

10/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP notes the following in this regard. By sending an invitation to a grassroots evening
in which, for all recipients of the e-mail, the list of recipients is visible in the
mailing list of the e-mail program, the PVV Overijssel has given unauthorized insight into all e-mail
e-mail addresses and in all names of the recipients, being persons with an interest in the ideas of
the PVV. By sending the e-mail, therefore, personal data from which political views
appear to have been shared with all recipients of the e-mail and the right to respect for
privacy and the right to the protection of personal data of a large number
data subjects who have lost control of their personal data as a result. It
failure to provide timely notification of this personal data breach to the AP
is a serious violation in the opinion of the AP. That the PVV Overijssel has no report of this
made, because it concerned people who indicated that they wish to receive mail periodically,27 makes
that's no different.
 
The AP sees reason to use its power to impose a fine under Article 58,
second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in conjunction with Article 14,
third paragraph, of the UAVG, to impose on the PVV Overijssel.
 
Pursuant to Article 83(4)(a) of the GDPR, infringements of Article 33 of the GDPR
subject to administrative fines up to € 10,000,000 or, for a
company, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if this figure
is higher.

 

4.2 Fine Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fining Policy Rules 2019)

 

The AP has established Fine Policy Rules 2019 regarding the interpretation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.1, of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the provisions with regard to violation
of which the AP can impose an administrative fine not exceeding the amount of € 10,000,000 […] in
appendix 1 classified in category I, category II or category III. In Annex 1, the violation of Article 33,
first paragraph, of the GDPR, classified in category III.

 

Pursuant to Article 2.3 of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules, the AP sets the basic fine for violations
subject to a statutory maximum fine of € 10,000,000 […] fixed within the determined in that article
penalty bandwidths. For violations in category III of Appendix 1 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019 applies
a fine range between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Pursuant to Article 6 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP determines the amount of the fine by dividing the amount
from the basic fine upwards (up to a maximum of the bandwidth of the
violation linked fine category) or down (to at least the minimum of that

                                                                        
27 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.

 

 

11/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
bandwidth). The basic fine is increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the
factors referred to in Article 7 of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules give rise to this.

 

Pursuant to Article 7 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP keeps without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of
the General Administrative Law Act (Awb) takes into account the following factors derived from Article 83,
second paragraph of the GDPR, referred to under a to k in the Policy Rules:
the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the damage suffered by them
injury;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to address the data subjects suffered
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible given the technical and
organizational measures that he has carried out in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the extent to which there has been cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data to which the breach relates;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, insofar as they are previously
with regard to the controller […] in question with regard to the same
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, arising directly or indirectly from the infringement
result.
 
Pursuant to Article 8.1 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP may, if the
fine category does not allow an appropriate punishment in the specific case, when determining the amount of
the fine the fine bandwidth of the next higher category or the fine bandwidth of the
next to lower category apply.
 
Pursuant to Article 9 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, when determining the fine, the AP will, if necessary,
taking into account the financial circumstances of the offender. In case of reduced or
If the offender has insufficient financial capacity, the AP can further mitigate the fine to be imposed if,
after application of Article 8.1 of the policy rules, determination of a fine within the fine range
of the next lower category would, in its opinion, nevertheless lead to a disproportionately high fine.

 

 

 

12/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
4.3 Fine amount
 
According to the AP, in this case, the following factors mentioned in Article 7 are particularly relevant for the
determining the amount of the fine:
a. the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability);
c. the measures taken by the controller or processor to
to limit the damage suffered by those involved.
 
4.3.1 Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
 
Pursuant to Article 7, opening words and under a, of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the nature,
the seriousness and duration of the infringement.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Under Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16,
paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), everyone has the right to
protection of his personal data. The principles and rules concerning the protection of
natural persons when processing their personal data must be in accordance with
their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to protection of
personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the creation of an area of freedom,
security and justice and of economic union, as well as to economic and social progress, the
strengthening and convergence of economies within the internal market and the well-being of natural
persons. The processing of personal data must serve people. The right to
protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be considered in relation to
to its function in society and must conform to the principle of proportionality against other
fundamental rights are weighed up. Any processing of personal data must be fair and lawful
to happen. The personal data must be sufficient, relevant and limited to:
what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Personal data must be
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of that data,
also to prevent unauthorized access to or use of personal data and
the equipment used for processing. With the GDPR, effective protection of
personal data intended.
 
Notification of breaches should be seen as a means of ensuring compliance with the related rules
to improve the protection of personal data. If an infringement in connection with
personal data takes place or has taken place, this may result in physical, material or
immaterial damage to natural persons or any other economic or social disadvantage for
the person in question. Therefore, as soon as the controller becomes aware of
a breach of personal data the supervisor without delay and if possible within 72 hours
of the personal data breach. The supervisor is thus in
able to properly perform its duties and powers, as laid down in the GDPR.

 

 

13/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
The PVV Overijssel believes that the nature and scope of the infringement is limited, now that it is a single e-mail.
e-mail message with a general indication without containing information regarding the data subject
is processed other than the email address.
 
The AP does not follow the PVV Overijssel in this. It should be assumed that the PVV Overijssel van
January 14, 2019 to date has not made the legally required notification of this infringement to the AP. Bee
In its assessment, the AP considers that the infringement concerns 101 persons, which furthermore includes
of a special category of personal data, namely those that reveal political opinions. The
In view of this, the AP considers the violation serious, but sees no reason to pay the basic fine
increase or decrease.
 
4.3.2 Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability)
 
Pursuant to Article 5:46, second paragraph, of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
into account the extent to which this can be blamed on the offender. Now that this is a
violation, the imposition of an administrative fine in accordance with established case law28 does not require that
it is demonstrated that there is intent and the AP may presume culpability if it
offense is established.29
 
The PVV Overijssel believes that there is no intentional or negligent nature of the infringement. She
has immediately made the assessment that it should make in accordance with Article 33 of the GDPR upon discovery
and has lawfully ruled that there is no obligation to report the infringement to the AP.
 
The AP notes that insofar as such a consideration has already taken place, the PVV Overijssel
has not performed it correctly. As a ground for not reporting the infringement to the AP, she has
indicated: “it concerns an invitation that has been sent to people who have previously registered with
us and have expressed an interest in receiving our invitations.” And we
did not report this, because it concerned people who indicated periodically from
to receive our email.” In addition, the PVV Overijssel has indicated in that context that it is "not to
an involuntary group of people.”30 However, this is not a criterion against which one could
concluded that this would be a non-reportable infringement. At the time
that the PVV Overijssel was aware of the incident, based on the nature of the wrongful
personal data provided must make a risk assessment and subsequently report the breach
at the AP. PVV Overijssel has nevertheless failed to report to the AP.
 

                                                                        
28 Cf. CBb 29 October 2014, ECLI:NL:CBB:2014:395, r.o. 3.5.4, CBb September 2, 2015, ECLI:NL:CBB:2015:312, r.o. 3.7 and CBb March 7, 2016,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:54, r.o. 8.3, ABRvS 29 August 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:2879, r.o. 3.2 and ABRvS December 5, 2018,
ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:3969, r.o. 5.1.
29 Parliamentary Papers II 2003/04, 29702, no. 3, p. 134.
30 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.

 

 

14/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In view of the foregoing, the AP considers it culpable that the PVV Overijssel did not report to
the AP, but on the basis of this established culpability, sees no reason to
increase or decrease the basic fine.
 
4.3.3 Measures taken to limit the damage suffered by those involved

 

The PVV Overijssel has indicated that it has changed its working method and processes immediately after observation
modified to prevent such a mistake from being made again and
measures have been proven to be effective.
 
The AP considers that no measures have been found to mitigate the damage (possibly) suffered by those involved
to limit. A political organization such as the PVV Overijssel can be expected to fully commit itself
is aware of the sensitivity of the personal data it processes and has an appropriate
level of protection. Only after the incident did she indicate that someone internally would
become proficient in the GDPR.
 
The AP therefore sees no reason in the circumstances invoked to increase the basic amount of the fine
pursuant to Article 7, under c of the 2019 Policy Rules.
 
4.3.4 Proportionality
 
Finally, on the basis of Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb (principle of proportionality), the AP assesses whether the
applying its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Applying the principle of proportionality
According to the 2019 Fine Policy Rules, the AP entails that, if necessary, when determining the fine
takes into account the financial circumstances of the offender.
 
The PVV Overijssel has indicated that as a non-profit political foundation it has very limited
has financial resources.
 
The AP considers this as follows. Pursuant to Article 3 of the Foundation's Articles of Association
Support Provincial Faction Overijssel Party for Freedom, it is the realization of the
purpose of the foundation Capital intended for use formed by the financial contribution of the province
Overijssel, and that which is obtained in other ways. According to the Regulation on official assistance and
political group support in the province of Overijssel, the political groups receive an annual financial contribution as
contribution to the costs of the functioning of the group. This allowance amounts to at least
maximum of €3,570 for each member of Parliament belonging to that fraction, increased by €26,460 per fraction (per 1
January 2019).31
 

                                                                        
31 Ordinance on official assistance and faction support for the province of Overijssel 2016, Provincial Gazette no. 33, 2 January 2017 and no. 2734,
Apr 11, 2019.

 

 

15/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In view of this, the AP considers the capacity of the PVV Overijssel limited and comes to the conclusion that the PVV
Overijssel cannot financially bear the fine of € 525,000. On this basis, the AP . sees
reason to reduce the fine. In this case, the AP considers a fine of € 7,500 appropriate and
commanded. In this regard, the AP considers that it has not been shown that the PVV Overijssel would not pay this fine
can wear.
 
4.3.5 Conclusion

 

The AP sets the total fine at € 7,500.

5. Operative part

fine
 
The AP explains to the PVV Overijssel, because of violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR in the period
from January 14, 2019 to the present, an administrative fine in the amount of € 7,500 (in words: seven thousand
five hundred euros).32
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,
 
 
 
mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can return it within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the
decide to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Submit it
of a notice of objection suspends the effect of this decision. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for paper submission
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
State 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'objection' in the title of your letter.
In your notice of objection, write at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your notice of objection;
- the reference mentioned in this letter (case number); or attach a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you do not agree with this decision;
- your signature.
                                                                        
32 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

16/16

