

Bonn, June 9th, 2021


Press release 10/2021


  New homepage and return of data protection forum
The BfDI has completely revised its homepage. The articles were rewritten in such a way that very different target groups are addressed. The new design should give citizens better access to the information available. In addition, the BfDI activated a new data protection forum.

BfDI Kelber said: Our range of information should be one thing in particular: accessible to everyone. For this we have revised, rearranged and cleaned out hundreds of articles. It is personally important to me that everyone who is looking for information on our homepage can find it easily. That too is part of transparency.
In addition to the information, citizens and journalists should be able to find the right contact route or a contact person more quickly. The data protection forum will also be reactivated for official and company data protection officers as well as other experts: I am particularly pleased that we finally have a space again where those who fill the topic of data protection with life every day can discuss. And even more important: In the data protection forum, users can exchange information and tips for practice.
All information is now available with just a few clicks. As usual, the site provides users with documents from the BfDI, the DSK, the EDSA and other bodies. In addition, a "contact finder" will be introduced with the relaunch. With this tool, the responsible body for a data protection problem is determined on the basis of a few questions to the user. The homepage of the BfDI remains accessible via https://www.bfdi.bund.de. You can reach the data protection forum via https://www.bfdi.bund.de/forum.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











