1/14

 File No.: EXP202102257

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated August 30, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against the HEALTH SERVICE OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS (IB-
SALUT) with NIF Q0719003F (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons on which
The claim is based on the following:

The claimant states that the Health Service of the Balearic Islands obliges all
who enters the islands to fill in the "Digital Sanitary Control Form (Fcs)
for Documentary Control in Ports and Airports in the Balearic Islands" and
considers that it does not comply with the principle of data minimization since they are not
adequate, relevant or limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are treated.

The document appears in the link: https://viajarabaleares.ibsalut.es/formulario/?
locale=en
Likewise, it questions the validity of the information on the legal basis cited
for the processing of personal data, hosted on the website:
https://www.ibsalut.es//es/informacion-sobre-el-tratamiento-dedatos-personales.

On the other hand, it shows its disagreement with the purposes of the treatment that is
They cite "guaranteeing the provision of ordinary or extraordinary services in order to
guarantee the sanitary control of the entry of passengers in ports and airports
of the Balearic Islands and with statistical uses and health research". It understands that the
statistical purposes and guaranteeing the provision of services (without indicating what they are) are not
can be understood as encompassed within the possible qualification derived from the
health emergency.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on September 23, 2021
as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

On November 1, 2021, this Agency received a written response to the
transfer of the claim presented by the claimant party 1 indicating, in summary,
the context in which the adoption of this measure is framed; the organism
responsible for determining the purposes and means of personal data processing
related to the sanitary control of ports and airports; that the criteria in
that was based for the definition of the purposes of the processing of personal data
carried out during the sanitary control in the ports and airports of the Islands
The Balearic Islands were those established by the Ministry of Health of the Government of Spain
and the creation of a new treatment activity in its registry under the title "Control
passenger toilet in ports and airports of the Balearic Islands”; the legal basis
of treatment (articles 6.1.c) and 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD)), the data collected for the purpose of
to comply with the principle of data minimization; the way in which it is facilitated
treatment information "Health control of passengers in ports and airports
de las Illes Balears" to the interested parties, expresses the claimed part that is provided in
two layers: a first one in the footer of the FCS, and a second one in the direction of
Internet
https://www.ibsalut.es/es/informacion-sobre-eltratamiento-de-datos-
personal.

 

THIRD: On November 30, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Sub-Directorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigation actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and of the powers granted in article 58.1 of the GDPR, and of
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

To carry out the pertinent checks, the current FCS has been accessed with
dated August 3, 2021 and to the information on personal data linked by
this with the title "IB-SALUT PORTAL POLICY 19 APRIL 2021").

The FCS published on August 3, 2021 has the following description of
the purpose of the treatment: "Your personal data will be processed for the purposes
surveillance and sanitary control of the COVID-19 pandemic, to guarantee the
provision of ordinary or extraordinary services in order to ensure control
health of the entry of passengers in the ports and airports of the Balearic Islands
and for statistical and health research purposes.”

The IB-Salut portal policy of April 19, 2021 expressed the following in
relation to the purpose: "Your personal data will be processed for surveillance and
health control due to the pandemic caused by COVlD-19, guarantee the provision of
of ordinary or extraordinary services in order to guarantee sanitary control
of the entry of passengers in the ports and airports of the Balearic Islands and with uses
statistics and health research.

The Registry of Treatment Activities of the General Directorate of the Information Service
Salud de las Islas Baleares contains, in relation to the purpose of the treatment

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

"Sanitary control of passengers in ports and airports of the Balearic Islands" the
following text:

“Purpose of the treatment
Health surveillance and control due to the pandemic caused by COVID-19
Guarantee the provision of ordinary or extraordinary services in order to
guarantee the sanitary control of the entry of passengers in ports and airports
from the Balearic Islands
Statistical uses and health research”

On the legal basis of the treatment

The FCS published on August 3, 2021 does not have information on the basis
legal treatment. However, it does contain a link (“if you want more
information on the use of your personal data, click here") to the portal policy
IB-Salut, which in its version of April 19, 2021 stated the following:

"Personal data will be processed by the Health Service of the Illes
Balearic Islands and incorporated into the treatment activity "Sanitary control of passengers in
ports and airports of the Balearic Islands".

The processing of your data is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
applicable to the controller and for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment (Royal Decree 926/2020 of October 25, by which
declares a state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused
by SARSCoV-2, Royal Decree-Law 23/2020, of June 23, which approves
measures in the field of energy and in other areas for economic reactivation,
Resolution of November 11, 2020, of the General Directorate of Public Health,
regarding the sanitary controls to be carried out at the points of entry into Spain).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in its Response to the Transfer the defendant adds that
"From the date on which IB-Salut registered the treatment "Sanitary control of
passengers in ports and airports of the Balearic Islands”, new Regulations and/or
Assumptions that enable such treatment has entered into force [...], which has not been
updated or included in the IB-Salut RAT.”

Thus, it states that it will be corrected and indicates that the correct information is:

-

"Art. 6.1.e), the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment.

- Art. 9.1.i), the treatment of special categories for reasons of interest

essential public in the field of public health.

- Art. 9.1.g), processing is necessary for reasons of public interest

essential.

- Art. 9.1.h) the treatment is necessary for preventive medicine purposes.

Referencing the correct regulations that enable the legal basis of treatment:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health
Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.

-
-
- Resolution of November 11, 2020, of the General Directorate of Health
Public, related to the sanitary controls to be carried out at the points of entry
from Spain. The sanitary control form in paper format contemplated in
the same, may be used exceptionally and for a period of
one month.

- Decree 21/2020, of December 14, of the President of the Balearic Islands, by
that limitations are established on the entry into the Balearic Islands of people
from the rest of the autonomous communities and the cities of Ceuta
and Melilla, as a consequence of the declaration of the state of alarm and to
deal with the health emergency situation caused by COVID-19
- Resolution of the Minister of Health and Consumption of March 18, 2021 by
which establishes specific sanitary measures to provide safety in the
access to the Balearic Islands for residents or visitors for any reason
justified.

- Resolution of June 4, 2021, of the General Directorate of Public Health,
regarding the sanitary controls to be carried out at the points of entry of
Spain, under the provisions of the first article of Royal Decree-
Law 8/2021, of May 4 and the provisions of article 52 of the Law
33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.

- Decree 33/2021, of April 9, of the President of the Balearic Islands, by which
temporary and exceptional measures are established for reasons of public health
for the containment of COVID-19 in all the Balearic Islands, under the protection of the
declaration of the state of alarm, and modification of Decree 21/2020, of
December 14, of the President of the Balearic Islands, establishing
Limitations on the entry into the Balearic Islands of people from the rest
of autonomous communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, such as
consequence of the declaration of the state of alarm and to deal with the
health emergency situation caused by COVID-19.

- Royal Decree-Law 8/2021, of May 4, adopting measures
urgent in the sanitary, social and jurisdictional order, to be applied after the
expiration of the validity of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree
926/2020, of October 25, declaring the state of alarm for
contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2.

- Resolution of June 4, 2021, of the General Directorate of Public Health,
regarding the sanitary controls to be carried out at the points of entry of
Spain.

- Resolution of June 8, 2021, of the General Directorate of Public Health,
by which the one of June 4, 2021, related to the controls is modified
health services to be carried out at the points of entry into Spain, under the protection of the
contemplated in the first article of Royal Decree-Law 8/2021, of May 4
and what is established in article 52 of Law 33/2011, of October 4,
General of Public Health.

- Agreement of the Governing Council of June 28, 2021 by which the
establish exceptional conditions for the organization, reservation and sale of
organized trips to groups of people, in the Balearic Islands, to prevent and
contain the pandemic caused by COVID-19 throughout the month of July
2021 and the effectiveness of the measures contained in the
Agreement of the Governing Council of June 18, 2021 by which the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

establish the health alert levels that must be applied in each
of the islands

- Agreement of the Governing Council of September 8, 2021 by which the
establishes the exceptional control measure for the entry of people into the
Illes Balears coming from the rest of the autonomous communities and from the
cities of Ceuta and Melilla, to prevent and contain the pandemic caused
by COVID-19 until October 31, 2021 (hereinafter,
"Agreement of the Governing Council of September 8, 2021")"

As has been verified, the Registry of Treatment Activities of the Directorate
General of the Health Service of the Balearic Islands, in relation to the legal basis
of the treatment "Sanitary control of passengers in ports and airports of the Illes
Balearic Islands” currently includes the text described by the claimed party in its response
to the transfer of the claim.

FIFTH: On June 14, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated the following:

1.- First of all, they show their disagreement with the need to refer
to the articles of the RGPD of the legal bases that legitimize the aforementioned treatment to the
understand that said need is not included in the applicable regulations,
RGPD and LOPDGDD, nor in the interpretative guides of the AEPD.

2.- Below and in relation to the validity of the regulations referenced in the
notice made available to users on the legal basis of the treatment, the part
The defendant affirms that it took as a reference the legal basis of the treatment “SpTH Spain
Travel Health”, carried out by the General Directorate of Public Health (Subdirectorate
Ministry of Foreign Health of the MSBS), determining that the legality of the treatment
"Sanitary control of passengers in ports and airports of the Balearic Islands" was the
same as that determined by the MSBS. and that, in any case, he understands that it is about
a formal error that at no time could have caused a situation of
material misinformation to the interested parties that causes harm or harm to them,
while it has always been complying with the essential principles of the
applicable regulations on data protection and, specifically, article 13
GDPR.

3.- Lastly, it insists that, in the event that it could be considered that
produced an infringement, this would not have affected the rights and freedoms
Of the interested. He bases said statement on the following points: a) the
consideration that it cannot be considered that there is an infringement
material enough of the right to information of the affected party for not providing all
the information required by articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR; b) there has not been a
continuity in time of the same while the claimed party considers that
made its best efforts to implement measures to alleviate such

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

situation and correct such hypothetical regulatory deficiencies as soon as possible
possible; c) there has been no intention on his part; d) considers that there has been no
damage.

He concludes his statement of allegations by requesting that the absence of
administrative responsibility or, failing that, proceed to the mere warning,
given the nature of the present infraction, the lack of continuity in the time of the
itself and the implementation of measures to alleviate the existing situation, the absence
intentionality and non-irrogation of material or psychological damages or harm to
the interested.

SEVENTH: On August 1, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to penalize the party claimed by a
breach of article 13 of the GDPR.

In said motion for a resolution, a response was given to the allegations raised
against the initiation agreement, indicating the following:

1.- In relation to the statement regarding the unnecessaryness of referring to the
articles of the GDPR of the legal bases that legitimize the treatment, this Agency does not
can share said opinion and this because of the reading of section 1.c) of the
Article 13 of the GDPR can only be made the unequivocal interpretation of the
will of the legislator that those affected clearly know both the purposes of the
processing as the legal basis thereof. Legal basis that, to be lawful, must
rely, necessarily, on any of the sections of article 6 of the GDPR.

2.- Regarding your second allegation, we proceed to clarify, firstly, that the
adaptation to current regulations of the procedure established by the Management
Department of Public Health (General Subdirectorate of Foreign Health of the MSBS) is not
object of this procedure and that, therefore, its assessment does not proceed here.
On the other hand, neither can the consideration be accepted as a mere formal error without
consequences of making information available to those affected
incomplete or erroneous in terms of the regulatory references applicable to the treatment
of your personal data. And this because it supposes a clear defenselessness that makes it difficult,
if it does not prevent said persons from knowing the reasons that allow them to consider lawful the
processing of your personal data affecting one of your rights
fundamental.

3.- In conclusion, we can only disagree with the statement made by the party
claimed on the lack of affectation to the rights and freedoms of the interested party: it has been
produced a violation of the right to information required in article 13 of the
GDPR for not having made available to those affected the correct information and
update of the legal basis for the processing of your personal data. the existence and
prolongation in time of said infraction has been not only proven but
also recognized by the claimed party.

In relation to the lack of intent on the part claimed, suffice it to say that it is not
requires a special intention to break the rule in this type of offences; is
sufficient to verify non-compliance without there being a reason, force majeure or other
similar nature, can positively exclude guilt.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

EIGHTH: On August 8, 2022, the claimed party submits a written
allegations against the proposed resolution in which, in summary, the
following considerations:

1.- In its first allegation, the defendant emphasizes that, in the Form of
Sanitary Control (“FCS”), the interested parties were informed using the mechanism
of information in two layers provided for in article 11 of Organic Law 3/2018 of
Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (“LOPDGDD”). Considers
proven that the first and second information layers, in their versions of April 19
of 2021, incorporated both the purposes of the treatment and the legal basis thereof.
Likewise, it reiterates its conviction that the obligation contained in the
GDPR consists simply of informing about the purpose and legal basis of the
treatment, without it being necessary to expressly mention the GDPR, nor
cite the numerical reference of the corresponding section and article in each case (in
In this case, article 6 sections c) and e)).

2.- Regarding the possible defenselessness of the interested parties in relation to their right to
information, the one claimed reiterates what has already been said throughout the procedure, recog-
noting that, indeed, the regulations initially referenced in the policy of the
IB-SALUT portal was not the one in force at that time. However, you also understand
It is also important to take into account that the purpose of the regulatory provisions
erroneously cited was the same as that of those that should have been cited, trying to
It is only an out-of-date in relation to the standard in force at the moment.
of the facts considering therefore that what exists is a merely for-
wrong, not material, with which no defenselessness was caused to the interested parties.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The Digital Sanitary Control Form (Fcs) for Documentary Control
in Ports and Airports in the Balearic Islands published on August 3, 2021
did not have information on the legal basis of the treatment, its content being
literally the following:

Your personal data will be processed for the purposes of surveillance and control.
of the COVID-19 pandemic, to guarantee the provision of
ordinary or extraordinary services in order to ensure sanitary control
of the entry of passengers in the ports and airports of the Balearic Islands and
for statistical and health research purposes.

However, it did contain a link (“if you want more information about using
your personal data, click here") to the IB-Salut portal policy, which in its version
of April 19, 2021 stated the following:

"Personal data will be processed by the Health Service of the
Illes Balears and incorporated into the treatment activity "Sanitary control of
passengers in ports and airports of the Balearic Islands".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

The processing of your data is necessary for the fulfillment of a
legal obligation applicable to the data controller and for compliance
of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers
conferred on the data controller (Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 December
October, by which the state of alarm is declared to contain the
spread of infections caused by SARSCoV-2, Royal Decree-law
23/2020, of June 23, which approves energy measures
and in other areas for the economic reactivation, Resolution of 11
November 2020, of the General Directorate of Public Health, regarding the
health checks to be carried out at points of entry into Spain).

SECOND: Currently, the Registry of Information Treatment Activities
General Directorate of the Health Service of the Balearic Islands, in relation to the database
legal treatment "Sanitary control of passengers in ports and airports of the
Illes Balears” includes the text described by the claimed party in which it is made
express reference to both article 6 of the GDPR as the basis for the legality of the
treatment, as well as the sectoral regulations that are applicable.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In response to the allegations raised, it is appropriate to make the following
considerations:

1.- In relation to the first of your allegations, we proceed to point out that it
cannot be estimated. As has been collected throughout the procedure and as
indicates the claimed party, even though the FCS did not initially collect the
basis of legitimation for the treatment, it did contain a link that referred to the
policy of the IB-Salut portal in which several sections were cited generically
of article 6 of the GDPR, without specifying which of them were applicable to the case
specifically of the FCS nor did it include the normative provisions that so provided.

In this sense, it is insisted that the mere generic reference to the bases of the
treatment that was included in the IB-Salut portal policy cannot be considered
as complete information, especially taking into account that the regulations that are
referenced as founding the applicability of said legitimizing bases

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

It was not in force at the time of the facts. The principles of transparency and
legal certainty that govern the actions of public administrations, as well as the
obligation to comply with the principle of transparency provided in art. 5.1.a)
of the GDPR necessarily require that, when the processing is based on
any of the legal bases provided for in art. 6.1.c) and 6.1.e) of the GDPR
(fulfillment of a legal obligation or fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment) the citizen is indicated clearly and precisely what is the norm
legal enabling law regarding said treatment (within the meaning of art. 8 of the
LOPDGDD).

It has been made clear in this file and acknowledged by the party
claimed that this was not the situation in which we found ourselves. just as i know
reflects, in fact, in the response given by the claimed party itself to the requirement
of this Agency carried out during the previous investigation actions, in which
not only recognized the non-compliance that is the subject of this file, but also reflected
also in your proposal the necessary reference to the exception applicable in this case
to be able to process special categories of data, such as health data (article
9.2 of the GDPR).

The Agency's approach in this regard has been demonstrated in numerous
occasions (the various Guides published by the AEPD to facilitate
understanding and compliance with sectoral regulations, such as the guide
for data controllers or that relating to compliance with the duty to inform).
The information provided must be complete and comprehensive of all
obligations essentially generated by virtue of articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR
but also, as is logical, of the principles that govern the regulations for the protection of
data being especially relevant for our purposes, that of responsibility
proactive.

2.- Regarding the possible defenselessness of the interested parties in relation to their right to
information, this Agency can only reiterate what has already been said throughout the procedure.
to: ignorance of the applicable and enabling regulations for the treatment of data
personal data in general, and in particular, those of a special nature such as data
related to health, cannot be considered more than a reason for defenselessness of the
citizen, since it prevents him from defending himself against possible abuse, as well as
conscious and voluntary compliance with the mandates to which he may be subjected,
as the possible exercise of the rights derived from the treatment in question.

II

When personal data is collected directly from the interested party, the information
It must be provided at the same time that data collection takes place. He
Article 13 of the GDPR details this information in the following terms:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with
all the information listed below:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been lent.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this term;

b) the existence of the right to request the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of their treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing
such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about the logic applied, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under section 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 will not be applicable when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information”.

In accordance with these regulations, the duty to inform corresponds to the person responsible for the
processing of personal data.

In this case, the claimed party did not adequately inform the legal basis of the
treatment. As reflected above, the information provided in the second
layer, not respecting also the recommendations given by this Agency, did not
any reference to the GDPR, referring generically to several of the bases
included in its article 6.1, without specifying which would be applicable to concrete
data processing derived from the completion of the FCS, nor allude to the reasons
that would allow the treatment of data of a special nature such as the data of
health. Likewise, it should be noted that the regulations that it did include were not
in force at the time of the facts.

IV.

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has informed deficiently of the legal basis of the treatment of the
data that was going to be carried out when those affected completed the FCS.

Known facts are considered to constitute an infringement, attributable to the
claimed party, for violation of article 13 of the GDPR.

This offense is typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR, which under the
section "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides
the next:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:
(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;(…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 74. Offenses considered minor.

The remaining infractions of a nature are considered minor and will prescribe after one year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

V

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR in its section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.”

SAW

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows its organization and has to decide, based on the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE HEALTH SERVICE OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS (IB-SALUT),
with NIF Q0719003F, for a violation of article 13 of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to HEALTH SERVICE OF THE
BALEARIC ISLANDS (IB-SALUT).

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-120722

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

