 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE
 

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen

 

Bremerhaven, March 03, 2022

 
LfDI imposes a GDPR fine on BREBAU GmbH
 
Today the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) as
data protection supervisory authority BREBAU GmbH with a fine under Article 83
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
 
BREBAU GmbH has processed more than 9,500 pieces of data on prospective tenants without it
there was a legal basis for this. For example, information about hairstyles, body
ruch and personal appearance are not required for the conclusion of tenancies.
In more than half of the cases, it was also about data that was processed under the GDPR
are specially protected. Information about the color of the skin was also processed unlawfully,
ethnic origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation and health
state of health. BREBAU GmbH has also received requests from affected parties for transparency about the processing
processing of their data is deliberately thwarted.
 
The fine imposed under Article 83 GDPR amounts to around 1.9 million euros. the au-
Extraordinary depth of the violation of the fundamental right to data protection would be significantly greater
fine was reasonable. Because the BREBAU GmbH in the data protection supervisory
Drive extensively cooperated to mitigate damage, own clarification of the facts
and endeavored to ensure that such violations are not repeated, the amount of the
fine can be significantly reduced.
 
On the occasion of this supervisory procedure, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
onsfreiheit, Dr. Imke Sommer: "In connection with the public discussion about the case
This data protection supervisory procedure is based on, I have often been asked whether
the GDPR prohibits discrimination. The answer to this question is complicated because the
DSGVO looks at facts in a specific way. According to the GDPR, it is only in a few
cases permitted at all, data on skin colour, ethnic origin, religious affiliation,
to process sexual orientation and health status. The GDPR thus ensures
for the fact that in the vast majority of cases this specially protected data is not even collected in the first place
may be saved. Uncollected data cannot be misused. In this
The GDPR also protects against discrimination."

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

