EDPB - EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2021
on the European Commission’s
Implementing Decision on
standard contractual clauses
between controllers and
processors
for the matters referred to in Article 28 (7)
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Article 29
(7) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725

Adopted

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1
2
3

4

3.1
3.2

Background.....................................................................................................................................3
Scope of the opinion ......................................................................................................................4
General reasoning regarding the Draft Decision and the Draft SCCs ............................................4
General comments..................................................................................................................4
Explanation of the methodology applied and structure of the document.............................5
Analysis of the Draft Decision and its Annex..................................................................................5
4.1 Main comments on the Draft Decision...................................................................................5
4.1.1
On the scope of the Decision and on the articulation with the other set of Draft SCCs
on transfers ....................................................................................................................................5
4.2 Main comments on the Annex to the Commission implementing decision...........................6
Purpose and scope (Clause 1 of the Draft SCCs).............................................................6
Invariability (Clause 2 of the Draft SCCs) ........................................................................7
Docking clause (Clause 5 of the Draft SCCs) ...................................................................7
Obligations of the Parties (Clause 7 of the Draft SCCs) ..................................................7
Data Subject rights (Clause 8 of the Draft SCCs).............................................................9
Annexes to the Draft SCCs ............................................................................................10

4.2.1
4.2.2
4.2.3
4.2.4
4.2.5
4.2.6

Adopted

2

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection
Supervisor
Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by the  Union institutions,  bodies,
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (“EUDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION

1 BACKGROUND

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

In  the  context  of  the  relationship  between  a  controller  and  a  processor,  or  processors,  for  the
processing of personal data, the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation or “GDPR”) establishes, in its Article 28, a set
of provisions with respect to the setting up of a specific contract between the parties involved, and
mandatory provisions that should be incorporated in it.

According to Article 28 (3) GDPR, the processing by a processor shall be governed by a contract or
other legal act under Union or Member State law that is binding on the processor with regard to the
controller, setting out a set of specific aspects to regulate the contractual relationship between the
parties. These include the subject-matter and duration of the processing, its nature and purpose, the
type  of  personal  data  and  categories  of  data  subjects,  among  others.  Article  28  (4)  provides  for
additional  requirements  where  a  processor  engages  another  processor  for  carrying  out  specific
processing activities on behalf of the controller.

Under Article 28 (6) GDPR, without prejudice to an individual contract between the controller and the
processor, the contract or the other legal act referred in paragraphs (3) and (4) of Article 28 GDPR may
be based, wholly or in part, on standard contractual clauses. These standard contractual clauses are
to be adopted for those matters referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4).

Article 28 (7) GDPR provides that the Commission may lay down standard contractual clauses for the
matters  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  and  4  of  this  Article  and  in  accordance  with  the  examination
procedure referred to in Article 93(2).

The EUDPR lays down rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
of personal data by the Union institutions and bodies and rules relating to the free movement of
personal data between them or to other recipients established in the Union.

Article 29 (3), (4) and (7) of the EUDPR contain similar requirements as the ones included in Article 28
(3), (4) and (7) of the GDPR. This is justified by the fact that, in the interest of a coherent approach to

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.

Adopted

3

personal data protection throughout the Union and the free movement of personal data within the
Union, the data protection rules applicable to the public sector in the Member States and the data
protection rules for Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies were aligned as far as possible.

2 SCOPE OF THE OPINION

7.

On 12 November 2020, the Commission published:





a Draft Commission Implementing Decision on standard contractual clauses between controllers
and processors for the matters referred to in Article 28 (3) and (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and Article 29 (7) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725) (the “Draft Decision”);

a  draft  Annex  to  the  Commission  Implementing  Decision  on  standard  contractual  clauses
between  controllers  and  processors  for  the  matters  referred  to  in  Article  28  (3)  and  (4)  of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Article 29 (7) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725) (the “Draft SCCs”).

The same day, the European Commission also published a draft Commission Implementing Decision
and its Annex on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

On 12 November 2020, the European Commission requested a joint opinion of the European Data
Protection Board (EDPB) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) on the basis of Article
42(1), (2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (EU DPR) on these two sets of draft standard contractual
clauses and the respective implementing acts.

For the sake of clarity, the EDPB and EDPS decided to issue two separate opinions on these two sets
of SCCs.

The scope of this opinion is thus limited to the Draft Decision and Draft SCCs between controllers and
processors for the matters referred to in Article 28 (3) and (4) of the GDPR and Article 29 (3) and (4)
of the EUDPR.

3 GENERAL REASONING REGARDING THE DRAFT DECISION AND THE

DRAFT SCCs

3.1 General comments
Any set of SCCs must further specify the provisions foreseen in Article 28 GDPR and Article 29 EUDPR.
The opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS aims at ensuring consistency and a correct application of Article
28 GDPR as regards the presented Draft SCCs that could serve as standard contractual clauses in
compliance with Article 28 (7) GDPR and Article 29 (7) EUDPR.

The EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that clauses which merely restate the provisions of Article
28(3) and (4) GDPR and Article 29 (3) and (4) EUDPR are inadequate to constitute standard contractual
clauses. The Board and EDPS have therefore decided to analyse the document in its entirety, including
the appendices. In the opinion of the Board and the EDPS, a contract under Article 28 GDPR or Article
29 EUDPR should further stipulate and clarify how the provisions will be fulfilled. It is in this light that
the Draft SCCs submitted to the Board and EDPS for opinion are analysed.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Adopted

4

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

Adopted standard contractual clauses constitute a set of guarantees to be used as is, as they are
intended  to  protect  data  subjects  and  mitigate  specific  risks  associated  with  the  fundamental
principles of data protection.

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome in general the adoption of standard contractual clauses as a strong
accountability tool that facilitates compliance by controllers and processors to their obligations under
the GDPR and the EUDPR.

The EDPB already issued opinions on standard contractual clauses prepared by the Danish Supervisory
Authority2 and the Slovenian Supervisory Authority 3.

To ensure a coherent approach to personal data protection throughout the Union, the EDPB and the
EDPS strongly welcome the envisaged adoption of SCCs having an EU-wide effect by the Commission.

The  same  set  of  SCCs  will  indeed  apply  irrespective  of  whether  this  relationship  involves  private
entities, public authorities of the Member States or EU institutions or bodies. These EU-wide SCCs will
ensure further harmonisation and legal certainty.

The EDPB and the EDPS also welcome the fact that the same set of SCCs should apply in respect of the
relationship between controllers and processors subject to GDPR and EUDPR respectively.
3.2 Explanation of the methodology applied and structure of the document
For the sake of clarity, the present opinion comprises (i) a core part detailing general comments the
EDPB and the EDPS wish to make and (ii) and an annex where comments of a more technical nature
are made directly to the Draft Decision and the Draft SCCs in order to provide some examples of
possible amendments. There is no hierarchy between the general comments and the technical ones.

In  addition,  the  main  comments  on  the  Draft  Decision  and  the  Draft  SCCs  are  presented  in  two
separate sections. Where needed, cross-references are made to ensure consistency.

For the sake of consistency, where needed, cross-references are also made to the EDPB - EDPS Joint
Opinion 02/2021 on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries.

4 ANALYSIS OF THE DRAFT DECISION AND ITS ANNEX

4.1 Main comments on the Draft Decision

4.1.1 On the scope of the Decision and on the articulation with the other set of Draft SCCs

on transfers

23.

Article 2 of the Draft Decision provides that “the standard contractual clauses as set out in the Annex
may be used in contracts between a controller and a processor who processes personal data on its
behalf, where the controller and the processor are subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725”.

2 Opinion  14/2019  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual  Clauses submitted  by  the DK  SA (Article  28(8)  GDPR):
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_opinion_201914_dk_scc_en.pdf.
3 Opinion  17/2020  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  submitted  by  the SI  SA (Article  28(8)  GDPR):
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/opinjoni-tal-bord-art-64/opinion-172020-draft-
standard-contractual_en.

Adopted

5

24.

25.

26.

The EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that the current wording of this Article is source of legal
uncertainty, as to the situations in which entities will be able to rely on these SCCs.

The EDPB and the EDPS understand that the intention of the Commission is that these SCCs are only
meant to cover intra-EU situations and that these clauses should not be relied upon in case of transfer
within the meaning of Chapter V. In these cases, parties should rather rely on the separate set of
standard  contractual  clauses that has  been  established  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third
countries pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and that is also meant at covering Article 28 (3) and
28 (4) GDPR requirements (“transfer SCCs”).
The EDPB and EDPS consider that the Draft Decision does not provide sufficient clarity to the parties
and the exact scope of the Decision has to be clearly set out and detailed in a specific recital of the
Draft Decision, for instance before the current Recital 10 of the Draft Decision.

27. Moreover, the Board and the EDPS are of the opinion that the current wording of Article 2 of the Draft
Decision does not limit the scope to intra-EU situations as controllers or processors subject to the
GDPR for a given processing activity may be established outside the EU by virtue of Article 3 (2) GDPR.
It should then be clarified whether these SCCs could be relied upon in this situation.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS are rather of the opinion that the intended limitation to intra-EU
situations is not justified. For example, the EDPB and EDPS do not see any reason to prevent entities
from relying on these SCCs – for the sake of complying with Articles 28 (3) and 28 (4) GDPR - if one of
the party is not subject to the GDPR for a given processing activity but is located in an adequate
country. If the scope of the SCCs is broadened to situations involving transfers outside the EU, it should
be made clear to the parties that these SCCs will provide compliance with the requirements under
Article 28 (3) and 28 (4) GDPR or 29 (3) and 29 (4) EUDPR but not all the requirements deriving from
the GDPR or the EUDPR, for instance on the rules related to international transfers.

In  the  view of  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS,  it  is also important  to  clearly  explain in  the  Decision the
articulation and interplay between this set of SCCs and the transfer SCCs. It should be made clear to
the parties, already in the decision, that when parties intend to benefit from SCCs both under Article
28 (7) GDPR and 46 (2) c GDPR, then parties need to rely on transfer SCCs.
4.2 Main comments on the Annex to the Commission implementing decision

4.2.1 Purpose and scope (Clause 1 of the Draft SCCs)

Clause 1 (a) of the Draft SCCs specifies that the purpose of the SCCs is to ensure compliance with the
GDPR and the EUDPR. The EDPB and EDPS are of the opinion that parties to the contract when signing
the clauses should be able to choose to select either references to the GDPR or the EUDPR depending
on the relevant Regulation applicable to their situation.

This way, entities using SCCs under Article 28 GDPR would have no reference to the EUDPR in their
SCCs and entities relying on Article 29 EUDPR would avoid the references to the GDPR. This would
contribute to bring clarity in the relations between the parties that are often less familiar with such
regulations. If so, the SCCs should specify that such choice is possible and adapt the drafting of the
SCCs accordingly.

As provided for in Clauses 1 (b) and (c), and in accordance with Clause 5 (Docking clause), several
controllers and processors, listed in Annex I, can be parties to the SCCs for the processing specified in
Annex II. The EDPB and EDPS believe that, in such case of multiple parties to the contract, the SCCs
(and  their  Annexes)  should  require  from  parties  to  further  detail  and  delimit  the  allocation  of

Adopted

6

33.

34.

35.

36.

responsibilities and indicate clearly which processing is carried out by which processor(s) on behalf of
which controller(s) and for which purposes. The current formulation of these clauses of the SCCs and
the Annexes may lead to confusion as to the qualification and role of each entity with respect to a
given processing operation, especially given the possibility to include a docking clause.

4.2.2 Invariability (Clause 2 of the Draft SCCs)

According to Clause 2 (b) of the Draft SCCs, the parties undertake not to modify them unless additional
clauses “do not contradict, directly or indirectly” the SCCs. To provide controllers and processors with
legal  certainty,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  would  welcome  clarifications  on  the  type  of  clauses  that  the
European Commission would consider as contradicting directly or indirectly SCCs. Such clarification
could  for  instance  indicate  that  clauses  contradicting  SCCs  would  be  those  that  undermine or
negatively impact the obligations in the SCCs or prevent compliance with the obligations contained
the SCCs. For example, clauses allowing processors to use the data for its own purposes would be
contrary to the obligation of the processor to process personal data only on behalf of the controller,
and for the purposes and by the means identified by the latter.

4.2.3 Docking clause (Clause 5 of the Draft SCCs)

Clause 5 of the Draft SCCs allows, as an option, any entity to accede to the SCCs and therefore to
become a new party to the contract as a controller or as a processor. As already mentioned above,
the qualification and the role of such new party to the contract should appear clearly in the Annexes
by requesting parties to further detail and delimit the allocation of responsibilities and indicate clearly
which processing is carried out by which processor(s) on behalf of which controller(s) and for which
purposes.
Clause 5 (a) makes the accession of new parties to the SCCs conditional upon the agreement of all the
other  parties.  In  order  to avoid  any  difficulties  in  practice,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  would welcome a
clarification on the way such agreement could be given by the other parties (whether it should be in
writing or not, the deadline to provide such agreement, the information needed before agreeing).
Also, the EDPB and EDPS would welcome clarification as to whether and how such agreement has to
be given by all the parties, irrespective of their qualification and role in the processing.

4.2.4 Obligations of the Parties (Clause 7 of the Draft SCCs)

Although the title of this clause is “Obligations of the Parties”, Clause 7 (a) in its current form only
makes  reference  to  obligations  imposed  on  the  processor.  Article  28(3)  GDPR  specifies  that  the
controller/processor  contract  shall  set  out  the  rights,  but  also  the  obligations,  of  the  controller.
Consequently, the EDPB and EDPS suggest that a reference is added to this clause to the obligations
imposed on the controller, for the purposes of completeness and enhanced clarity. For instance, the
following  sentence  could  be  added  before  Clause  7  (a): “The  data  controller  has  the  right  and
obligation to make decisions about the purposes and means of the processing of personal data and is
responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  processing  of  personal  data  takes  place  in  compliance  with  the
applicable EU or Member State data protection provisions and the Clauses (including ensuring that the
processing of personal data which the processor is instructed to perform relies on a legal basis pursuant
to Article 6 GDPR or Article 5 EUDPR)”.

37.

Clause  7  (a)  also  provides  that  instructions  should  be  specified  in  Annex  IV  and  that  subsequent
instructions may also be given by the controller. The possibility for the controller to give “subsequent
instructions” is necessary to fully implement the rights and obligations of the parties set out in the

Adopted

7

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

SCCs, but is not unlimited. Any subsequent instruction should be in line with the respective rights and
obligations of the parties set out in the SCCs. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that this should be
clearly specified in the Clause.

Additionally, in order to enhance consistency with the text of 28 (3) (a) of the GDPR and Article 29 (3)
(a) of the EUDPR and to include such obligation directly in the contract, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest
amending the end of the first sentence of Clause 7 (a) with the following underlined wording: “The
data processor shall process personal data only on documented instructions from the data controller,
unless required to do so by Union or Member State law to which the processor is subject; in such a
case, the processor shall inform the controller of that legal requirement before processing, unless that
law prohibits such information on important grounds of public interest”.

Concerning  the  event  of  unlawful  instructions  given by  the  controller,  described  by Article 28 (3)
subparagraph 2 GDPR, the EDPB and EDPS are of the opinion that the contract between the controller
and  the  processor  should  include  some  more  precise  information  as  to  the  consequences  and
solutions envisioned in case the processor informs the controller that, in its opinion, the instruction
infringes  the  GDPR  or  other  applicable  data  protection  provisions.  Therefore,  the European
Commission  should  invite  the parties to include  further  details  about  the  consequences  of  the
notification of an infringing instruction in the contract (e.g. a clause on the possibility for the processor
to suspend the implementation of the affected instruction until the controller confirms, amends or
withdraws its instruction, a clause on the termination of the contract in case the controller persists
with an unlawful instruction).
Concerning the options available to the controller pursuant to Clause 7.2 relating to erasure or return
of data, the EDPB and EDPS call on the European Commission to specify in the Clause itself that the
controller  should  be  able  to  modify  the  choice  made  at  the  time  of signature  of  the  contract
throughout the life cycle of the contract and upon termination.

As a general comment on Clause 7.3 relating to the security of processing, the EDPB and EDPS note
that  all obligations  lie  on the  processor  without  specifying  the  role of the  controller  in  particular
regarding the assessment of the risk which must be performed for security measures in consideration
of the purpose of the processing set by the controller. In some cases, the processor might not be aware
of the exact purpose of the processing, for instance when hosting data. Therefore, and in accordance
with the provision of Article 28.3 of the GDPR, the EDPB and EDPS are of the opinion that the Clause
should be completed with the obligations applying with respect to the security of the processing to
the controller which, in particular, has to provide all useful information to the processor to comply
with the relevant requirements in this respect.
Clause 7.3 (a) of the Draft SCCs provides that the processor has 48 hours at the latest to notify the
controller of a personal data breach. Such delay may be short in some situations and may also trigger
confusion with the delay in which the controller has to notify the personal data breach to the SA (which
starts when the controller is aware of it, i.e.; when the processor notifies him). While taking into
account  the  requirement  for  the  processor  to  notify  the  controller “without  undue  delay” after
becoming aware of the personal data breach in accordance with Article 33.2 GDPR, the EDPB and EDPS
suggest  to  leave the parties  to  provide the  appropriate timeframe to  meet  this  requirement,
depending on the specific situation. The parties should thus be requested to specify in the SCCs the
timeframe agreed for such notification.

43.

Clause 7.4 (c) of the Draft SCCs provides for the possibility for the controller, in order to conduct
audits, to rely on an independent auditor mandated by the processor. This provision is not foreseen

Adopted

8

in Article 28 (3) (h) GDPR and needs to be aligned with this article which provides that the processor
has to allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, that are conducted by the controller
or another auditor mandated by the controller. As such, the processor might propose an auditor, but
the decision about the auditor has to be left to the controller according to Article 28 (3) (h) of the
GDPR.
Clause 7.4 (c) also states that where the controller mandates an independent auditor, it shall bear the
costs, and where the processor mandates an audit, it has to bear the costs of the independent auditor.
As the issue of allocation of costs between a controller and a processor is not regulated by the GDPR,
the EDPB and the EDPS are consequently of the opinion that any reference to the costs should be
deleted from this clause.

44.

45. With regard to Clause 7.7 on international transfers, and more specifically concerning the situation
where a processor relies on a sub-processor in a third country, the EDPB and the EDPS express the
view that point (b) could be more explicit as to the possibility for these two parties to sign one single
set of SCCs which aims at compliance both with Chapter V and Article 28(4) GDPR, if this is indeed the
goal this clause would like to achieve, which would require further clarification. Also it should be
clarified whether parties then need to rely on this set of SCCs or rather on the transfer SCCs also
providing safeguards under Article 28 (3) and (4) of the GDPR.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

Additionally, the EDPB and the EDPS would like to highlight that while Clause 7.7 (b) only refers to the
use of the transfer SCCs, several other transfer tools could be legitimately relied upon for framing the
transfers from the processor to a sub-processor in a third country, and thus suggest using a more
generic formulation referring to transfer tools under Article 46 GDPR.

The EDPB and the EDPS also identified the need to further clarify the last part of point (b) of Clause
7.7, referring to “the conditions for the use of” the transfer SCCs. As this provision suggests that there
may be specific conditions for the use of the transfer SCCs, there is a need to specify what these
conditions are.

4.2.5 Data Subject rights (Clause 8 of the Draft SCCs)

The clause is currently entitled “Data Subject rights” but it is the opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS
that the title does not reflect the content of the clause.

Clauses  8 (a)  and  8 (b) of  the Draft  SCCs indeed  refer  to  the  processor’s  obligation  to  provide
assistance with controller's obligations to respond to requests for exercising data subject's rights laid
down in Chapter III of the GDPR and Chapter III of the EUDPR. However, Clauses 8 (c) and 8 (d) refer
to the assistance of the processor with other types of controller's obligations, in particular under
Articles 32 to 36 GDPR and Articles 33 to 41 EUDPR.

The EDPB and the EDPS therefore suggest to change the title of this clause to "Assistance  to  the
controller" to reflect the different assistance that the processor needs to provide.

As an alternative, the EDPB and EDPS would recommend to the Commission to split the clause in two
to distinguish between the assistance that the processor needs to provide:

 with controller's obligations to respond to requests for exercising data subject's rights laid down

in Chapter III of the GDPR and Chapter III of the EUDPR and

 with controller's obligations under Articles 32 to 36 GDPR and Articles 33 to 41 EUDPR.

Adopted

9

52.

Also, Clause 8 (a) of the Draft SCCs provides that “the data processor shall promptly notify the data
controller about any request received directly from the data subject. It shall not respond to that request
itself, unless and until it has been authorised to do so by the data controller”.

53.

The EDPS and EDPB are of the opinion that this clause should:

54.

55.

56.

57.





further  specify  that  the  responses  to  data  subjects  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the
controller’s instructions (e.g. on content of the response) as set out in Annex IV;

further specify that the scope of processor’s obligation relating to the exercise of data subject’s
rights on behalf of the controller should be described and clearly set out in Annex VII.

Clause 8 (c) (1) as well as Clause 9 (a) require to specify the Supervisory Authority which is competent
but does not envisage the case where there are several controllers parties to the contract and thus
several competent supervisory authorities. Therefore, the possibility to mention several competent
supervisory authorities should be added. In addition, there may be cases where the processing subject
to  the  clauses  is  cross-border  and  a  lead  Supervisory  Authority  is  to  be  identified  as  competent
Supervisory Authority. This should also be reflected in Clauses 8 (c) (1) and 9 (a).

The EDPB and EDPS suggest that, in case processors within the EU are bound by third country laws or
practices affecting  the  compliance with  these Clauses, the  Commission should assess whether  an
additional clause to address these cases is appropriate.

4.2.6 Annexes to the Draft SCCs

The SCCs are designed to be used for data processing agreements, which may involve more than one
party as a controller and/or more than one party as a processor. This implies the risk that, if the
Annexes  are  not  filled  out  appropriately,  the  responsibilities  of  the  parties  are  blurred.  This  risk
increases where new parties subsequently join the contract by using the Docking Clause and/or the
contract covers processing for different purposes or under different circumstances.

The EDPS and EDPB are of the opinion that it is of utmost importance that the Annexes to the SCCs
delimit with absolute clarity the roles and responsibilities of each of the parties in each relationship
and with regard to each processing activity. This is necessary for the parties to be able to determine
who is processing which personal data for whom and for what purpose, and what instructions are
applicable  and  who  is  allowed  to  give  instructions.  Any  ambiguity  would  make  it  impossible  for
controllers or processors to fulfil their obligations under the accountability principle.

58. Where  the  parties  providing  or  using  certain  processing  services,  the  description  (details)  of  the
processing, the applicable technical and organizational measures, the instructions from the controller
concerning  the  processing  of  personal  data,  the  specific  restrictions  and/or  additional  safeguards
concerning  data  of  special  category, the  authorized  sub-processors,  and/or  the  technical  and
organisational measures by which the processor is required to assist the controller differ, the parties
should be required to complete further Annexes I to VII, unless the differences are very limited and
the exceptions clearly described in the Annexes.

59.

In the case of a complex contract, which for example comprises several parties or several purposes, it
must  always  be  clear  which  Annex  (or  in  case  of  limited  deviations  in  one  single  Annex:  which
stipulation of such Annex) applies to which specific situation or relation. It is necessary to clearly
identify and distinguish the different processing activities.

***

Adopted

10

For the European Data Protection Supervisor

For the European Data Protection Board

The European Data Protection Supervisor

The Chair

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski)

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

11

