1/9

 File No.: PS/00359/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 02/04/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by the Superior Police Headquarters of
Catalonia (hereinafter, the claimant), through which he makes a claim against
A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed), owner of the call center
“*** LOCUTORIO.1”, for an alleged infringement of the privacy protection regulations
data.

The following is indicated in the letter of remittance of the Notification Act, in relation to
data protection matters:

“On 01/14/2021, by police officers attached to this Unit, it was
carried out an administrative inspection in the booth called ***LOCUTORIO.1,
located in ***DIRECCION.1 (Barcelona), in which the existence of
numerous client files (handwritten papers, copies of documentation,
receipts of prior appointment NIE), which were stored in said establishment with the
alleged purpose of obtaining prior appointments to carry out different
procedures, extending in the place the mandatory inspection record whose copy is
attached to this letter.

Inside the establishment, the precautionary intervention of
documents containing personal data (name, surnames, document, telephone,
etc.), belonging to third parties, in order to carry out the
corresponding police procedures with the holders of that documentation.

[…]

They proceeded to summon and subsequently take statements from various people whose
data appear in the intervened documentation, which have expressed that they do not
were informed or gave any express or tacit consent
on the provisions of article 6.1.a of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, when providing your personal data to the
managers of the establishment to obtain an appointment.”

SECOND: On 02/15/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by the Superior Police Headquarters of
Catalonia (hereinafter, the claimant), through which he makes a claim against
A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed), owner of the call center
“***LOCUTORIO.2”, for an alleged infringement of the privacy protection regulations
data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

The following is indicated in the letter of remission of the Minutes, in relation to the matter of
Data Protection:

“On 01/14/2021, by police officers attached to this Unit, it was
carried out an administrative inspection in the locutorio called "***LOCUTORIO.2",
located in ***ADDRESS.2, in which the existence of numerous records of
clients (handwritten papers, copies of documentation, receipts of previous appointment
NIE), which were stored in said establishment with the supposed purpose of
obtaining previous appointments to carry out different procedures, extending in
place the mandatory inspection report, a copy of which is attached to this document.

Inside the establishment, a precautionary intervention was carried out on 34
original documents (passports, DNI, NIE, Identity Cards) containing data
personal (name, surnames, document, telephone, etc.), belonging to third parties
people, in order to carry out the corresponding police procedures with the
holders of that documentation.

[…]

They proceeded to summon and subsequently take statements from various people whose
data appear in the intervened documentation, which have expressed that they do not
were informed or gave any express or tacit consent
on the provisions of article 6.1.a of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, when providing your personal data to the
managers of the establishment to obtain an appointment.”

THIRD: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), prior to the admission for processing of both
claims, the Agency transferred them to the claimant on 03/03/2021 and
05/07/2021, respectively.

Regarding the first, the notification was delivered to the respondent on 03/29/2021
through postal mail, as stated in the Postal Receipt Notice. While
that, the transfer of the second claim results in “Missing”. In
In any case, no reply has been received by the respondent.

FOURTH: On 07/06/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to admit for processing the claims presented by the
claimant.

FIFTH: The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed to initiate
sanctioning procedure to the claimed party on 08/16/2021, for the alleged
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: An attempt was made to notify the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure by postal mail, which resulted in “Returned to origin by
incorrect address”, according to the notice issued by Correos. In this way, the notification
occurred through an announcement published in the Official State Gazette on the day
09/29/2021 and a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS is granted so that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 733 and 76 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP).

SEVENTH: The respondent did not make allegations to the agreement to start the
process.

Article 64.2 f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed in the
agreement to open the procedure- establishes that if no allegations are made
within the term established on the content of the initiation agreement, when it
contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility, it may
be considered a motion for a resolution.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infringement of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the respondent has not made allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in
attention to what is established in article 64.2.f LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

EIGHTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure agreed in the fourth point of the part
dispositive “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation
obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimed party collects data from natural persons who come to its
booths to request appointments for administrative procedures, without providing the precise information
to the interested parties in accordance with current regulations on the protection of
personal information.

SECOND: The Spanish Data Protection Agency has notified the party
claimed the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, but has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal on the occasion of the request for an appointment to carry out procedures
administrative constitutes a treatment of data, for which the person in charge
of the treatment must comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD,
providing the interested parties with all the information indicated in said precept.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
swindles of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of adequacy
Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles
46 or 47 or article 49, section 1, second paragraph, reference to the adequate guarantees
adequate or appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact of
that have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of what is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

c) (...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

d) order the person in charge or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22,”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

“They are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

In this case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it.

This Agency has confirmed that the actions of the defendant are not in accordance with the
data protection regulations, since it does not inform customers about the treatment
of the personal data provided by them, as required in article 13 of the
RGPD, indicated in the legal basis III.

Thus, in accordance with the facts exposed, we are faced with a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, by the claimed party.

SAW

In accordance with article 58.2 d), for the commission of this infraction it is appropriate
address a warning when collecting personal data from customers and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infringement in terms of
Data Protection.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution is required to the claimed, as responsible for the treatment, the adequacy
of the information offered to users whose personal data is collected from the
themselves to the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as the
provision of supporting evidence of compliance with the requirements.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this body the adoption of measures to facilitate
information to the people whose personal data it collects, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

