 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 

transfers 

 

Version 2.0 

Adopted on 22 February 2022 

 

 

Adopted - After public consultation 
 

Page 1 of 16 

 

Version history 

 

 

 

Version 2.0 

22 February 2022 

Version 1.0 

7 July 2021 

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 
 
Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation 
 

 

Adopted - After public consultation 
 

Page 2 of 16 

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

The  GDPR  requires  in  its  Article  46  that  controllers/processors  shall  put  in  place  appropriate 
safeguards for transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations. To that end, 
the GDPR diversifies  the appropriate safeguards that may be used by organisations under Article 46 
for  framing transfers  to third countries  by  introducing  amongst  others, codes  of  conduct  as a new 
transfer  mechanism  (articles  40-3  and  46-2-e).  In  this  respect, as  provided  by  Article  40-3,  once 
approved by the competent supervisory authority and having been granted general validity within the 
Union by the Commission, a code of conduct may be adhered to and used by controllers or processors 
not subject to the GDPR located in third countries for the purpose of providing appropriate safeguards 
to data transferred to third countries. Such controllers and processors  are required to make binding 
and  enforceable  commitments,  via  contractual or  other  legally binding  instruments,  to  apply  the 
appropriate safeguards provided  by the code including  with regard to the rights of data subjects as 
required  by  Article  40-3.  The  guidelines  provide  elements  that  should  be  addressed  in  such 
commitments.  

It should  also be  noted that a code intended for  transfers adhered to by a data importer in a third 
country  can  be  relied  on  by  controllers/processors  subject  to  the  GDPR (i.e.  data exporter s)  for 
complying with their obligations  in case of transfers to third countries in  accordance with the GDPR 
without the need for such controllers/processors  to adhere to such code themselves. 

In terms of  content of  a code  intended  for  transfers and for  the purpose  of  providing  appropriate 
safeguards in  the meaning of  Article 46, a code  of conduct  should  address the essential  principles, 
rights and obligations arising under the GDPR for controllers/processors  but also the guarantees that 
are specific to the context of transfers (such as with respect to the issue  of onward transfers, conflict 
of laws in the third country). In light of safeguards provided by existing transfer tools under  Article 46 
GDPR and to  ensure consistency  in  the level  of protection, as well  as taking into  account the CJEU 
Schrems  II ruling1, the  guidelines  provide  a check-list  of  the  elements to  be  covered  by  a code  of 
conduct intended for transfers. 

A code of conduct may originally be drawn up only for the purpose of specifying the application of the 
GDPR in  accordance with  Article  40-2  (“GDPR code”)  or  also  as  a  code  intended  for  transfers  in 
accordance with Article 40-3. As a consequence, depending on the original scope and content of the 
code, it may need to be amended in order to cover all of the above-mentioned elements if it is to be 
used as a tool for transfers. 

These  guidelines,  which  complement  the  EDPB  Guidelines  1/2019  on  Codes  of  Conduct  and 
Monitoring  Bodies  under  Regulation 2016/679,  provide  clarification as  to the  role  of  the different 
actors involved  for the setting of a code to be used as a tool for transfers and the adoption process 
with flow charts. 

 

 

                                                             
1 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems. 

Page 3 of 16 

Adopted - After public consultation 
 

 

Table of contents 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................3 

1 

AIM OF THE GUIDELINES ..................................................................................................5 

2  WHAT ARE CODES OF CONDUCT AS A TOOL FOR TRANSFERS? ...............................................5 

3  WHAT SHOULD BE THE CONTENT OF A CODE OF CONDUCT AS A TOOL FOR TRANSFERS? ..........7 

4  WHO ARE THE ACTORS INVOLVED FOR THE SETTING UP OF A CODE TO BE USED AS A TOOL FOR 
TRANSFERS AND WHAT IS THEIR ROLE?.....................................................................................9 

4.1 

Code owner.............................................................................................................9 

4.2  Monitoring body ......................................................................................................9 

4.3 

4.4 

4.5 

SAs....................................................................................................................... 10 

EDPB .................................................................................................................... 10 

Commission  .......................................................................................................... 10 

5 

ADOPTION PROCESS OF A CODE OF CONDUCT FOR TRANSFERS ........................................... 10 

6  WHAT ARE THE GUARANTEES TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THE CODE? ..................................... 11 

6.1 

6.2 

Binding and enforceable commitments to be implemented .......................................... 11 

Check-list of elements to be included in a code of conduct intended for transfers ........... 13 

Annex 1 - ADOPTION OF CODE OF CONDUCT FOR TRANSFERS – FLOW CHART .............................. 15 

a -Adoption of a transnational code intended for transfers ..................................................... 15 

b- Amendments to a transnational code to be used as a code intended for transfers .................. 15 

 

 

 
 

 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 4 of 16 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of  the Regulation 2016/679/EU of  the European Parliament and of 
the Council  of  27 April  2016  on  the protection of  natural persons  with  regard to the processing  of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC,  (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 2 

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

1  AIM OF THE GUIDELINES 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The aim of these guidelines is  to specify the application of Article 40-3 of the GDPR relating to codes 
of conduct as appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal  data to third countries  in accordance 
with Article 46-2-e) of the GDPR. They also aim to provide practical guidance including on the content 
of such codes of conduct, their adoption process and the actors involved  as well as the requirements 
to be met and guarantees to be provided by a code of conduct for transfers.  

These guidelines should  further act as a clear reference for all SAs, the Board and assist the European 
Commission  (hereinafter “Commission”)  in evaluating codes in a consistent manner and to streamline 
the procedures involved  in  the assessment  process.  They should  also provide  greater transparency, 
ensuring that code owners who intend to seek approval for a code of conduct intended to be used as 
a tool  for  transfers  (“code(s)  intended  for  transfers” hereafter) are fully  aware of  the  process  and 
understand  the formal requirements and  the appropriate thresholds  required for  setting up such  a 
code of conduct. 

The present guidelines complement the EDPB Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring 
Bodies under Regulation 2016/679 which establish  the general framework for the adoption of codes 
of conduct (hereinafter “Guidelines 1/2019”). The considerations set out in Guidelines 1/2019 notably 
regarding the admissibility,  submission  and criteria for approval are thus  also valid in  the context of 
the preparation of codes intended for transfers.  

2  WHAT ARE CODES OF CONDUCT AS A TOOL FOR TRANSFERS? 

The GDPR requires in its Article 46 that controllers/processors shall put in place appropriate safeguards 
for transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations. 

To that end, the GDPR diversifies the appropriate safeguards that may be used by organisations under 
Article 46 for framing transfers to third countries by introducing amongst others, codes of conduct as 

                                                             
2 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 5 of 16 

6. 

7. 

 

a new transfer mechanism (Articles 40-3 and 46-2-e). In this respect, as provided by Article 40-3, once 
approved  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority  (hereafter  “competent  SA”)  and  having  been 
granted general validity within the Union by the Commission,  a code of conduct may also be adhered 
to and  used  by controllers  or processors  not subject  to the GDPR located in  third countries  for the 
purpose  of providing  appropriate safeguards to data transferred to third countries. Such  controllers 
and processors  are required to make binding and enforceable commitments, via contractual or other 
legally binding instruments, to apply the appropriate safeguards provided by the code including with 
regard to the rights of data subjects as required by Article 40-3.  

Codes  of  conduct  may  be  prepared  by  associations  or  other  bodies  representing  categories  of 
controllers  or  processors  (code  owners)  as  specified  by  Article 40-2. As  indicated  in  the Guidelines 
1/2019,  a  non-exhaustive  list  of  possible  code  owners  would  include:  trade  and  representative 
associations,  sectoral  organisations,  academic organisations  and  interest groups.  According  to  the 
same Guidelines, codes intended for transfers could for instance be elaborated by bodies representing 
a sector (e.g. association/federation  from  banking  and finance, insurance  sector) but  could  also  be 
drawn up for separate sectors which have a common processing activity sharing the same processing 
characteristics and needs  (e.g. HR code drawn up  by  association/federation  of  HR professionals,  or 
code  on  children’s  data). Such  codes  would  thus  allow  controllers,  processors  in  third  countries, 
receiving data under the code, to frame these transfers while better addressing the specific processing 
needs  of their sector or common  processing activities. As  such, they could serve as  a more adapted 
tool compared to other transfer mechanisms that are available under Article 46. Codes  of conduct to 
be used as a tool for transfers will notably allow a given controller or processor in a third country to 
providing appropriate safeguards for multiple transfers to a third country that are specific to a sector 
or data processing activity. In addition, entities using the codes of conduct do  not need to be within 
the same group to frame their transfers (as is the case for BCRs).  

It should  also  be noted  that a code intended  for transfers adhered to  by a data importer in  a third 
country  can  be  relied  on  by  controllers/processors  subject  to  the  GDPR (i.e.  data  exporter)  for 
complying with their obligations in  case of  transfers to third countries  in  accordance with the GDPR 
without the need for such controller/processors to adhere to such code themselves. Therefore, a code 
intended  for  transfers could  frame transfers from  controller/processors  that do  not  adhere to that 
code of conduct to controller/processors  in  a third country having adhered to that code of conduct, 
provided  that a commitment to comply  with the obligations set forth by  the code of  conduct when 
processing the transferred data, including, in particular, with regard to the rights of  data subjects, is 
included in a binding instrument. This means that the data importer in the third country has to adhere 
to the code intended for transfers whereas data exporters subject to the GDPR do not necessarily have 
to adhere to such code. Groups  of companies transferring data from entities subject  to the GDPR to 
those outside of the EEA may also use a code of conduct as a transfer tool where the entities outside 
the  EEA  have  adhered  to  that  code  intended  for  transfers  and  have  undertaken  binding  and 
enforceable commitments related to the transfer.  

 

Example n°13: Company XYZ is headquartered in Italy and has affiliates in Germany, the Netherlands, 
Spain and Belgium. For the purpose of managing the IT tools used by the group, Company XYZ uses 
the services of a cloud service provider  based in a third country with no presence in the EU. Data 
processed as part of the use of IT tools involves transfers of data from Company XYZ and its affiliates 

                                                             
3The example is without prejudice to EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer 
tools.  

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 6 of 16 

 

 

to the cloud service provider, for the purpose of storage of data. As the cloud service provider in the 
third country has adhered to a code of  conduct to be used as a tool for transfers relating to cloud 
services approved  under Article 40-5, data flows from Company  XYZ and its affiliates to the cloud 
service provider  can be framed with the code of conduct  to which the cloud service provider  has 
adhered. In this case, the use of  a code of  conduct by the cloud  service provider instead of other 
transfer tools such as BCRs appears more appropriate to the extent that a code of conduct does not 
require the controller/processor acting as importers to have a presence in the EEA while a presence 
in the EEA is  required for a group of companies  for using BCRs. The code of conduct also presents 
benefits for addressing multiple transfers of data with a single tool compared to (fully) contractual 
solutions  such as SCCs. 

8. 

A code  intended for  transfers could  also frame transfers from  controllers/processors  subject to the 
GDPR to controllers/processors  in the third country having adhered to the same code of conduct for 
transfers, provided  in any case as explained above that a commitment to comply with the obligations 
of the code of  conduct including  with respect to the rights of data subjects, as they are enshrined in 
the GDPR, is included in a binding instrument.  

 

 

Example n°2: An association representing categories of controllers/processors involved in the same 
type  of  research activities  for  the  health  sector  and  involving  regular transfers  of  data to  third 
country controllers/processors develop a code of conduct which is also intended to be used as a tool 
for transfers. Relevant controllers/processors in the EEA adhere to this code of conduct which is also 
being  adhered to  by  third  country  controllers/processors.  The transfers  of  data to third  country 
controllers/processors  as part of the research activities can be framed with this code of conduct. 

9. 

To the extent that it is most likely that codes intended for transfers would be used by relevant entities 
for framing transfers from more than one Member State and considering that those  codes of conduct 
should  have  general  validity  according  to  Article  40-9  GDPR,  they  would  as  such  qualify  as 
“transnational codes” as defined in the Guidelines 1/20194.  

3  WHAT SHOULD BE THE CONTENT OF A CODE OF CONDUCT AS A 

TOOL FOR TRANSFERS? 

10.  As  set out  above, a code of  conduct  intended  for transfers is  one  of  the tools  that can be used  by 
organisations  performing  particular  data  processing  activities  -  e.g.  within  a  specific  sector  or  a 
common processing activity which share the same processing characteristics and needs - for providing 
appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal data to a third country in accordance with Article 46.  

11.  Also, the provisions  of  Article 40-3, which refer to the fact that codes intended for  transfers may be 
adhered  to  by  controllers/processors  not  subject  to  the GDPR under  Article  3, suggest that  codes 
intended  for  transfers  are,  in  part,  or  as  a  whole,  more  specifically  designed  for  third  country 
controllers/processors.  Therefore, according to the EDPB, the object of a code intended for transfers 

                                                             
4 Transnational codes refer to a code which covers processing activities in more than one Member State. See 
Guidelines 1/2019, Appendix 1 – Distinction between national and transnational codes.   

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 7 of 16 

 

should  be  to  set  out  also  the  rules  that  will  need  to  be  complied  with  by  the  third  country 
controller/processor  (the data importer) to ensure that personal data is adequately protected in line 
with  the  requirements  of  Chapter  V  GDPR  when  being  processed  by  such  third  country 
controller/processor (i.e. data importer).  

12.  More  specifically  in  terms  of  content, for  the purpose  of  providing  appropriate  safeguards  in  the 

meaning of Article 46, the following elements need to be addressed: 

-  Essential  principles, rights  and obligations  arising under  the GDPR for  controllers/processors; 

and 

-  Guarantees that are specific  to the context of  transfers (such  as  with respect to the  issue  of 

onward transfers, conflict of laws in the third country).  

13. 

In this regard, it is worth noting that a code of conduct may originally be drawn up only for the purpose 
of specifying  the application of the GDPR in accordance with Article 40-2 (“GDPR code”) or also  as a 
code  intended  for  transfers in  accordance with  Article 40-3.  As  a  consequence,  depending  on  the 
original scope and content of the code, it may need to be amended in order to cover all of the above-
mentioned elements if it is to be used as a tool for transfers.  

 

 

Example n°3: Association ABC gathering organisations operating in the direct marketing sector at 
EU level has adopted a code of conduct which aims at specifying the application of the transparency 
principle and associated requirements under the GDPR as part of the processing activities for such  
sector. The Association wishes to use this code of conduct as a tool for framing transfers outside the 
EEA. To the extent that the code of conduct is focused  on the transparency principle, it would need 
to  be  amended  in  order  to  cover  additionally  the  appropriate  safeguards  that are  required  for 
international transfers of personal data, all essential principles and main requirements arising under 
the GDPR (other than transparency) as well as include guarantees that are specific to the context of 
transfers in order to obtain approval for such code as a code intended for transfers. 

14. 

In any event, in line with the clarifications provided by the EDPB in its Guidelines 1/2019, all elements 
providing for appropriate safeguards as referred above will need to be set out in the code in a manner 
that facilitates  their  effective  application  and  specifies  how  they  apply  in  practice to  the  specific 
processing activity or sector5.  

15.  A check-list of the elements to be included in a code intended for transfers so that it can be considered 
as providing  appropriate safeguards is further provided and explained under section 6 of the present 
guidelines. 

                                                             
5 See Guidelines 1/2019, section 6.  

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 8 of 16 

 

4  WHO ARE THE ACTORS INVOLVED FOR THE SETTING UP OF A CODE 

TO BE USED AS A TOOL FOR TRANSFERS AND WHAT IS THEIR 
ROLE? 

4.1  Code owner   

16. 

The code owner is the entity, association/federation or other body that will prepare a code of conduct 
intended for transfers or amend an approved “GDPR code” for using it as a tool for transfers and submit 
it to the competent SA for approval6. 

4.2  Monitoring body 

17.  As for any code of conduct, a monitoring body will need to be identified as part of a code intended for 
transfers and accredited by the competent SA in line with Article 41. More precisely, its role will be to 
monitor that third country controllers/processors  having adhered to such code comply with the rules 
set out in the code7.  

18.  Considering that codes of conduct intended for transfers are also or more specifically aimed for third 
country  controllers/processors,  it  has  to  be  made  sure  that  monitoring  bodies  are  capable  of 
effectively monitoring the code as specified in the Guidelines 1/2019. Monitoring bodies  acting in the 
framework of codes for transfers could be located either only inside or also outside of the EEA provided 
that the concerned monitoring body has an establishment in the EEA. In this context, the monitoring 
body’s establishment in the EEA shall be the one where the headquarters of the monitoring body are, 
or the place where the final decisions concerning monitoring activities are taken and also requires that 
an EEA entity shall be able to control the monitoring body’s entities outside the EEA and demonstrate 
full accountability for all decisions and actions (including its liability for any breaches).  

19. 

In addition, a monitoring body  in the EEA may subcontract its activities to an external entity outside 
the EEA, acting on its behalf, provided that such entity maintains the same competence and expertise 
as required  by  the code of  conduct  as well  as by  the accreditation requirements, and that the  EEA 
monitoring body is able to ensure effective control over the services provided by the contracting entity 
and retains the decision-making power about monitoring activities. In order to ensure compliance with 
this  accreditation  requirements  when  the  monitoring  body  subcontracts  parts  of  its  tasks,  the 
monitoring body shall establish a contract or any other legal act under European Union law binding on 
the subcontractor with regard to the monitoring body  in such a way that all subcontracted tasks will 
meet the requirements of the GDPR. Recourse to subcontracting does not result in the delegation of 
responsibilities:  in any case, the monitoring body remains responsible  for monitoring compliance with 
the code of conduct to the supervisory authority. The monitoring body ensures that all subcontractors 
meet  the  requirements  set  out  by  this  accreditation requirements  document,  notably  as  regards 
independence, absence of conflict of interest and expertise. The monitoring body includes a specific 
clause in the contract signed with subcontractors to ensure  the confidentiality of  personal data that 
may, where applicable, be disclosed to the subcontractor during the monitoring tasks and puts in place 
appropriate safeguards in case of transfer of  such personal data to its subcontractors.  

                                                             
6 For further details on the requirements relating to the code owner, please refer to the definition of code 
owner in section 2 and section 5.3 of Guidelines 1/2019. 
7 For further details on the need to set up a monitoring body under a code of conduct, please refer to sections 
11 and 12 of Guidelines 1/2019. 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 9 of 16 

 

4.3  SAs 

20. 

In accordance with Article 40-5, the role of  the competent SA  will  be to approve  the draft code of 
conduct intended for transfers or amendments to it for using it as a tool for transfers and to accredit 
the  monitoring  body  identified  as  part  of  the  code  with  respect  to  additional  accreditation 
requirements relating to codes of conduct for transfers.  

4.4  EDPB 

21. 

In accordance with Articles 40-7 and 64-1-b, the EDPB will be asked to provide an opinion on the draft 
decision of a SA aiming to approve a code intended for transfers or amendment to a code of conduct 
for using it also as a tool for transfers8.  

4.5  Commission  

22.  As provided by Article 40-9, the Commission  may decide by adopting an implementing act that a code 
intended for transfers and approved by  a SA has general validity within the Union. Only those codes 
having been granted general validity within the Union may be relied upon for framing transfers.  

5  ADOPTION PROCESS OF A CODE OF CONDUCT FOR TRANSFERS 

23. 

It results from Articles 40-5 and 40-9 that to be adopted, a code intended for transfers shall first be 
approved  by a competent SA in  the EEA and then recognized by the Commission  as having general 
validity within the Union by way of implementing act.  

24.  As mentioned in section 2 above, to the extent that codes intended for transfers are most likely to be 
used by controllers/processors  for framing transfers from more than one Member State, they would 
as such qualify as “transnational codes” and should follow the procedure for approval for transnational 
codes, including  the need for an Opinion  from the EDPB, as specified in section 8 and Annex 4 of the 
Guidelines 1/20199. In practice different scenarios may arise when an association/federation or other 
body intends to adopt a code of conduct for transfers:  

 

-  A draft code is designed as a “GDPR code” as well as intended to be used as a tool for transfers 
by third country controller/processors. Such draft code would first need to be approved by the 
competent SA according to the procedure  for transnational codes, including  an Opinion  from 
the Board, and then recognized by the Commission  as having general validity within the Union 
in accordance with Article 40-9. After completion of these steps, controllers/processors  in third 
country may adhere to the code and the code may be used for providing appropriate safeguards 
for transfers of data to third countries.  

in  view  of  being  also  used  as  a  tool 

-  A code  of  conduct  is  initially  designed and  approved  as a “GDPR code”. Such  code  is  further 
expanded 
for  transfers  by  third  country 
controller/processors.  The  amendment  to  the  code  relating  to  transfers  will  need  to  be 
submitted to the competent SA for approval which will follow the procedure for transnational 
codes involving an Opinion from the Board. The amended code will then need to be recognized 

                                                             
8  See  the  EDPB  Document  on  the  procedure  for  the  development  of  informal  “Codes  of  Conduct 
sessions”  https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_documentprocedurecodesconductsessio
ns_en.pdf.  
9 See Guidelines 1/2019, Appendix 1 – Distinction between national and transnational codes.   

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 10 of 16 

 

by the Commission  as having general validity within the Union in accordance with Article 40-9 
after  which  controllers/in  third  country  may  adhere  to  such  code  and  use  it  for  providing 
appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal data to third countries. 

25.  A flow chart set out in the annex to the guidelines details the procedural steps for adopting a code of 

conduct intended for transfer in consideration of the above possible  scenarios.  

6  WHAT ARE THE GUARANTEES TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THE CODE? 

6.1  Binding and enforceable commitments to be implemented 

26. 

The GDPR requires in its Article 40-3 that controllers and processors not subject to the GDPR adhering 
to a code intended for transfers take binding and enforceable commitments, via  contractual or other 
legally binding  instruments, to  apply the appropriate safeguards provided  by the  code including ,  in 
particular, with regard to the rights of data subjects. 

27.  As specified by the GDPR, such commitments may be taken by using a contract, which appears as the 
most  straightforward  solution.  Other  instruments  could  also  be  used,  provided  that  these 
controller/processors  adhering  to  the  code  are able  to  demonstrate  the  binding  and  enforceable 
character of such other means. 

28. 

In any event, the instrument needs  to have a binding  and enforceable nature in accordance with EU 
law and should also be binding and enforceable by data subjects as third-party beneficiaries.  

29.  A  code  of  conduct  as  a transfer tool  can  have Code  members  located in  the EEA, as  well  as  Code 
members located outside the EEA. A distinction between Code members located in the EEA and Code 
members located outside the EEA is the direct application of the GDPR to the former but not the latter 
(provided that the latter does not fall under Article 3.2 GDPR).  

30.  As  regards  the  Code  members  located  outside  the  EEA,  there  is  a  need  to  ensure  that  their 
commitment to  adhere  to  a “specified  level  of  data protection” guarantees  that the level  of  data 
protection provided  for in  the GDPR is  not  undermined. This  is  a prerequisite  for their eligibility  to 
participate in the code of conduct as a transfer tool. 

31. 

To this end, a contract could be signed by the controller/processor  in the third country (i.e. the data 
importer) with, for example, the entity transferring data under the code (i.e. data exporter). In practice, 
it could  use an  existing contract if  any  (e.g. service agreement between the exporter and  the data 
importer or the contract to be put  in place in accordance with  Article 28 GDPR in case of importer-
processors)  in  which the  binding  and enforceable  commitments could  be  included.  Another option 
could be to rely on a separate contract by adding to the code intended for transfers a model contract 
that would need to be then signed by, for instance, controllers/processors  in the third country and all 
of its data exporters.  

32. 

There should be flexibility to choose the most appropriate option depending on the specific situation.  

33.  When  the code  of conduct  is  to be  used  for transfers  and onward transfers  by a processor  to sub-
processors,  a  reference  to  the  code  of  conduct  and  the  instrument  providing  for  binding  and 
enforceable  commitments  should  also  be  made  in  the  processor  agreement signed  between  the 
processor and its controller, where possible.  

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 11 of 16 

 

 

exporter)  

TRANSFER 

code of conduct intended for 

Controller or Processor in India not 
subject to the GDPR adhering to the 

Binding and enforceable commitments by the data importer (example)  
 
 
Controller subject 
 
to the GDPR (Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, the contract or other instrument must  set out that the controller/processor  commits to 
comply with the rules specified in the code intended for transfers when processing data received under 
the code. The contract or other instrument shall also provide for mechanisms allowing to enforce such 
commitments in case of breaches by the controller/processor  in particular with respect to the rights 
of data subjects whose data will be transferred under the code.  

Contract with binding and 
enforceable commitments  

transfers (Data importer) 

 

34. 

35.  More particularly, the contract or other instrument should  address:  

-  The existence of a right for data subjects whose data are transferred under the code to enforce 

the rules under the code as third-party beneficiaries;  

-  The issue of liability in case of breaches to the rules under the code by code member outside of 
the EEA. The code  shall  include  a jurisdiction  clause  noting  that data subjects  shall  have  the 
possibility in case of violation of rules under the code by a code member outside the EEA to bring 
a claim, by invoking their third-party beneficiary right, including for compensation, against that 
entity  before  an  EEA  SAs  and  EEA  court  of  the  data subject’s  habitual  residence.  The  code 
member outside the EEA shall accept the decision  of  the data subject  to do so. Data subjects 
shall also have the possibility  to bring any claim arising out or from the respect by the importer 
of the code of conduct against the data exporter before the SA or the court of the data exporter’s 
establishment  or  of  the  data  subject’s  habitual  residence.  This  liability  should  be  without 
prejudice to the mechanisms to be implemented under the code with the monitoring body that 
can also  take action against controllers/processors  in  accordance with  the  code  by  imposing 
corrective measures. The data importer and the data exporter should also accept that the data 
subject  may  be  represented  by  a  not-for-profit  body,  organisation or  association  under  the 
conditions set out in Article 80(1) of the GDPR.  

-  The existence of a right for the exporter to enforce against the code member acting as importer 

the rules under the code as a third-party beneficiary. 

-  The  existence  of  an  obligation  of  the  importer  to  notify  the  exporter  and  the  Supervisory 
Authority of the data exporter of any detected violation of the code by the same code member 
acting as an importer outside the EEA and of any corrective measures taken by the monitoring 
body in response to that violation.  

 

 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 12 of 16 

 

6.2  Check-list of elements to be included in a code of conduct intended  for transfers  

36. 

In  light  of  safeguards  provided  by  existing  transfer  tools  under  Article  46  GDPR (such  as  binding 
corporate rules), and to ensure consistency  in  the level of  protection, as well as taking into account 
the CJEU Schrems II ruling10, the EDPB is of  the view that to be considered  as providing  appropriate 
safeguards, the elements to be covered by a code of conduct intended for transfers should include the 
following:  

-  A description of transfers to be covered by the code (nature of data transferred, categories of 

data subjects, countries); 

-  A  description  of  the  data  protection  principles  to  be  complied  with  under  the  code 
(transparency, fairness  and  lawfulness,  purpose  limitation,  data minimization  and  accuracy, 
limited storage of  data, processing of  sensitive  data, security, for processors  compliance  with 
instructions from the controller), including rules on using processors or sub-processors and rules 
on onward transfers; 

-  Accountability principle measures to be taken under the code; 

-  The setting up of  an appropriate governance through DPOs or other privacy staff in charge of 

compliance with data protection obligations resulting from the code;  

-  The existence of a suitable training program on the obligations arising from the code; 

-  The existence of a data protection audit (by either internal or external auditors) or other internal 
mechanism for monitoring compliance with the code, independently from the oversight to be 
performed by  the monitoring  body  as for  any code  of conduct; Whereas  the aim of the data 
protection audit program is  to ensure and demonstrate compliance with the code, the aim of 
the audits performed  by the monitoring body  is to assess  whether the applicant is eligible  to 
participate to the code, continues to be eligible once it is a member, and whether sanctions are 
necessary in case of infringements;  

-  Transparency measures, including easy access, regarding the use of the code in particular with 

respect to third party beneficiary rights;  

-  The  provision  of  data subject  rights  of  access,  rectification, erasure, restriction, notification 
regarding rectification or erasure or restriction, objection to processing, right not to be subject 
to decisions  based solely on automated processing, including profiling as those provided for by 
Articles 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, and 22 GDPR; 

-  The creation of third-party beneficiary rights for data subjects to enforce the rules of the code 
as third-party beneficiaries (as well as the possibility  to lodge a complaint before the competent 
SA and before EEA Courts);   

-  The  existence  of  an  appropriate  complaint  handling  process  for  data  protection  rules 
infringements  maintained  by  the  monitoring  body  which  if  deemed  appropriate  may  be 
complemented with an internal procedure to the code  member for managing complaints; 

-  A warranty that at the time of adhering to the code, the third country controller/processor has 
no  reasons to believe  that the laws applicable to the processing  of personal  data in  the third 
country of  transfer, prevent it from  fulfilling  its obligations  under the code and to implement 

                                                             
10 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems. 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 13 of 16 

 

where necessary together with the exporter supplementary measures11 to ensure the required 
level of protection under EEA law12. In addition, a description of the steps to be taken (including 
notification  to  the  exporter  in  the  EEA,  implementation  of  appropriate  supplementary 
measures)  in  case  after having  adhered  to  the  code  the  third  country  controller/processor 
becomes  aware of  any  legislation  of  the  third  country  preventing  compliance  by  the  code 
member with commitments taken as part of the code and measures to be taken in case of third 
country government access requests;  

-  The mechanisms for dealing with changes to the code; 

-  The consequences of withdrawal of a member from the code;  

-  A commitment for the code member and monitoring body to cooperate with EEA SAs;  

-  A commitment for the code member to accept to be subject to the jurisdiction of EEA SAs in any 

procedure aimed at ensuring compliance with the code of conduct and EEA Courts;  

-  The  criteria  of  selection  of  the  monitoring  body  for  a  code  intended  for  transfers  i.e.  to 
demonstrate that the monitoring body has the requisite level of expertise to carry out its role in 
an effective manner for such a code intended for data transfers  

37. 

38. 

In any event, it should be noted that these elements constitute minimum guarantees which may need 
to be complemented with additional commitments and measures depending on the transfer at stake 
under the code of conduct.  

The EDPB will evaluate the functioning of these guidelines in light of the experience gained with their 
application  in  practice and  provide  further  guidance  to  clarify  the  application  of  the  above  listed 
elements. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

                                                             
11 The European Data Protection Board has published a Recommendation on measures that supplement 
transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data which can assist in the 
assessment relating to the third country and for identifying appropriate supplementary measures. 
12 This is based on the understanding that laws and practices that respect the essence of the fundamental rights 
and freedoms and do not exceed what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard one 
of the objectives listed in Article 23(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, are not in contradiction with the safeguards 
specified in the code of conduct intended for transfers. 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 14 of 16 

 

ANNEX 1 - ADOPTION OF CODE OF CONDUCT FOR TRANSFERS – FLOW 
CHART 

a -Adoption  of a transnational code intended  for transfers 

 Transnational code intended for transfers 

Approval by competent SA follows 

EDPB Opinion endorsing draft 

decision of competent SA 

EDPB Opinion recommends 

amendments to draft decision of 

competent SA/code 

Notification by EDPB of opinion 

Competent SA communicates to 
EDPB if it maintains or amends the 

decision  

Commission 

Code owner submits amended code 

to competent SA  

Recognition of general validity to 

code within Union 

Approval by competent SA follows 

EDPB Opinion on the new 

amendments endorsing (new) draft 

decision of competent SA  

Notification by EDPB of opinion 

Commission 

Recognition of general validity to 

code within the Union 

Adopted - After public consultation 

Page 15 of 16 

 

b- Amendments  to a transnational code to be used as a code intended  for transfers 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Transnational code 

Code amended by code owner for covering 

transfers  

Submission  of amendment to competent SA  

Assessment of amendment to code by 

competent SA 

Submission  of draft decision  for approval of 

amendment  

EDPB 

 

EDPB Opinion endorsing draft 

decision of competent SA 

 

 

 

Competent SA adopts 

 

decision approving 

 

amended code 

 

 

 

 

Notification of 

opinion   

Commission 

Recognition of general validity to 

code within the Union 

Adopted - After public consultation 

EDPB Opinion with amendments to 

draft decision of competent SA 

Competent SA communicates to 
EDPB if it maintains or amends the 

decision  

Code owner submits amended code 

to competent SA 

Notification of 

opinion   

Approval follows EDPB opinion on 
the new amendments endorsing 
(new) draft decision of competent 

SA 

Page 16 of 16 

