
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/19/2019
                                Artificial intelligence - and its consequences On September 17, 2019, the state commissioners for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-Württemberg will present an event on the topic of "Artificial intelligence and the consequences for business, research, Work and Society”.
Artificial intelligence is one of the most important topics of our time. This new technology, which covers not only the digital space but our entire living environment, is associated not only with hopes and fantasies, but also with serious fears. Already at the 97th conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) in April 2019, chaired by Prof. Dr. Kugelmann developed the "Hambach Declaration on Artificial Intelligence". The data protection supervisory authorities want to accompany the development of artificial intelligence systems constructively and critically. Science, politics and users are called upon to use the associated opportunities in compliance with data protection.
Both the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate Prof. Dr. Kugelmann and the LfDI Baden-Württemberg Dr. Brink have been dealing with the topic of artificial intelligence for years as part of their supervisory and advisory role. At this event, however, they will leave the floor to the invited speakers and their expert opinion. Speakers will be representatives of the Enquête Commission "Artificial Intelligence - Social Responsibility and Economic, Social and Ecological Potential" of the German Bundestag, i.e. Ronja Kemmer (CDU/CSU), Lena-Sophie Müller, Saskia Esken (SPD), Dr. Petra Sitte (The Left), Dr. Anna Christmann (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) and Professor Doris Aschenbrenner from the Technical University of Delft (NL). A panel discussion will then provide an opportunity for questions and comments from the audience.
We cordially invite you to our event on Tuesday, September 17 at 5 p.m. in the Ernst Bloch Center. At the subsequent reception, there is the opportunity to exchange impressions over wine and pretzels.
For our planning, we ask that you register in advance at: kult(at)lfdi.bwl.de . The number of seats is limited.
                                return
                            



