 

 

 
press release
 
Ansbach, January 17, 2022

 
 

 

 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision
- press office -
 
Email: presse@lda.bayern.de
Telephone: 0981/180093-159
 
 

 

Self-disclosures from prospective tenants or

Prospective tenants demanded - what is data protection law

allowed?

Focused examination in the area of housing management

Must the future landlord or real estate agent commissioned by them
Find out how many people are interested in renting in the apartment on offer
want to move in? May be asked about the job and income of the interested party
will? Can proof of salary be requested to support these statements? Can even the template
a self-assessment from a credit agency?

Because exactly such questions and complaints regularly the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
achieve, the second focused exam in the new series of exams is dedicated to the topic of "self-disclosures
of prospective tenants".

At least in metropolitan areas, it is normal for people who are interested in an apartment to already
with regard to an initial inspection of an apartment, a comprehensive form for self-disclosure
is made available. This should usually be filled out in advance and if the visitors like it
Apartment of the owner or the real estate agent commissioned by the landlord
be handed over.

Even when looking for new tenants and initiating tenancies
a large amount of information may legitimately be queried with a view to making a decision,
not every piece of information that is of interest to the landlord is required at all times.

Rather, according to the points in time on the way between the establishment of contact by the
Prospective tenants and the imminent conclusion of a
rental agreement can be distinguished. So
is one thing when making contact and making an agreement
Information about the profession and income is not yet required at the time of the viewing appointment. Only when the
the person viewing the apartment is still interested in the apartment during or after the inspection
For example, it is permissible to ask about the number of people moving in, occupation and income.
If at the end of the selection process there is one person left with whom the landlord will
If you want to conclude a rental contract, you can also submit a
Self-disclosure from a credit agency may be required.

test questions

the
www.lda.bayern.de/de/kontrollen_stabsstelle.html published.

information

such as

to the

to

test complex

will

under

https://

