press info

 

 

Save the Date - September 13, 2023 -

 

"AI and School"

The TLfDI invites you !

Erfurt, April 25th, 2023: This year I would like to invite you again to a

Invite the TLfDI event to the Augustinian monastery in Erfurt. This time spins

is all about the topic "AI and school". We are expecting numerous guests again

among them many pupils, but above all teachers,

since the event by the Thuringian Institute for teacher training, curriculum development

and Media (ThILLM) is recognized as a training event.

ChatGPT is on everyone's lips. We want that with “homework” from the audience

test directly on site. Our questions also deal with AI, among other things

as a tool to promote teaching: What is AI doing to schools? can

do the students process that? What are they based on? To say something

the teacher? How should schools reorient themselves? How is the data

protection when using AI in schools? Let's go with celebrities

Guests looking for answers to our above questions.

As speakers, e.g. the BfDI, Prof. Ulrich Kelber and the State Secretary
of the Federal Ministry of Education, Dr. Jens Brandenburg for welcome and keynote,
Hendrik Haverkamp - Coordinator for digitality at the Evangelisch Stiftisches Gymna-
sium Gütersloh, Prof. Jana Dittmann and Dr. Robert Altschaffel from the University of
deburg, Prof. Dr. Petra Grimm as ethicists and Prof. Dr. Grossejda Kasneci from the
TUM can be won. You can find more information on the leaflet.

 

Cordial invitation!

 

 

When? September 13, 2023 from 10:00 a.m. to approx. 4:00 p.m

Where? in the Augustinian monastery in Erfurt

You can already register at poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de

report. The number of participants is limited to 150 people.

                                                 

      dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

www.tlfdi.de

Postal address : PO Box 900455
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

