1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00407/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 8, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by Don A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against GRUPO RESIDENCIAL
R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a system
video surveillance system installed at *** ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

That the denounced Community has a system of 24 video surveillance cameras

lancia, of which three are focusing on the access streets of the urbanization.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

The request for information was received by the respondent entity, not

having received a response to it.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 14
November 2019.

FOURTH: On January 7, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.
The start agreement was notified on January 10, 2020, as stated in the
Electronic notification service certificate.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the claim at the time of this resolution
tion has not submitted a brief of allegations, so what is indicated is applicable
in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, which in its section f) establishes that in case
of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initial agreement
ciation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pro-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

precise statement about the imputed responsibility, so we proceed to
dictate Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
Data in this procedure are considered proven facts the following

FACTS

FIRST: GRUPO RESIDENCIAL R.R.R., has a 24-hour system installed.
video surveillance cameras, at ***ADDRESS.1 of which three are focusing
to the access streets of the urbanization.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Directorate
tora of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow it to be considered lawful

the processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of processing
to, provides that the personal data will be "adequate, pertinent and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of excessive data must be restricted.
you or proceed to delete them.

The relevance in the treatment of the data must occur both in the
the collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on the same.
mos.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, re-
referring specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the processing
of images in public places can only be carried out -if applicable and prior compliance
compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Security Forces and Bodies
unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 of the LO-
PDGDD for natural or legal persons, public or private, respecting the con-
conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if
the cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

ary to capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, although the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimal and important part
dispensable from the public road, which is inevitably captured.

In order for this exception on the protection of private spaces to apply,
cable, there shall be no alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the
responsible for the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is minimal.
mo possible. In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

III

In accordance with the above, the treatment of images through a system
subject of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, you must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
established in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed.
since the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out,
unless there is government authorization, by the Security Forces and Bodies.
Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without the consent
ment of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or in the
inside, it may be necessary to ensure the security purpose the recording of
a portion of the public road. That is, cameras and camcorders installed with fi-
security officers will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is im-
dispensable for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said financing will also be collected.
ity. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the minimum portion-
mind necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. It's not per-
mitigated, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with
the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the en-
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the public spaces
surrounding spaces, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space.
guarded man

IV

The claim is based on the illegality of the installation by the claimed
of a video surveillance system, since there are three video cameras that are located
recording public roads and pedestrians. There is no authorization from the
Ministry of the Interior for the placement of the same recording public road. So,
GROUP RESIDENTIAL R.R.R., has installed a system of 24 video cameras
surveillance, in ***ADDRESS.1 of which three are focusing on the streets of action
process of urbanization, and that they would capture images of public areas unintentionally.
provided; without the claimant having argued otherwise.

In accordance with the foregoing, this Agency considers that the regulation has been breached.
data protection requirement due to the existence of video surveillance cameras installed
given by GRUPO RESIDENCIAL R.R.R., at ***ADDRESS.1 that capture images
of public roads in excess.

v

The corrective powers of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. In-
Among them are the power to sanction with a warning -article 58.2 b)-,
the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

It is considered that the exposed facts fail to comply with the provisions of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, for which they could suppose the commission of an infraction typified in
Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

 “Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
higher amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infractions indicated
in the previous paragraph are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, with
conform to article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

SAW

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD,
in your art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, it is taken into account that it is a Community of pro-
owners without prior infraction accredited in this Agency, considering correct sanc-
act with warning.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: NOTICE GRUPO RESIDENCIAL R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a
infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,

SECOND: REQUEST GRUPO RESIDENCIAL R.R.R., so that within the term of
ONE MONTH from the notification of this act, prove compliance with the
following measures:

-That he has redirected the three video surveillance cameras to the minimum

essential for their purpose and do not record public roads.

THIRD
 

 : NOTIFY this resolution to GRUPO RESIDENCIAL R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

