1/24

 Procedure No.: EXP202100876 (PS/00136/2022)

RESOLUTION SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following.

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated 07/02/21, you have entered this Agency, writing presented by
D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, "the complaining party"), against the entity, AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING S.L. with CIF.: B87781795, (hereinafter, "the claimed party") by the
alleged violation of data protection regulations: Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection
of Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the
Free Circulation of these Data (GDPR), Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD)
and based on the following facts:

“After exercising my rights of access, opposition and limitation of the treatment
for receiving a commercial communication by SMS on my phone from the
MÁSMOVIL identification without my having requested or authorized it,
File a claim with the AEPD for lack of response.

The AEPD resolved in RESOLUTION R/00155/2021 (PS/161/2021) that, in the
Within 10 business days, a certification will be sent to me
attends to the right exercised or is denied with reasons indicating the
causes, and that it be communicated to the Agency within the same period.

After that, I received a response from the claimed entity indicating that
they had obtained my data through the form to participate in the raffle
of a trip for two people published on the website www.premium-
sales.es, which is absolutely false.

After telling them that I had not entered my personal data through
that form, and therefore did not have my consent, the
claimed is limited to answering that it does not have the necessary technology to
to be able to certify the identity of the people who send the data through
the forms enabled on their websites.

In addition, this is a recurring strategy of the one claimed, since it was
also used in PS/00281/2018: I have never provided my data to the
website www.premium-sales.es or to participate in a raffle or for
my data was used for commercial purposes, or anything else to
website www.premium-sales.es, adding that the company AD735 DATA
MEDIA ADVERSITING, S.L. You cannot prove something that has not happened. I
I have never provided my data to your website.

This entity was already sanctioned in PS/00283/2018, (fine 2,000) and is
involved in other procedures in which non-compliance is verified
of the data protection regulations (E/10918/2019,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/24

TD/00143/2019,
TD/00035/2021).

  TD/00320/2019,

  TD/00269/2020,

  TD/00003/2021,

 

SECOND:
  Dated 08/06/21 and 08/18/21, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD Law, this Agency sent two separate letters
to the claimed party requesting information regarding what is stated in the
claim.

THIRD: On 10/13/21, a response letter was received from the entity
claimed to the request for information made by this Agency, in which, among others,
indicates that:

“On 03/01/21, a response to the Transfer of
Claim and Request for Information number E/07541/2020 originated by
a Transfer of claim and request for information EXP202100876: As and
As has been proven in this proceeding, the request for
access of the user and the response was transferred to the affected person on the day
03/01/21.

Subsequently, the affected person informs AD735 that he did not participate in the draw
organized by AD735. On the same day 03/01/21, you will be answered in the following
terms: "As the claimant has already been answered, AD735, like the
rest of the companies in the digital marketing sector and other sectors, do not
can guarantee with absolute certainty that the data received is correct.
In this sense, sometimes records are received indicating names
false, aliases or some misindicated data. Sometimes records are received from
minors who indicate an erroneous date of birth to prove
an age of majority that they do not have and thus be able to qualify for the prizes
promoted.

It is for this reason that AD735 warns users, in the privacy policy
privacy, the need to provide accurate and truthful data, in addition to, in
In the case of providing data from third parties, have the
express consent of the latter, through the following text: "Also, at the
press the "PARTICIPATE" button, or equivalent, included in the registration form
registration, you declare that the information and data that you have provided in them are
exact and truthful.

So that the information provided is always updated and does not contain
errors, you must communicate, as soon as possible, the modifications
of
your personal data that is produced, as well as the
rectifications of erroneous data in case you detect any. In it
context of the treatments that, described in this Privacy Policy, is
You may provide personal data relating to third parties. In this
sense, it is your responsibility to inform third parties of such circumstance whose
data will be transferred to us, as well as, if necessary, obtain your
express consent to provide us with such information”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/24

Since the claimant has stated to AD735 that he has not provided
their
data, AD735, in its capacity as file manager, proceeded to the
deletion of these, thus guaranteeing the full exercise of rights
fundamentals of the claimant in the digital reality.

This is not an exceptional measure, but AD735, adopting in all
moment a proactive attitude, before any evidence or suspicion about
the veracity and/or ownership of the data received, in guarantee of the rights
recognized in articles 15 to 22 of the General Regulations for the Protection of
Data, proceeds to the limitation and/or deletion of all the data that
configure the registry on which there is doubt, as well as the exclusion of the
sweepstakes or promotion to which the record is associated.

We understand that AD735 has not breached the existing regulations regarding
data protection, not only because it has made available to the user the
consent received, but because it has adopted the necessary measures and
his
scope to satisfy the claimant's request.

Establishes article 65.3 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights:
Likewise, the AEPD may reject the claim when the person in charge or
person in charge of the treatment, prior warning formulated by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, would have adopted corrective measures
aimed at putting an end to possible non-compliance with the legislation of
data protection and any of the following circumstances occur: a) That
no harm has been caused to the affected party in the case of infringements
provided for in article 74 of this organic law. b) That the right of the affected party
is fully guaranteed through the application of the measures”.

We believe that it has been demonstrated that AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING, S.L. has taken corrective measures aimed at
put an end to the possible and alleged breach of the protection legislation
of data, and, in addition, we understand that no damage has been caused to the
affected. Thus, we are interested in issuing a resolution agreeing on the
dismissal and filing of this proceeding, without imposition of
any sanction.

AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. has been working with the maximum
diligence to comply with current regulations on
protection of personal data, and respecting the principles of good
faith and proactive responsibility.

Proof of this is that, in addition to the organizational and technical measures
suggested by that Agency, and adopted by AD735 for the treatment of
personal data in marketing activities, and which is later
indicate, AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. has gone progressively
adopted the following measures: 1.- On October 31, 2018, AD735
DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. creates the figure of the Protection Delegate

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/24

of Data within the company, and proceeds to the communication of the
appointment to the AEPD. 2.- Frequently review and adapt all the
communication protocols of users with AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING, S.L. to facilitate and optimize the exercise of rights
recognized in the GDPR, making mechanisms available to them for this
simple, free, effective and fast to obtain satisfaction to your
demands. 3.- The text of the mailbox has been configured
bajas@ad735.es. Mailbox text has been configured
dpo@ad735.es in this way all users are provided with the possibility of
exercise your rights in a simple, fast, free and effective way. These
texts are reviewed periodically, and modified when necessary,
always seeking to improve customer service, and keep up-to-date
the legal regulations indicated.

4.- The link www.ad735.es/derechosRGPDAD735.pdf has been enabled, and
facilitates the same in all the communications that it maintains with those affected,
whether automatic or personalized, to inform them clearly and
comprehensible description of the procedures and channels for the exercise of their
rights.

5.- The email box has been made available to those affected
dpo@ad735.es, for, and following the established legal procedures,
provide users with answers to their doubts, and ensure the exercise of their
GDPR rights.

6.- Periodic reviews have been established between the person in charge and those in charge
of the treatment, in order to attend to all the rights exercised by the
users and avoid that there are users who do not see their requests satisfied.

7.- The website www.ad735.es/bajas has been enabled so that users who use it
wish they can, in an effective and automatic way, exercise their rights of
suppression/opposition. Once a user has exercised his right to
deletion, he immediately receives the confirmation in his email
electronic.

8.- AD735, in his daily work, continues to make a serious effort to
update personal data management and processing systems
included in their files so that, respecting security measures
established, users can exercise the rest of the rights
recognized in the RGPD of an effective and immediate.

AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. has implemented the following
organizational and technical measures, which are known and applied by all your
staff: 1.- Organizational Measures. 2. Paper documents and supports
electronics will be stored in a safe place (cabinets or access rooms
restricted) 24 hours a day. 3. Documents or
electronic supports (cd, pen drives, hard drives, etc.) with personal data
without guaranteeing its destruction. 4. No personal data will be communicated or
any personal information to third parties, special attention will be paid not to
disclose protected personal data during telephone inquiries, emails

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/24

electronics etc 5. The duty of secrecy and confidentiality persists even
when the employee's employment relationship with the company ends.

B.- Rights of the owners of the data. AD735 MEDIUM DATA
ADVERTISING, S.L. you have informed all your staff about the procedure
to attend to the rights of the interested parties, clearly defining the
mechanisms by which rights can be exercised (electronic means,
reference to the Data Protection Officer, if any, postal address,
etc.)

AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. has informed everyone
with access to personal data about compliance terms
to attend to the rights of the interested parties, the form and procedure in
That
will address those rights.

C.- Personal data security violations. When
produce security violations OF PERSONAL DATA,
such as theft or improper access to personal data AD735
DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. will notify the Spanish Agency of
Protection of Data in term of 72 hours about said violations of
security, including all the information necessary for the clarification of
the facts that would have given rise to improper access to personal data.
The notification will be made by electronic means through the headquarters
email address of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at the address:
https://sedeagpd.gob.es

Technical Measures: 1. When the same computer or device is used to
the processing of personal data and purposes of personal use will be available
several different profiles or users for each of the purposes.
keep professional and personal use of the computer separate. 2. It
You will have profiles with administration rights for installation and
system configuration and users without privileges or access rights
administration for access to personal data. This measure aims
ensure that in the event of a cybersecurity attack, information can be obtained
access privileges or modify the operating system. 3. The
existence of passwords for access to stored personal data
in electronic systems. The password will have at least 8 characters, mix
of numbers and letters. 4. When personal data is accessed by different
people, for each person with access to personal data, there will be
of a specific username and password that allow identification
unequivocal. 5. The confidentiality of passwords will be guaranteed, avoiding
that are exposed to third parties. In no case the staff of AD735 DATA
MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L. will not share passwords or leave notes
same in a common place and with access by people other than the user. Duty
of safeguard: updating of computers. malware. Firewall. encryption
of data. Backup.

FOURTH: On 10/25/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data, an agreement is issued to admit the processing of the claim

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/24

presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD, when assessing possible
rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of competences
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: On 02/02/22, this Agency issued a request
information to the claimed party, under the investigative powers granted
to the control authorities in article 58.1 of the GDPR.

SIXTH: On 02/17/22, a response letter was received from the entity
claimed to the information request made by this Agency, in which, among
others, indicates:

"Proof of the origin of the claimant's telephone number collected from
through the website https://www.premium-sales.es:

That, in response to the requirement made by that Agency, we come to
contribute to this procedure accreditation of the origin of the data of the
affected, consisting of the following documents: 1. DOC 1.- Log file
justifying the personal data received from the affected party, through the
form enabled on the website https://www.premium-sales.es. 2. DOC 2.-
Screenshot of the form from which the data was received
personal of the affected”.

SEVENTH: On 03/11/22, this Agency has been able to verify the
following characteristics in the existing forms on the website
https://www.premium-sales.es:

Before you can submit any existing forms on the web page
http://prb.premium-sales.es/sorteos/.../ must necessarily accept the privacy policy
website privacy:

About Screenshot of registration form:

Checked the operation of this form on the website
https://www.premium-sales.es it is verified that it is necessary to select the following
conditions:

-

_ I have read and accept the privacy policy AD735 Data Media Advertising SL.

There is also the possibility of offering consent to receive communications
commercial and/or transfer personal data to related third-party companies:

-

-

_ I agree to receive commercial communications from AD735 about
services and products related to the sectors of activity reflected in
AD735's privacy policy

_ I accept that AD735 transfers the processing of my data to third-party companies
related to the sectors of activity that are detailed in the policy of
privacy of AD735

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/24

-

_ MARK ALL THE ABOVE OPTIONS

Following each of the first three conditions is an icon with a
“i”, which, when clicked on, opens a pop-up information window. In it
In the first case, a summarized version of the privacy policy is shown, in both
subsequent cases, inform of the sectors to which the data of the
user.

Regarding the documentation presented by the claimed party on 02/17/22, the log file
justifying the personal data received from the affected party, through the form
enabled on the website https://www.premium-sales.es, it is observed that it is a
extract from the registry file in which the following data of the claimant is recorded:
name, surname, telephone number, full address, session IP address, date and time of
high. It is verified that the name, surname, and telephone number coincide with the
of the claimant.

The data registration date is July 23, 2019. Given the age of the
use of the IP address for this registration procedure in the draw, it is not
can carry out investigation actions on this data since it exceeds the
mandatory conservation of this as established in article 5.1 of the
Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks.

EIGHTH: On 06/10/22, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, a sanctioning procedure is initiated against the claimed entity, at
appreciate reasonable indications of violation of the provisions of article 7.1 GDPR,
not being able to corroborate that the claimant's data was lawfully obtained from the
form included in the website https://www.premium-sales.es, with a penalty
initial amount of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

NINTH: Notified the initiation agreement to the claimed party, the latter in writing
dated 06/29/22 formulated, in summary, the following allegations:

FIRST. - In this procedure it is agreed "PROCEDURE
SANCTIONER to the entity, AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING S.L. with
CIF.: B87781795, for the infringement of article 7.1 GDPR, by not being able to
corroborate that the claimant's data was lawfully obtained from the
form included in the website https://www.premium-sales.es ”.

Thus, it is considered that, from the simple declaration of the affected party alleging that
has completed the form and participated in the contest indicated by the
responsible for the file, "there is not enough evidence to be able to
determine with certainty whether or not it was the claimant who provided their data in the
mentioned sweepstakes website.”

We consider that the opening of this disciplinary procedure,
based solely on a statement by the affected party in which he affirms that he does not
completed a form or participated in a contest, without providing evidence
any rationale for the existence of an infringement, supposes a clear violation of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/24

principle of presumption of innocence recognized in our text
constitutional.

The right to the presumption of innocence, in the administrative sphere, entails:
Start Sanctioning Procedure PS/00136/2022; - that the sanction is
based on acts or evidence of charge or incriminating of the
reproached conduct; - that the burden of proof (onus probandi) corresponds
whom he accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove his own innocence; and -
that any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out,
freely assessed by the sanctioning body, must be translated into a
acquittal pronouncement.

Thus, Section 1 of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Hearing
Nacional has indicated in its most recent Judgment dated February 22,
2022, (rec. 26/2020) that "Lack of provision of rational evidence of the
existence of an infraction, which is what happened in this case, according to
derives from the considerations of the contested resolutions, which reason
that the plaintiff substantiates the alleged violation of the protection regulations
of data in mere manifestations, without providing evidence that proves that
has committed an offence. Adding the AEPD that, being applicable, to the
sanctioning administrative law, with some qualification, the principles
inspirers of the penal order, the full potentiality of the principle of
presumption of innocence, in accordance with the provisions of article 53.2.b)
of the LPACAP”.

On the other hand, in article 65 of LO 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, which has
adapted the Spanish legal system to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and the Council, of April 27, establishes that "The Agency
Spanish Data Protection will not admit the claims presented
when they do not deal with issues of data protection of a
personal, manifestly unfounded, abusive or not
provide rational evidence of the existence of an infringement”.

In relation to this article, Section 1 of the Contentious Chamber
Court of the National Court, in the same judgment reviewed,
indicates that this precept "contemplates an inadmissibility a limine, that is, of
oficio, without analyzing the merits of the possible controversy raised and without the need
of any other action, in the cases, among others, in which the matter
raised does not provide rational evidence of the existence of an infringement”,
as we understand what has happened in this case, in which the affected party
limited to denying their participation in a raffle without providing rational evidence of the
existence of an infringement by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING,
even when it provided you with a certificate of obtaining your personal data.

The same Section 1, in its judgment of January 31, 2022 (rec.
2058/2019), indicates that when there is no proof of any violation
of the LOPD, the principle of presumption of innocence must prevail.

Regarding the Principle of Presumption of Innocence, it is included as

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/24

fundamental right in article 24.2 of our Constitutional Text.
Configured as a right of the penal system, the
jurisprudence, by affinity, has made it extensible to the procedure
sanctioning administrative

The Principle of Presumption of Innocence guarantees not to suffer sanction in the order
sanctioning administrative, without prior probative activity. It also guarantees
a probationary period resulting in proof of charge, which in the
this procedure does not exist. By virtue of this principle, it corresponds to the
claimant, prove the certainty of the alleged facts, and in no case is
forced the filer to prove his innocence, by coming protected by the
constitutional presumption of innocence.

Without it being enough a complaint that initiates a disciplinary file, but
that does not constitute proof of infringement.

On the principle of presumption of innocence, our Constitutional Court,
has had the opportunity to pronounce itself and establish doctrine regarding the period
evidence, considering that [Judgment 76/90 of April 25 (FJ.8º)]
“any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out, freely
valued by the sanctioning body, must be translated into a pronouncement
acquittal”.

SECOND.- On behalf of AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, the
user's request and a certificate of access to their personal data and
the requirement made by that Spanish Data Protection Agency.
 
In addition to providing the data collection certificate
personal information and response to the request made, attached to this
document the following documentation is provided, accrediting the obtaining
of the consent of the affected party as a basis of legitimacy for the treatment
of your personal data for direct marketing purposes:

Documents One, Register Table Certificate issued by the person in charge of the
processing of personal data, with the description of the activity record
collected in the log of the web page and actions carried out by the IP associated with the
Claimant's telephone record.

We understand that with the contribution of the new documentary the
existence of any reasonable doubt about obtaining consent
of the claimant or a third party for the treatment, despite the
repeated manifestations of the former in the sense of not having lent his
consent to the processing of data that gave rise to this
sanctioning procedure, and, consequently, the judgment of
subjective reproach as a subjective element for the imposition of
administrative sanctions.

As this Agency has already had the opportunity to pronounce, the foregoing must
connect with the validity of our sanctioning Administrative Law of the
principle of innocence recognized in article 24.2 of the Constitution

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/24

Spanish, so that the exercise of the sanctioning power of the State, in
its various manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
adversarial procedure in which they can defend their own
positions. The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing a
administrative infraction when proof has not been obtained and verified
of charge that proves the facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention
in the same of the alleged offender.

The Constitutional Court (SSTC 131/2003 and 242/2005, for all) has
pronounced in this sense when indicating that one of the inherent requirements of the
right of presumption of innocence is that the sanction is based on acts or
means proving the charge or incriminating the imputed conduct and that
rests on the acting public administration the burden of proof of the
commission of the administrative crime and the participation in it of the defendant.

For its part, article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
of the Public Sector establishes as one of the principles of legal authority
sanctioning that of "Responsibility" and determines in this regard that:

"They may only be penalized for acts constituting an infringement
administrative authority for natural and legal persons, as well as when a Law
recognize the capacity to act, the affected groups, the unions and
entities without legal personality and independent estates or
self-employed, who are responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence”.

Likewise, what is established in article 53.2 of the Law must be taken into account.
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, which establishes that:

"In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the presumed
responsible, they will have the following rights: (...) b) to the presumption of not
liability exists until proven otherwise.

All of this, we understand, must have as a consequence that the
allegations made by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, and, in
Consequently, a resolution is issued agreeing to the filing of this
procedure against the entity for the infringement of article 7.1 GDPR.

THIRD.- For all the above, we understand that, with the documentation
provided by the data controller, it is sufficiently
demonstrated that AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING has made a
correct treatment of the personal data of the affected person under the protection of the
legitimizing cause contained in article 6.1.a) of the GDPR, and has carried out
it in a respectful way with the regulations on data protection
of a personal nature in force at all times.

Otherwise, nothing is alleged by the claimant, beyond the non-
completion of the form indicated by the defendant, nor of its
participation in the contest, a circumstance that is not enough to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/24

undermine the principle of presumption of innocence that protects the person responsible
of the treatment. At no time is any rational indication of the
existence of an infringement by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING.

FOURTH.- AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING works to guarantee the
exercise of the rights of its users, and the legal and ethical use of their data
personal nature and implement the necessary measures for it”

Together with the pleadings, the "Registration Board Certificate" issued by
the person responsible for the processing of personal data of the entity, with the
description of the activity record collected in the web page log,
https://www.premium-sales.es and certificate of the actions carried out through the IP
associated with the phone ***PHONE.1:

“REGISTRATION TABLE CERTIFICATE

D. B.B.B., of legal age, with D.N.I. (...), address at ***ADDRESS.1,
authorized as legal representative of the company AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING, S.L., Madrid and C.I.F. B8871795

CERTIFIES

This document presents the data recorded when accessing the page
website of the Draw for a Football Subscription belonging to AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING, S.L. of the phone on which access to the data is requested
of your record.

This document presents the activity record collected in the log of
the web page and actions carried out by the IP associated with the registration of this
phone.

Phone for which access is requested: ***PHONE.1
Registration URL: http://www.prb.premium-sales.es
Registration Draw: http://prb.premium-sales.es/sorteos/futbol/

The registration data and the activity carried out by the user are shown below.
user with their times and the details of the actions carried out:

» Server: preiumsppnw1.mysql.db > Database: premiumsppnew1 >
Table: raffles 3. SELECT * FROM raffles _3 WHERE phone =
***TELEPHONE 1

id
name
surnames
gender
e-mail
phone
fechnac
dateinsertion

(…)
A.A.A.

(…)

***TELEPHONE 1

2019-07-23

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/24

communication
envlerceros
IP
address
location
province
codepost
reference

S
S
(…)
***ADDRESS.2
(…)
(…)
(…)
NULL

TENTH: On 11/14/22, the instructor of the file issued a proposal for
resolution where it was proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection proceed to ARCHIVE this procedure
disciplinary action against the entity claimed in accordance with the provisions of articles 63.3 of
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (LPACAP), for the alleged violation of article 7.1 of the
GDPR, considering that there was no violation of said precept in this case, since
presented as evidence the "log of the form of the website www.premium-
sales.es”, obtained on 07/23/19 at 4:44 p.m., where the name, surname and
telephone number, coincided with the data of the claimant provided in his letter of
claim.

ELEVENTH: On 01/24/23, by the Director of the Agency for the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection notifies the party claimed the granting
sion of a period of fifteen days, in accordance with article 90.2 of the LPACAP, to
that he could allege whatever he considered in his defense for the alleged infraction of the
Article 7.1 of the GDPR, considering, in this case, that the person in charge only certifies that
someone registered and entered the data of the claimant, but does not prove that it was the
the claimant himself who registered or carried out with his permission, therefore, it is
considers that there is a violation of article 7.1 GDPR, by not being able to corroborate that the data
Claimant's coughs were provided by himself.

TWELFTH: On 02/21/23, the respondent entity submits a written
allegations in which it indicates the following:

“FIRST.- It is indicated in the resolution that is now being answered that “In
In this case, the person in charge only certifies that someone registered and entered the
data of the claimant, but it does not prove that it was the claimant who gave up
high". However, in this disciplinary proceeding, it has been proven
the traceability of the consent of the affected party, the absence of any proof of
charge that justifies the proposed sanction and therefore the violation of the principle
of presumption of innocence that should govern the sanctioning power of the Ad-
administration, the violation of the principle of interdiction of the arbitrariness of the
Administration and, we understand, that an erroneous assessment of the practical test
each, as we have come to detail in the following ordinals.

SECOND.- In this case, it is agreed to impose a sanction on
AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING separating from the proposed resolution
tion issued by the instructor of the file, as well as the criteria followed in
previous matters, eg File No.: EXP202101XXX, in which in its reso-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/24

resolution dated August 29, 2022, it is agreed to file the procedure
since, as indicated in its legal foundations:

In relation to the above, it is considered that although initially there was evidence
indications that the data processing of the person who supposedly Pro-
Sanctioning procedure PS/00136/2022 (EXP202100XXX) filled out the form
of the raffle and its transfer to third parties, object of this claim, would have been made
without a legitimizing cause of those included in article 6 of the GDPR, the
contribution of new documentation by the defendant makes such evidence
if they are not completely refuted if they are at least questioned, which
makes it impossible to reach certainty about the commission of the infringement The GDPR
applies to personal data, which is defined as “personal data”:
any information about an identified or identifiable natural person ("the subject")
resado»); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the
physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social identity of
said person. BICLAMEDIA contributes as accreditation of obtaining the con-
feeling for the performance of treatment activities, to which
refers to the claim, new documents (log files and certificate of the table
registration) which could imply the verification of activities of obtaining
of the consent of the people who access the web page object of the
claim.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Direc-
tora of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES FIRST:
ARCHIVE procedure PS/00578/2021, initiated at the entity BICLAME-
DIA, S.L., with NIF B87022117”.

This party is surprised that in the present case a doctrine of the
National Court of the year 2006 and a different criterion to the one applied in the previous
resolution, when the proven facts and the evidentiary activity developed
da in both procedures keep an unquestionable similarity. Understand-
We believe that this difference in criteria when resolving two similar issues
entails a clear violation of the constitutional principle included in the article
9.3 that guarantees the prohibition of arbitrariness.

THIRD.- It is indicated in the resolution of January 23, 2023 that "In these
cases, the defendant can establish procedures to verify that the
registration is made by the owner of the data, such as sending an SMS or
make a commit call, especially when the main object of
The activity of the controller is to obtain data for advertising purposes”. One of
these means used by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING to verify
test the validity of registrations is the traceability of the data with the tools of
management of data used and that have allowed to demonstrate the origin and legality of the
data, keep proof of it and that, in addition, makes it possible to detect leads
incorrect (repeated, identical IPs, consecutive registration date and time,
etc.).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/24

On the other hand, the solutions proposed by that Agency, sending SMS or calling
confirmation call, do not guarantee with absolute certainty the fact that
who registers on a website, in a promotion, in a commercial action,
etc., be its owner. Thus, if several data are required, eg. email and
telephone number or postal address, one of them, by mistake and/or voluntarily, may be
entered incorrectly and miss that test. A clear example of
this is the lower than to participate in any promotion in which it is required
reflect a contact telephone number, enter the data of one of the parents,
but your own email for the purpose of confirming participation. In
In this case, the owner of the data is the parent, however, who has manifested
given the consent by filling in the form, but without knowledge of the
third party holder, is the minor who, a posteriori, confirms the participation through
a check included in the email you received, hoping to
that if he is awarded in the promotion he can convince his father to
receive the prize.

Nor is it guaranteed with absolute certainty that whoever completes a formula-
rio is the owner of the personal data entered when this action is
done through a public computer or shared use by several people.
Even when we relate to the Administration, the consent of the
owner is also not guaranteed, for example, when a person accesses
a notification with a digital certificate from a third party that you have
ne, initially with consent, but at the time of access to the notification
cation, no.

It is therefore evident that there are numerous situations, even of the pro-
set by that Agency, in which it is impossible to ensure with absolute certainty
that a person, natural or legal, has obtained consent for the treatment
treatment of the personal data of its owner.

FOURTH.- We believe that this disciplinary proceeding, based
only in a statement by the affected party in which he states that he does not comply
submitted a form or participated in a contest, without providing reasonable evidence
of the existence of an infringement, supposes a clear violation of the principal
principle of presumption of innocence recognized in our constitutional text,
especially when AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, following the doctrine of
the National Court outlined in the resolution dated January 23, 2023,
has obtained the consent of the affected party, has kept proof of compliance
compliance with its obligation and has accredited it before that Agency through the
reliability of the data obtained.

The right to the presumption of innocence in the administrative sphere, which is understood
demos violated, entails: - That the sanction is based on acts or means
probative or incriminating charges of the reproached conduct; - that the car-
proof (onus probandi) corresponds to the accuser, without anyone being
forced to prove his own innocence; and - that any insufficiency in the re-
result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the sanctioning body
nador, must be translated into an acquittal.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/24

Thus, Section 1 of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Hearing
Nacional has indicated in its most recent Judgment dated February 22,
2022 (rec. 26/2020), therefore, much later than the doctrine that supports the resolution
solution that we come to answer, that "Lack of contribution of rational evidence
of the existence of an infraction, which is what happened in the present case,
derives from the considerations of the contested resolutions, which reason
nan that the actor bases the alleged violation of the protection regulations
tion of data in mere manifestations, without providing evidence that proves
that an offense has been committed. Adding the AEPD that when applicable
tion, to the sanctioning administrative law, with some qualifications, the main
pious inspiring of the penal order, it is clear the full virtuality of the principle
of presumption of innocence, in accordance with the provisions of article
53.2.b) of the LPACAP”.

On the other hand, in article 65 of LO 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, which has adapted
the Spanish legal system to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of Parliament
European Parliament and the Council, of April 27, establishes that "The Agency Es-
The Data Protection Department will not admit the claims presented when
do not deal with issues of protection of personal data,
are manifestly unfounded, abusive or do not provide evidence
reasons for the existence of an infringement”.

In relation to this article, Section 1 of the Administrative Litigation Chamber
court of the National Court, in the same sentence reviewed, indicates
that this precept "contemplates an inadmissibility a limine, that is, ex officio, without
analyze the merits of the possible dispute raised and without the need for any
any other action, in the cases, among others, in which the question raised
does not provide rational indications of the existence of an infringement", as understood-
Let us know what has happened in this case, in which the affected party merely denies his
participation in a raffle without providing rational evidence of the existence of
an infringement by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, even if
This provided you with a certificate of obtaining your personal data.

The same Section 1, in its judgment of January 31, 2022 (rec.
2058/2019), indicates that when there is no proof of any violation
of the LOPD, the principle of presumption of innocence must prevail.

Regarding the Principle of Presumption of Innocence, it is included as
fundamental right in article 24.2 of our Constitutional Text. Confi-
figured as a right of the penal system, jurisprudence, for
affinity, has made it extensible to the administrative procedure sanctioned
swimmer.

The Principle of Presumption of Innocence guarantees not to suffer sanction in the order
sanctioning administrative, without prior probative activity. It also guarantees
a probationary period resulting in proof of charge, which in the
this procedure does not exist. By virtue of this principle, it corresponds to the
claimant, prove the certainty of the alleged facts, and in no case is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/24

forced the filer to prove his innocence, by coming protected by the pre-
presumption of constitutional innocence.

Without it being enough a complaint that initiates a disciplinary file, but
that does not constitute proof of infringement.

On the principle of presumption of innocence, our Constitutional Court,
has had the opportunity to pronounce itself and establish doctrine regarding the pro-
batorio, considering it resolved that [Judgment 76/90 of April 25 (FJ.8º)]
“any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out, freely
valued by the sanctioning body, must be translated into a pronouncement
acquittal”.

FIFTH.- We understand that with the evidentiary activity incorporated in the present
disciplinary file eliminates the existence of any reasonable doubt
on obtaining the consent of the claimant for the treatment of
your personal data, despite the repeated statements of the one in which
sense of not having given their consent for the treatment of the data
events that gave rise to this disciplinary proceeding, and, consequently,
mind, the judgment of subjective reproach would decline as a subjective element
for the imposition of administrative sanctions.

We also understand that the evidentiary activity provided by the claim
called, as indicated by the Instructor of the procedure, and thus it has served in the past.
previous issues settled by that Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
is sufficient evidence to be able to determine that the data of the claimant
were included in the AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING web form to
through the claimant's mobile phone, or at least, that if there is any
Evidence that the processing of the data of the person supposedly re-
filled out the draw form, object of this claim, it would have been carried out
without legitimizing cause of those included in article 6 of the GDPR, these at least
are questioned, making it impossible to reach certainty about the
commission of a possible offence.

As this Agency has already stated repeatedly, the foregoing must be
be connected with the validity of our Administrative Law sanctioning the
principle of innocence recognized in article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution
so that the exercise of the sanctioning power of the State, in its different
various manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a process
contradictory mode in which one's positions can be defended. He
principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
goes when proof of charge has not been obtained and verified that accredits
the facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the pre-
suspected offender Proof of charges that does not exist in the present case, since
that the only evidence provided to the disciplinary procedure is Procedure
the one that has practiced the claimed proving the traceability of the obtaining
of consent.

As we have already had occasion to state, the Constitutional Court
(SSTC 131/2003 and 242/2005, for all) has ruled in this sense to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/24

indicate that one of the requirements inherent to the right of presumption of innocence
cence is that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge
or incriminators of the imputed conduct and that falls on the Administration
acting public the burden of proof of the commission of the illegal administrative and
of the defendant's participation in it.

For its part, article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
of the Public Sector establishes as one of the principles of legal authority
sanctioning that of "responsibility" and determines in this regard that: "Only possible
will be penalized for acts constituting an administrative infraction
physical and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes them as capable
to act, the groups affected, the unions and entities without personal
legal entity and independent or autonomous patrimonies, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence”.

Likewise, what is established in article 53.2 of the Law must be taken into account.
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Ad-
Public administrations, which establishes that: "In addition to the rights pre-
seen in the previous section, in the case of administrative procedures of
sanctioning nature, the alleged perpetrators will have the following
rights: (...) b) to the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility
treatment until proven otherwise.

For all of the above, in line with the foregoing, and since there is no
proof of charge, that the defendant has accredited obtaining the consent
consent of the affected party in this proceeding and that its action does not
cannot be classified as fraudulent or culpable since it has adopted the measures
necessary to guarantee compliance with the obligation established in the
Article 7.1 of the GDPR, we understand that the consequence can only be
that the allegations made by the AD735 DATA MEDIA AD-
VERTISING, and, by virtue, a resolution is issued agreeing to the file of the pre-
proceedings against the entity claimed for the infringement of article
7.1 of the GDPR.

By virtue of the foregoing, I REQUEST THE DIRECTOR OF THE SPECIAL AGENCY
PAÑOLA DE PROTECCIÓN DE DATA, which considers that this writing has been presented
and its attached documents, admits them, considers them evacuated, on time and for-
ma, the procedure conferred, and, by virtue of the allegations made in the body
of this document, serve to issue a resolution agreeing to the dismissal
and file of the Disciplinary Procedure PS/00136/2022, without imposition of
any sanction, also expressing the absence of any responsibility
by AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L., for having been its actu-
according to current regulations on the protection of personal data
and that the rights recognized in the Regulations have not been infringed.
(UE) 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 (GDPR) and other applicable regulations
tion, as well as everything else that is appropriate in Law.

PROVEN FACTS.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/24

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the information and
documentation presented, the following facts have been accredited:

First: As indicated by the claimant in his claim document dated 07/02/21,
he never participated in the raffle that was held through the website of the
claimed entity (www.premium-sales.es) because, according to him, he had never lent his
personal data to that entity for any purpose.

Second: In the document presented by the entity claimed in this Agency, the
10/03/21, acknowledges that it does not have the necessary technology to be able to certify the
identity of the people who send the data through the forms enabled
on their websites and confirms to the claimant himself that "(...) In cases like yours,
and before any evidence or suspicion about the veracity and/or ownership of the
data received through any of the enabled forms, AD735 DATA
MEDIA ADVERTISING, S.L., as a guarantee of the rights recognized in articles
15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 (GDPR), proceeds to the
limitation and/or deletion of all the data that make up the registry(…)”

Third: Once the disciplinary procedure has begun, the entity claimed, in the writ of
allegations to the initiation of the file presented, together with the brief of
allegations, a Record Table certificate issued by the data controller
of personal data, with the description of the activity record collected in the log
of the web page and actions carried out by the associated IP, as declared by the
claimed, to the claimant's telephone record.

The data presented in the DPD certificate of the claimed entity, obtained on
07/23/19 at 4:44 p.m., such as first name, last name and telephone number
coincide with the data of the claimant provided in his claim document.

Given the age of use of the IP address for this registration procedure
in the draw, it has not been possible to verify the information on this data since it exceeds
the obligatory nature of its conservation as established in article 5.1 of the
Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

YO-

Competence.

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure
of Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in the GDPR, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a subsidiary character, by
the general rules on administrative procedures."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/24

Summary of the events that occurred:

II-

According to the respondent entity, it had obtained the personal data of the claimant
through the participation form in the raffle for a trip for two people
published on the website www.premium-sales.es, which, according to the claimant, was not
true because he had never included his personal data on said page nor had he
lent your personal data to said entity.

Information requested by this Agency from the entity claimed on what
indicated in the complaint, it recognized that it could not guarantee with absolute
certainty that the data received in the form were really provided by
the claimant because, sometimes records are received indicating the names
false, aliases or some incorrectly entered data.

For this reason, proceedings are initiated for the alleged violation of article 7.1
GDPR, since the entity claimed cannot guarantee that the personal data of the
the claimant entered in the form on his website, carried out by him
himself or with his consent, and he acknowledges this in the email he sent to the
claimant himself, where he stated the lack of the necessary technology to be able to
certify the identity of the people who send the data through the forms
enabled on their websites, and therefore if they are introduced with the
consent of the affected.

Once the disciplinary procedure had begun, the defendant entity presented, together with the
brief of allegations to the initiation of the file, a "Registration Board Certificate",
with the activity record collected in the log of said web page and the actions
made through the IP, and that, according to the certificate presented by the entity,
was associated with the phone ***PHONE.1. Phone number that matches the
of the claimant.

III.

Response to the allegations

Throughout the entire procedure, the requested entity states that the "Certificate
Registration Table", issued by the person responsible for the processing of personal data of
the entity, where the activity record collected in the page log is described
website www.premium-sales.es where the personal data of the claimant appears (the
name, surname and telephone number), are sufficient proof to be able to determine
note that the claimant's data was included in the AD735 web form
DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING through the mobile phone of the claimant, or when me-
us, there is evidence that the processing of the claimant's personal data was
made with your consent, as has happened in other cases, such as
example the one followed in PS/00578/2021 in this Agency.

Well, to indicate that, in the disciplinary procedure referred to by the re-
called, PS/00578/2021, followed in this Agency against the entity BICLAMEDIA,
it was considered that this entity had processed the personal data of the claimant without
no legitimizing basis, subsequently assigning them to third parties and therefore opened

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/24

the file for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the GDPR, that is, for lack of
legitimacy in the processing of personal data.

During the process of said file, the claimed entity (BICLAME-
DIA) contributed new documents to the file, such as the log files with
registration data and activity at the time of browsing the web, as well as
a registration table certificate issued by the person responsible for the personal data file
sonales. These documents reflected that the claimant's IP was used to visit the
website of the claimed party, entering the personal data of the claimant and appearing in
conditions c1, c2, c3 and c4 the value "1" (which would mean acceptance of the conditions).
tions of data processing, according to explanatory note), in the "Registration Table of the
User and IP Activity Log.

Therefore, it was considered by this Agency that the contribution of this new dossier
documentation, in file PS/00578/2021: "(...) it introduced a reasonable doubt
on the existence of a valid obtaining of the consent of the claimant or of a
third party for treatment (…)”.

A different situation is followed in this proceeding (PS/136/2022), since in
this file, what is being clarified is whether the claimed entity, AD735 DATA
MEDIA ADVERTISING S.L., can confirm that the person who entered the data
information in the form on its website was precisely the claimant or was it
made with your consent. Situation that the claimant himself denies in his writing.
claim.

This is because the accreditation of the identity of the user who is entering
the data on the draw website https://www.premium-sales.es is not carried out with the
sufficient guarantees, so that any person who had knowledge of the name
name, surnames and telephone number of a citizen, or even using random data,
may introduce personal data of third parties on the website.

The claimed party, in its reply email to the claimant, which consists of
stated in the brief of allegations to the transfer of the claim, confirms the indisposition
of the technology necessary to be able to certify the identity of the people who send
have the data through the forms enabled on their websites or that such data
cough are obtained with the consent of the affected.

This argument, to which the defendant agrees, lacks foundation since
that there are well-known mechanisms that could be used, such as
example, sending a verification code by SMS, a confirmation call,
etc., which could corroborate that the data entered in the form were provided
by the interested party himself or with his consent.

In addition, the defendant entity states, in the response it made to the affected
that, like the rest of the companies in the digital marketing sector and other
sectors, cannot guarantee with absolute certainty that the data received is consistent with
correct because sometimes records are received indicating false names, aliases
or some incorrectly indicated data and sometimes, records of minors are received that include
indicate an erroneous date of birth to prove an age of majority that does not have
and thus be able to opt for the promoted prizes and that for this reason AD735 ad-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/24

conveys to users, in its privacy policy, the need to indicate exact data
honest and truthful, in addition to, in the case of providing data from third parties, with
have the express consent of the latter to be able to introduce them

Well, in this sense, recital (42) of the GDPR indicates that:

When the treatment is carried out with the consent of the interested party, the
controller must be able to demonstrate that the controller has given
your consent to the processing operation (…)

And in application of this, article 7.1 of the RGPD, on the "conditions for the con-
feeling”, states the following:

"When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person responsible
sable must be able to demonstrate that he consented to the treatment of his
personal information".

In this sense, the Judgment of May 5, 2021, of the Contentious Chamber-ad-
Ministry, Section 1, Rec.1434/2020), in its F.D. 6º affects the obligation of the
responsible for the treatment of being able to prove how the consent has been obtained
I lie:

"This Chamber has repeatedly indicated (SAN of April 23, 2015, Rec.
97/2014, for all) that corresponds to the person who performs the treatment to prove
who has obtained the consent of the data subject when – as happens here –
denies having granted it, and to this end it must arbitrate the necessary means to
it…

Therefore, in these cases, to demonstrate that the interested party provided their personal data,
or consented to their treatment, the person in charge can establish procedures to
verify it and demonstrate it where they can be cited, as simple examples, send a
SMS or make a call to confirm the operation and that, according to the
proactive responsibility of the entity, it must determine which is the best system
ma to comply with its obligations and be able to demonstrate that the interested parties
consented to the processing of their personal data, and this was included in the agreement of
start of this procedure:

" (...) This is because the accreditation of the identity of the user who is
entering the data on the raffle website https://www.premium-sale-
s.es is not carried out with sufficient guarantees, so any person
with knowledge of the name, surname and telephone number of a citizen, or even
using random data, you could enter this personal data on the site
web and these be assigned by the claimed party to other entities for the purpose of
marketing. The claimed party, in his reply email to the
claimant, which is recorded in the brief of allegations to the transfer of the claim-
tion, manifests the indisposition of the necessary technology to be able to certify
the identity of the people who send the data through the forms
enabled on their websites. This argument, to which the part
claimed, lacks foundation since there are mechanisms
known, such as sending a verification code by SMS, or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/24

a confirmation call, etc., which could minimize possible treatment
unlawful use of the personal data provided through the form (…) ”.

Regarding the principle of presumption of innocence alluded to by the defendant, it should be indicated
note that, in the field of data protection, it is qualified by the concurrence of the
of proactive responsibility that, in the supposed object of this file, implies
necessarily the diligent action of the data controller who has not only
to obtain prior consent for the processing of the data, but also
must have the essential means to be able to verify and prove that said
consent was duly given.

Therefore, the principle of proactive responsibility assumes that the person responsible for the
Data processing must be able to prove the correctness of the treatment and, in
In this case, the documentation provided ceases to be a unilateral declaration of
part that is not accompanied by any verification measure that corroborates
that the one who provided the data is really who he claims to be.

III.

administrative infraction

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the
facts exposed suppose the violation of article 7.1 RGPD, since it is not possible to
corroborate that the claimant's data was obtained directly from him or with his
consent.

In accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, this infringement may be
sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

Article 72.1.c) of the LOPDGDD, considers very serious, for prescription purposes,
"Breach of the requirements demanded by article 7 of the GDPR".

In accordance with the precepts indicated, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction to
imposed in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction according to
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:



The duration of the infringement, taking into account that in PS/0161/2021, of the
which part of this claim reported that the claimant had requested the
access to personal data that was in the possession of the claimant entity
given on 10/15/20, (section a).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed, by violating the provisions of the article
Article 7.1 of the GDPR, makes it possible to set the amount of the sanction at 5,000 euros (five thousand
euro).

RESOLVES:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/24

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity AD735 DATA MEDIA ADVERTISING S.L. with CIF.:
B87781795, for the violation of article 7.1 GDPR, with a penalty of 5,000 euros
(five thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity AD735 DATA MEDIA
ADVERTISING S.L.

Warn the penalized party that the sanction imposed must make it effective once it is
enforce this resolution, in accordance with the provisions of article 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account No. ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the
Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in
executive period.
 
Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of 30
December, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, the present
Resolution will be made public, once the interested parties have been notified. The
publication will be made in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of 22
December, from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection on the publication of their
Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reinstatement before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution, or, directly, a contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative, within a period of two months from the day following
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned text
legal.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/],
or through any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/24

39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer the documentation to the Agency
proving the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. if the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
administration within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
present resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

