EDPB Work Program 2019/2020

The European Data Protection Board

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent European body, which contributes to
the consistent application of data protection rules throughout the European Union, and promotes
cooperation  between  the  EU and  EEA  EFTA data  protection supervisory authorities. The  EDPB  is
established by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

The EDPB is composed of representatives of the national EU and EEA EFTA data protection supervisory
authorities, and the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS).
The EDPB has the following main tasks:

 To issue opinions, guidelines, recommendations and best practices to promote a common

understanding of the GDPR and the Law Enforcement Directive;

 To advise the European Commission on any issue related to the protection of personal data in

the Union;

 To contribute to the consistent application of the GDPR, in particular in cross-border data

protection cases

 To promote cooperation and the effective exchange of information and best practice between

national supervisory authorities

In line with the Article 29 of the EDPB Rules of procedure, the EDPB has developed its two-year work
program for 2019 and 2020. After having endorsed guidelines adopted by the WP29 and after having
issued guidelines on the interpretation of the new provisions introduced by the GDPR, the EDPB now
aims to focus more on specific items or technologies. The work program of the EDPB is based on the
needs identified by the members as priority for stakeholders as well as the EU legislator planned
activities.

The EDPB will regularly monitor the implementation of its work program which might be updated.

12.02.19

1

Activities for 2019-2020

I.

Guidelines

 Guidelines on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies
 Guidelines on delisting
 Guidelines on PSD2 and GDPR
 Guidelines on  international  transfers  between  public  bodies  for  administrative

cooperation purposes

 Guidelines Certification and Codes of Conduct as a tool for transfers
 Guidelines on Connected vehicles
 Guidelines on Certification (finalisation after the public consultation)
 Guidelines on video surveillance
 Guidelines on Data Protection by Design and by Default
 Guidelines on Targeting of social media users
 Guidelines on children’s data
 Guidelines on reliance on Art. 6(1) b in the context of online services
 Guidelines on concepts of controller and processor (Update of the WP29 Opinion)
 Guidelines on the notion of legitimate interest of the data controller (Update of the

WP29 Opinion)

consultation)

Directive

 Guidelines  on the  Territorial  Scope  of  the  GDPR (finalisation after the public

 Guidelines on the powers of DPAs in accordance with Art. 47 of the Law Enforcement

 Guidelines on data subjects rights with main focus at a first stage on the rights of

access, erasure, objection, restriction and limitations to these rights

II.

Consistency opinions

 Opinion on administrative arrangement between EEA and non EEA financial market

regulators

 Opinion on Interplay between GDPR and ePrivacy

III.

Other types of activities

 Privacy Shield - Follow-up of the Joint Review
 ePrivacy Regulation
 Procedural rules on the Supervision of EU large scale IT systems
 Consultation from the Commission on the Clinical Trials Regulation
 Reflection paper on international mutual assistance and other cooperation tools to

enforce the GDPR outside the EU (Art. 50)

 EDPB Enforcement Strategy
 FATCA - Statement in response to the European Parliament’s resolution
 Statement on the use of personal data in the context of elections
 Enhancement of existing IT solutions and development of new IT solutions
 Data breach notifications
 Consultation from the Commission on the report regarding the evaluation and review

of the GDPR according to Art. 97

12.02.19

2

IV.

Recurrent activities

a. Consistency opinions and decisions

 Opinions  regarding  relevant draft  decision  from  competent supervisory

authorities, such as decisions on
 DPIA lists (Art. 35(4)-(5))



Codes of conduct
Accreditation criteria for  code  monitoring  and  certification  bodies
and certification criteria under Art. 42(5) (European Data Protection
Seal)
Standard  contractual clauses  for  international  transfers  under  Art.
46(2)
Standard contractual clauses for processors under Art. 28(8)
Ad hoc contractual clauses for international transfers under Art. 46(3)
Binding Corporate Rules (Art. 47(1))







 Any opinion on matter of general application or producing effects in several
member States, on the basis of a request from any supervisory authority, the
Chair or the Commission under Art. 64(2)

 Any  binding  decision in  the  context  of  dispute  resolution  (Art.  65(1))  or

urgency procedure (Art. 66)

b. Legislative consultation

 Any opinion, statement, advice on the request of the Commission following
the adoption of proposals for a legislative act, international agreement or
when  preparing  delegated  acts  or  implementing  acts,  where  the  act  is of
particular importance for the protection of individuals’ rights and freedoms
with regard to the processing of personal data, such as opinions on future or
review of existing Adequacy decisions

V.

Possible topics

 Guidelines on the interpretation of Art. 48 GDPR
 Guidance on the interaction between the Regulation on the free flow of non-personal

data in the EU and the GDPR

 Opinion on cross-border requests for e-evidence
 Comments on updated PNR agreement with Canada
 Update of guidance on government access to data  both in Essential Guarantees paper

and Adequacy Referential

 Enforcement against controllers in 3rd countries
 e-Invoices and creation of centralized databases by Ministries of Finance
 Use  of  credit  cards  for  distant  payments  and  post-transaction  retention  of  card

numbers

 Good practices regarding research projects
 Approval procedure for ad hoc contractual clauses
 Blockchain
 Interoperability between BCRs
 Use of new technologies, such as AI, connected assistants

12.02.19

3

