

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the use of cookies for measuring website traffic (company TOPlist s.r.o.)



On the basis of the control plan for 2019, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data when using cookies to measure website traffic. The inspectors found that the service provided by the inspected person allows website operators to monitor their website traffic statistics and compare them with the traffic of other websites websites (monitored by a controlled person). The basic measured quantity within this service is the number of visits to the given website. Viewing a page in a browser (distinguished by IP address and cookie) is considered a visit. A repeated visit to the given website from the same device before the expiration of 30 minutes is then considered a mere view and not a new visit. To technically distinguish a visit from a view, the controlled person uses a cookie that is stored in the browser on the visitor side of the measured website for 30 days, and on the server side for 30 minutes from the last request. The inspectors came to the conclusion that the inspected person processes personal data within the meaning of Article 4 points 1) and 2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. With regard to the fact that the traffic measurement service (of which the processing of personal data of website visitors is an integral part) is provided to website operators only after their registration, it was stated that these operators are in the position of personal data administrator, while the controlled person is in the position processors. As part of the inspection, the measures taken by the inspected person to ensure the security of processed personal data were further assessed, with the conclusion that the requirements of Article 32 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 were complied with. Also, the records of processing activities meet, according to the inspectors' assessment, the requirements according to Article 30 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The Office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in connection with the processing of personal data in question. The inspection was conducted by inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Božena Čajková. Recommendation: Also the use of cookies, which is mainly regulated by Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications and on the amendment of some related laws (Electronic Communications Act), may constitute processing of personal data. In such a case, the obligations arising from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 must also be complied with at the same time.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > IT technology > Inspection of the use of cookies to measure website traffic (company TOPlist s.r.o.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



