1/16

 File No.: PS/00418/2021

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated 04/23/2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the Municipal Group of VOX in the Madrid City Council
with NIF G86867108 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows: the municipal group made a visit to the facilities
of IES Ramiro de Maeztu supporting the grassroots sport together with the Board of Directors of the Club of
Student Basketball; During said visit, a one-minute video was made that was
spread on social networks, twitter and instagram, in the aforementioned video minors appear without
that you have consented to the processing of your data.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), within the scope of file E/06285/2021, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party, to proceed to its analysis and report
to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt
to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

On 06/21/2021, this Agency received a written response from the claimant
indicating that the Municipal Group of the Madrid City Council of VOX made a
visit to the facilities of IES Ramiro de Maeztu, supporting grassroots and
That visit was carried out in a one-minute video that was published on social networks; that
the graphic information is about a public event or event and the image of the
minors appear as merely accessory and proportionally, without
In no case is there damage to the honor or reputation of minors, nor the
publication is contrary to their interests.

THIRD: On 08/04/2021 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
de Datos agreed to admit the claim presented by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 02/03/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to start a sanctioning procedure for the person claimed by the alleged
violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR,
considering that the sanction that could correspond to him would be a warning.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the defendant submitted a written statement of allegations
on 02/09/2022 in which he states, in summary, the following: that the defendant made
an institutional visit to the facilities of the basketball club at the invitation of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

same; that a one-minute video of that visit was made and published on
social networks;
that the graphic information is about a public event, caused by the club itself
with their invitation to the municipal group, and the image of the minors that appears is
merely accessory, players are not distinguished that are recorded at a high
distance and that they are wearing the mask, being proportional and accessory recording;
In this case, a municipal group attends a meeting to promote the
sport, and that publicizes the meeting itself, is part of its powers and of the
In the same way, it is a place open to the public, it has a political, cultural interest
and relevant sports without in any case there is impairment of the honor or
reputation of minors; that the consent of minors is not required in
cases in which your image is captured in relation to an event or event
public and its image appears as merely accessory; remember the file
of the
procedure.
 
SIXTH: On 10/13/2021 the test practice period began,
remembering the following:

 

Deem reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
They are part of procedure E/06285/2021.
Deem reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initiation agreement
of the referenced disciplinary procedure, presented by the defendant.

SEVENTH: On 08/01/2022, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that
by the Director of the AEPD, the defendant will be penalized for a violation of article
6.1.a) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a penalty of
warning.

In a letter dated 08/08/2022, the defendant responded by reiterating the allegations
presented in previous writings, emphasizing that article 25 of Law 7/1985,
of April 2, Regulating the Bases of the Local Regime, establishes as
competence of the municipalities, the promotion of sport and that Law 7/1985, of
April 2, Regulating the Bases of Local Regime, in its wording given by the
Law 27/2013, of December 27, on the rationalization and sustainability of the
Local Administration (LRSAL), in relation to municipal sports, establishes as
competence of the municipality, in its article 25, section l) "Promotion of the
sports and sports facilities and occupation of free time" and that article 6
of the GDPR, expressly establishes that the treatment will be lawful, regardless of the
consent, when e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a
mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, there have been
accredited the following,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 04/23/2021 the claimant filed a claim with the AEPD
stating that the defendant made a visit to the facilities of the IES Ramiro de
Maeztu supporting grassroots sport together with the Board of the Basketball Club
Students; During said visit, a video was made that was disseminated on social networks,
twitter and instagram, in which minors appear without their consent in the
treatment of your data.

SECOND. It is recorded that on 03/04/2021 he appeared on the social networks Instagram and
Twitter video of 1:07 minutes in which images of minors appear
during your training.

THIRD. The claimant sent an e-mail dated 03/05/2021 to the Club
Students expressing their disagreement with the visit to the facilities of the
claimed and his surprise at the video of which he learned via Wasap in which
You see moments of the training of one of your children, not finding it tolerable
use of such images for political purposes.

FOURTH. On 03/05/2021, the Student Basketball Club responded by sending
writing in which it indicated the following: "...in its capacity as a training club of
reference has received in recent months several institutional visits from the
different municipal political groups of the Madrid City Council, with the aim of
discuss with the aforementioned political forces the sports projects that we are
currently implementing and that we want to develop in the future.
In this context, on March 3, 2021, we received at the Movistar
Academy
Magariños the visit of the components of the municipal group of VOX, taking media
and VOX communication managers, images of the meeting held and of the
sports facilities where we carry out our activities. When meeting in
the pavilion at that time various teams from our youth academy carrying out
training sessions, they took pictures, among other elements of the pavilion, of some of the
the players who were exercising at that time.
The Club is going to transfer the Department of Communication of the municipal group of VOX
in Madrid City Hall, the request to re-edit the video with the
so that images of the players who were filmed are not broadcast”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

FIFTH. In a letter dated 03/05/2021, the Student Club addressed the defendant
noting the following:

"Dear …,
From the Student Basketball Club we are receiving some complaints from parents
of underage players for having been recorded while training during
the visit made by the municipal group of VOX in the Ayto de Madrid last day 3
March, as the parents did not authorize the use and reproduction of those images.
For this reason and since the parents did not authorize the aforementioned recording, we
We request that you edit the video of the visit, eliminating the images of minors
of age that appear”.

In this same line, it was sent in writing on 03/11/2021, again requesting the
withdrawal of images of minors in the face of complaints from guardians and parents and, that
in the case of not responding to the repeated requests, they would be forced to act
together in appropriate actions.

SIXTH. In a letter of 06/21/2021, Vox has indicated in relation to the video that: “The
graphic information is about a public event or event and the image of the
minors appear as merely accessory and proportionally, in the same way
way it is a place open to the public, and has a political, cultural and
relevant sports.
In no case is there damage to the honor or reputation of minors, nor the
publication contrary to their interests.
No one has addressed this party exercising any right"

SEVENTH. On 07/21/2021 the Student Club responded to the requirement of the AEPD
stating that:
 "(...)
Consequently, CLUB ESTUDIANTES has not intervened in the facts that are the object of the
claim, since at no time was the recording of images of the
students of the Club, but only the members of the group were allowed to enter
VOX parliamentarian as part of an institutional visit to a venue owned by the
City of Madrid. Therefore, the personal data of the claimant (his image)
have not been processed by CLUB ESTUDIANTES without their consent or
there has been a transfer of said personal data in favor of the aforementioned political party to
their own purposes.
(…)”.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that:

 "The
procedures processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, for the
regulatory provisions dictated in its development and, as soon as they are not
contradict, on a subsidiary basis, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures.”

II

The denounced facts materialize in the publication of a video
made in the facilities of the IES Ramiro de Maeztu containing images of
minors, which could imply the violation of the regulations regarding
Personal data protection.
 
It should be noted that the physical image of a person, according to article 4.1
of the GDPR, it is personal data and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said
Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of
personal information.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image
of natural persons) carried out through the filming of a video and its
Downloading on social networks is in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

Article 6, Legality of the treatment, of the GDPR in its section 1, establishes that:

1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled

conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the
interested party or for the application at the request of this of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
applicable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or
of another physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible
of the treatment;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

f) the processing is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that
such interests are not overridden by the interests or the rights and freedoms
of the interested party that require the protection of personal data,
in particular when the interested party is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the

treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions”.

On the other hand, article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in its sections 1, 2 and 11,

notes that:

“1) “personal data” means any information about an identified natural person
or identifiable ("the data subject"); Any identifiable natural person shall be considered
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular
by means of an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location data, an online identifier or one or more elements of the
physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social identity of said
person;

"2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
on personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of authorization of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction;

"11) "consent of the interested party": any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal for which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern him."

II

1. Data processing requires the existence of a legal basis that
legitimate, such as the consent of the interested party for the processing of the data
personal data for one or more specific purposes.
In accordance with article 6.1 of the GDPR, in addition to consent,
 
There are other possible bases that legitimize the processing of data without the need for
have the authorization of its owner. in particular, when necessary for the
execution of a contract in which the affected party is a party or for the application, upon request
of this, of pre-contractual measures, or when necessary for the satisfaction of
legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party,
provided that such interests do not prevail over the interests or rights and
fundamental freedoms of the data subject that require the protection of such data. He
treatment is also considered lawful when necessary for the fulfillment of
a legal obligation applicable to the data controller, to protect interests
of the data subject or of another natural person or for the fulfillment of a mission

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment.

In the present case, the defendant is charged with the violation of article 6.1.a)
of the GDPR when the illegality of the treatment carried out by the person claimed to the
include in the recording images of minors and broadcast on social networks Twitter and
Instagram the video made in the facilities of the IES Ramiro de Maeztu, without
for the record that their representatives have given their consent.

As the facts show, the claimant, father of one of the minors,
showed his surprise at the recorded video of which he learned via Wasap in the
that you see reproduce moments of the training of one of your children.

The very club in which the events took place addressed the
claimed, indicating that "For this reason and since the parents did not authorize the
aforementioned recording, we ask you to edit the video of the visit, eliminating the
images of the minors that appear" and that "at no time
allowed the recording of images of the students of the Club, but only
allowed entry to members of the VOX parliamentary group as part of a
Institutional visit to a venue owned by the Madrid City Council”.

Therefore, it is considered that the treatment carried out violates the principle of
legality enshrined in article 6, not being acceptable as indicated by the defendant that
“Graphic information is about a public event or occurrence and the image of
minors appear as merely accessory and proportionally”.

2. The defendant has alleged that the publication and dissemination on social networks of the
video has sufficient legitimacy in section e) of article 6.1 GDPR that
provides" e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out
in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment".

This section justifies and legitimizes the processing based on activities
carried out by public sector entities, among which are the
included in the Local Administration, when said entities exercise powers
public or a mission of public interest, which does not necessarily have to be
based on a specific legal obligation, but rather on the performance of one's own
purposes of public interest that are exercised, in this case, by the municipalities.

Regarding the processing of personal data carried out under the protection of the

letter e) of article 6.1 of the GDPR, the following clarifications must be made:

In the first place, that as provided in sections 2 and 3 of article 6 of the
GDPR, the legal regulations that enable such treatment may establish
specific provisions in relation to them:

"2. Member States may maintain or introduce more
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with
regarding the treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), establishing
more precisely specific treatment requirements and other measures that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

ensure lawful and equitable treatment, including in other situations
specific treatment according to chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be

established by:

a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the person responsible for the

treatment.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis
or, in relation to the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), it will be necessary
for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
Public powers conferred on the data controller. This legal basis may
contain specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the person in charge; the types of data subject to processing; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data may be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the storage periods of the
data, as well as the operations and processing procedures, including the
measures to ensure lawful and equitable treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill an objective of public interest and will be proportional
to the legitimate aim pursued”.

The defendant states that the promotion of sport by the groups
municipal councils of the Madrid City Council is a mission that is clearly in the public interest,
caused by the sports institution itself with its invitation and that article 25 of the
Law 7/1985, of April 2, regulating the Bases of the Local Regime (LRBRL),
expressly establishes, as a responsibility of the municipalities, the promotion
of sport.

However, such a manifestation cannot be shared; it is true that in the
LRBRL points out that one of the municipal powers is the promotion of sport
in section l) of article 25:

"l) Promotion of sports and sports facilities and occupation of time

free".

In the same way, Law 15/1994, of December 28, on Sport of the
Community of Madrid, in its Chapter II, which is titled local entities,
in article 23, Functions and powers, establishes that:

"1. In accordance with this Law and with what is established in the legislation
of the State on Local Regime, the Town Halls will exercise in their respective
terms the following powers and functions:

a) Generally promote physical activity and sport in their area
territory, promoting physical activities of a formative and recreational nature,
especially among schoolchildren.

(…)”
It should be noted that data processing will be covered by letter e) of the
Article 6.1 if the applicable law has attributed competence to the Administration

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

by a norm with the force of law, article 8.2 of the LOPDGDD, and it will not be in case
contrary.

Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR only considers data processing lawful
based on said precept if it is necessary for the
performance of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
public rights conferred on the data controller. Therefore, if a certain
treatment is not "necessary" for the fulfillment of the mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred by law, said
treatment would lack a sufficient legitimizing legal basis provided for in section
and).

In the present case, if we consider that the public interest invoked by the
claimed is determined by the generic mandate established in the previous
norms addressed to local entities for the physical and sports promotion, of the
sports facilities, as well as the occupation of free time, etc., the treatment
carried out by recording images of minors and disseminating them in the
social networks Twitter and Instagram through the video made in the facilities of the
IES Ramiro de Maeztu is not necessary for the fulfillment of this mission of interest
public, considering that it violates article 6.1 of the GDPR and, in addition, in the norm
invoked does not impose the obligation of said treatment, that mission is not determined
of public interest and no public power is conferred to carry out the treatment.

3. In relation to the consent of minors, establishes article 7,
the LOPDGDD that:

minors,

consent of

  of

"1. The processing of personal data of a minor only

may be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age.

The cases in which the law requires the attendance of the holders of
parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the legal act or business in which
context the consent for the treatment is obtained.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if that of the holder of parental authority or guardianship is recorded, with
the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship”.

And article 92, Protection of data of minors on the Internet, of the

LOPDGDD provides that:

"Educational centers and any physical or legal persons who
develop activities in which minors participate will guarantee the
protection of the best interests of the minor and their fundamental rights,
especially the right to the protection of personal data, in the publication or
dissemination of your personal data through services of the society of the
information.

When said publication or diffusion were to take place through services of
social networks or equivalent services must have the consent of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

minor or their legal representatives, in accordance with the provisions of article 7 of this
organic Law".

From the aforementioned regulations it can be deduced that in order to publish or disseminate the image of
minors, parental or guardian consent is required if you are under the age of
14 years and, in any case, if the consent of the minor is over 14.

The GDPR considers the image as personal and subject data, for
So much for protection. In order to process any personal data, a
express consent of the owner, therefore, to process (publish) the
recordings or videos that contain the image of a person, we need your
consent or that of their representative or guardian.

4. It should be noted that the image is considered personal data of
according to the definition of personal data provided by article 4 of the GDPR and,
as such, any treatment that is carried out on the images of people
identified or identifiable must comply with the requirements, obligations and principles
established in the regulations on protection of personal data, GDPR and
LOPDGDD.

Thus, in this specific case, the person who is recorded has the right
to consent to the collection and use of their image and, in addition, corresponds to the
responsible for the treatment to ensure that the person from whom the request is made
consent actually gives it.

In this sense, the image is personal data and the person responsible
that records said image, you need to obtain the consent of the person and must
comply with the personal data protection regulations.

For these purposes, the capture and recording of the image and/or voice on a support
physical data are considered personal data processing when
allow to determine, directly or indirectly, the identity of its owner, and in this case,
Said treatment will only be legitimate if it is based on any of the grounds
legal enumerated in art. 6.1 of the GDPR.

The Constitutional Court, in relation to the data protected by the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data has indicated that "Of all that has been said
It turns out that the content of the fundamental right to data protection consists of
a power of disposal and control over personal data that empowers the
person to decide which of these data to provide to a third party, be it the State or
an individual, or which can be collected by this third party, and that also allows the individual
know who owns that personal data and for what, being able to oppose that
possession or use. These powers of disposal and control over personal data,
that constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to data protection
are legally specified in the power to consent to the collection, obtaining and use of
access to personal data, its subsequent storage and treatment, as well as

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual. and that right to
consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of personal data,
requires as essential complements, on the one hand, the ability to know everything
moment who has these personal data and to what use is submitting them, and,
on the other hand, the power to oppose that possession and uses.

In short, they are characteristic elements of the constitutional definition of law
fundamental to the protection of personal data the rights of the affected to consent
about the collection and use of your personal data and to know about them. and they turn out
essential to make this content effective the recognition of the right to be
informed of who owns your personal data and for what purpose, and the right to be able
oppose that possession and use by requiring whoever it corresponds to put an end to the
possession and use of data. That is, demanding from the owner of the file that
inform of what data you have about your person, accessing your appropriate records and
seats, and what destination they have had, which also reaches possible assignees; and,
where appropriate, require him to rectify or cancel them."

The object of the fundamental right to data protection is not reduced only to
the intimate data of the person, but to any type of personal data, whether or not
intimate, whose knowledge or use by third parties may affect their rights, whether or not
non-fundamental, because its object is not only individual privacy, which would already be
protected by article 18.1 of the Constitution, but personal data.
In other words, the TC comes to extend this fundamental right to personal data
public, which by the fact of being public cannot escape the power of disposition
of the interested party or affected party, not limiting itself to those related to private life or
personal data of the person, but the data covered and protected are all those
that identify or allow the identification of the person, that can configure their
ideological, racial, sexual, economic profile, etc.

IV.

The infringement attributed to the defendant is typified in the
Article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, which considers that the infringement of "the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the terms of the
Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9" is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, of an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the one with the highest amount”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for the purposes of prescription, which are: "Infractions

considered very serious:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particular, the following:

(…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, the LOPDGDD in its article 77,

 Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors, establishes what
following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applied to the treatments

V

for which they are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.

b) The courts.

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.

e) The independent administrative authorities.

f) The Bank of Spain.

g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of public law powers.

h) Public sector foundations.

i) Public Universities.

j) Consortiums.

k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous legislatures, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
commit any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the competent data protection authority will issue
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body to which it depends hierarchically, if applicable, and to those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if applicable.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the authority of
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and the
The sanctions to be applied will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary regime.
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is accredited
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions to which they refer
the previous two sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referring to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to an autonomous protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

According to the available evidence, the conduct of the
claimed constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article 6.1.a) of the GDPR,
lack the consent of the parents or guardians of the minors that appear in the
video broadcast through the social networks twiter and Instagram.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

The LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the penalty of warning in
relation to the processing of personal data that do not suit their
forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the GDPR provides that "Without prejudice
of the corrective powers of the supervisory authorities under Article 58,
paragraph 2, each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can, and in
what measure, impose administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
established in that Member State.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct, correct the effects of the
infraction that had been committed and its adequacy to the requirements contemplated in
article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, as well as the contribution of means accrediting the
compliance with what is required.

It is necessary to point out that repeating the behavior revealed in the
claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not informing
subsequently to this AEPD of the measures adopted to avoid incidents such as
indicated could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the person in charge of the
treatment in order to effectively apply the measures that guarantee and
do not compromise the legality of the processing of personal data and the
privacy of people.

The corrective powers that the GDPR attributes to the AEPD as authority of

control are listed in article 58.2, sections a) to j).

SAW

Article 83.5 of the GDPR establishes a sanction of an administrative fine (article
58.2.i) for the conducts that are typified therein, without prejudice to the fact that, as provided in the
article 83.2. of the GDPR, administrative fines can be imposed together with
other corrective measures provided for in article 58.2 of the GDPR.

Having confirmed the infringement, it is appropriate to impose on the person responsible the
adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its performance to the aforementioned regulations
in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR,
according to which each control authority may “d) order the person in charge or in charge
of the processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified period”.

In the present case, the defendant is required so that within a period of one month

from the notification of this resolution:

- Accredit the adoption of measures so that they do not occur again
incidents such as the one that gave rise to the disciplinary procedure: the recruitment and
dissemination of images of minors in a video without the consent of their
parents and that the treatments carried out comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation and delete the image of all minors that appear in the
video they have posted on social media.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

 
It is noted that not meeting the requirement can be considered as a
administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as
infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a
subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE MADRID CITY COUNCIL VOX MUNICIPAL GROUP,
with NIF G86867108, for a violation of article 6.1.a) of the GDPR, typified in the
article 83.5. a) of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the VOX MUNICIPAL GROUP
CITY OF MADRID.
THIRD: REQUEST the VOX MUNICIPAL GROUP MADRID CITY COUNCIL,
so that within a month from the notification of this resolution, prove: the
adoption of measures so that incidents like the one that gave
rise to the sanctioning procedure: the capture and dissemination of images of minors
in a video without the consent of their parents and that the treatments
carried out conform to the requirements set forth in article 6.1 of the GDPR and to
delete the image of all minors who appear in the video who have
posted on social media.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal
before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency within a period of one
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be temporarily suspended in administrative proceedings
If the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

through the

  Electronic record of

presenting it to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, would terminate the
injunction suspension

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

