1/11

Notice No. 126/2019 of June 19, 2019

Subject: Draft Royal Decree establishing regulations regarding the quality review of external members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Tax Advisors and setting the terms of use of the engagement letter (CO-A-2019-119)

The Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority");

Considering the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, particularly articles 23 and 26 (hereinafter "LCA");

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter "GDPR");

Considering the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD");

Considering the request for opinion from Kris Peeters, Federal Minister of Employment, Economy, and Consumers, received on April 25, 2019;

Considering the additional information received on May 17, 2019;

Considering the report from Ms. Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Knowledge Center of the Data Protection Authority;

Issues, on June 19, 2019, the following opinion:

Opinion 126/2019 - 2/11

I. 
Subject and context of the request

1. The Federal Minister of Employment, Economy, and Consumers (hereinafter "the requester") seeks the Authority's opinion on articles 20, 21, 22, 29, 35, 38, and 53 of the draft Royal Decree establishing regulations regarding the quality review of external members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Tax Advisors and setting the terms of use of the engagement letter.

2. This draft Royal Decree implements article 28, §3 of the law of April 22, 1999, concerning accounting and tax professions by organizing the oversight of the practice of the profession of chartered accountant and/or tax advisor.

3. The Institute of Chartered Accountants and Tax Advisors (hereinafter IEP), established under article 2 of the aforementioned law of April 22, 1999, has the mission to ensure the training of its members, to monitor compliance with the conditions for access to the profession, to protect the common professional rights and interests of its members, and finally to ensure the proper execution of the missions entrusted to its members and to the persons subject to its supervision and disciplinary power (art. 3 of the aforementioned law of 22/04/99).

4. Article 28 of this law specifies that the oversight mission of the external members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (namely, chartered accountants and tax advisors who perform their function in a company or outside any employment contract or a position remunerated by public authorities) involves verifying:
a. Whether these chartered accountants have the necessary skills, collaborations, and time required to perform their function;
b. Whether they perform with all the diligence and independence required;
c. Whether they do not accept assignments under conditions that could compromise the objectivity of their practice;
d. Whether they do not engage in activities incompatible with the independence of their function.

This same provision also provides for the creation by the King of a Quality Review Commission, whose members are appointed by the IEP Council and which is responsible for organizing the quality review of the working methods of external chartered accountants, the organization of their office, the due diligence carried out notably to comply with the law, regulations, standards, and recommendations, and the manner in which they carry out their missions referred to in articles 34 and 38 of the aforementioned law of April 22, 1999. According to the explanatory memorandum of the law of September 3, 2017 amending the aforementioned law of April 22, 1999, this quality review is implemented...
Notice 126/2019 - 3/11  
place to ensure that clients of the concerned accountants and tax advisors benefit from an acceptable quality of service on their part.  

5. According to Article 28, §3 of the law of April 22, 1999, this Commission is tasked with composing a list of reporters who will carry out on-site inspections, developing the content and practice of the quality review to submit to the Council of the IEP, proposing, where appropriate, to the Council of the IEP to refer an external accountant and/or tax advisor to the competent disciplinary bodies, and proposing, where appropriate, to the Council to adopt one of the sanctions referred to in Article 29 of the aforementioned law (prohibition from practicing the profession, reprimand, etc.).  

II.  
Review  

6. The draft AR aims to determine the quality control procedure that will apply to external accountants and tax advisors every 7 years.  

7. This control will focus on professionals practicing their profession in a company or as independents and may, in certain cases, involve the acquisition of information related to the staff and/or clients of the accountants and tax advisors, who may be natural persons. Consequently, this control will involve the processing of personal data. Given that they aim to execute the public service mission of monitoring this profession conferred by the aforementioned law to the IEP and more specifically to the Quality Review Commission, these processes will have as their legal basis Article 6.1.e of the GDPR.  

8. The legal procedure governing these personal data processing activities must meet the usual quality criteria so that, upon reading, the individuals concerned about whom data is processed can clearly understand the processing of their personal data. In execution of Article 6.3 of the GDPR read in conjunction with Articles 22 of the Constitution and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the essential elements of the processing must be precisely described; namely, its specific purpose(s), the types of data processed that are necessary for achieving this purpose, the categories of individuals concerned about whom data will be processed, the recipients or categories of recipients to whom their data will be communicated, the circumstances under which it will be communicated, as well as all measures aimed at ensuring lawful and fair processing of personal data.  

9. The remarks regarding this draft AR in relation to the GDPR revolve around the following 5 points:  
a. The determined and explicit nature of the purposes of the regulated data processing  
b. Assignment of roles of data controller and processor  
c. Repetition of the GDPR  
d. Data retention period  
e. Types of data collected in the context of the quality review  

a. Determined and explicit nature of the purposes of the regulated data processing  

10. In accordance with Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR, any processing of personal data may only be carried out for determined, explicit, and legitimate purposes.  

11. The purpose of the personal data processing referred to in this case is described in Article 28 of the aforementioned law of April 22, 1990, and is specified in Article 2, paragraph 2 of the draft AR submitted for opinion in these terms: to verify that the professional has an appropriate organization in relation to the nature and extent of their activities and that the professional carries out these activities in accordance with the legal, regulatory, and normative framework. Article 3 in draft form also specifies that the quality review includes an assessment of compliance with this legal framework and the quantity and quality of the means implemented in the context of the inspected file. Article 34 in draft form also specifies, in the same vein, the operational purposes of the on-site quality review.  

12. The notion of "legal, regulatory, and normative framework" and thereby - the scope of the required control in the quality review - is defined in Article 1, 8° in draft form as follows:  
a. the law of April 22, 1999, and its implementing decrees;  
b. the ethical rules as referred to in the law of April 22, 1999, concerning the professional discipline of accountants and tax advisors, and the royal decree of March 1, 1998, establishing the code of ethics for accountants;  
c. the standards and recommendations of the IEP applicable for practicing the profession;  
d. other applicable legislation and regulations for the professional, including anti-money laundering legislation and Book XX of the Code of Economic Law.
Notice 126/2019 - 5/11  
13. In light of the last category of legislations referred to in article 1, 8°, letter d in draft form in non-limiting terms, the Authority notes the indeterminate nature of the purpose of the control. It is appropriate to amend this provision in such a way that at a minimum the object of said regulations and legislations is specified and this in a manner that is compliant with what is necessary and proportionate in light of the objective pursued by the aforementioned law of September 3, 2017, which established this quality review.

b. Assignment of roles of data controller and processor

14. Article 5, para. 3 in draft form assigns the role of data controller (for the data processing that will be carried out within the framework of the quality review) to the IEP, and that of processor to the Quality Review Commission and the (or the) rapporteur(s).

15. When the purposes and means of processing are determined by national law, “the data controller may be designated or the specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided by [national] law.” If Member States can specify the application of GDPR rules in particular areas where they legislate in order to ensure consistency and clarity of the normative framework applicable to data processing in those areas, they cannot, for this reason, deviate from the GDPR or depart from the definitions it establishes. Judging otherwise would not only contradict the letter of the GDPR text but could also jeopardize the objective it pursues of ensuring a consistent and high level of protection for natural persons.

16. Article 4.7 of the GDPR defines the notion of data controller as “the person (…) who, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing.”

17. According to the opinion of the Article 29 Working Party (the predecessor of the European Data Protection Board), the importance to be given to the purposes or means may vary depending on the context in which the processing occurs. One of the recommended angles of analysis to determine the roles of data controller and processor is the degree of latitude left to make decisions regarding the determination of the purposes of processing (specific reasons for which the data is processed), regarding the actual execution of the processing as well as regarding the choice of means put in place to do so; with the nuance that the determination of means implies holding the status of data controller only when it concerns the essential elements of the means (type of data processed, 

3 Article 4.7 of the GDPR  
4 G29, Opinion No. 1/2010 on the notions of “data controller” and “processor” (WP169), February 16, 2010
Notice 126/2019 - 6/11  
Category of concerned persons, frequency of processing operations, duration of retention, potential recipients of the data…). It is indeed accepted that a data controller may delegate the determination of the means of processing (to its subcontractor, for example) without losing its status as a data controller, provided that this delegation only pertains to technical and/or organizational issues. This delegation cannot extend to the determination of the categories of data processed, the duration of retention of the processed data, or the choice of the legal basis for the processing, which must remain the responsibility of the data controller.

18. Based on these criteria, the Authority doubts that the Quality Review Commission and the rapporteurs can be qualified as subcontractors of the data processing they will carry out in the context of their mission to oversee the concerned professionals. Even if they do not have decision-making power regarding the sanctions that will be imposed on the concerned professionals and even if the final assessment on the quality review will be made by the IEP Council after consulting the Quality Review Commission, the data processing that the Quality Review Commission and the rapporteurs will carry out in this context will be performed independently and autonomously as provided for in the draft Article 4. Furthermore, the draft Article 3 provides that the rapporteurs will select the representative files they wish to review based on objective criteria (such as the revenue generated by the missions, the type of missions, and the clientele of the professional) to be specified in a standard that will be defined by the IEP Council.

19. Moreover, any subcontractor, in the sense of Article 4.8 of the GDPR, must by nature be a person or organization legally distinct from that of the data controller. However, the Quality Review Commission does not appear to constitute an organization external to that of the IEP; this is also evident from the additional information obtained from the Minister's delegate, according to which this Commission does not have a legal personality distinct from the IEP and is part of the IEP. The status of the rapporteurs is not clearly defined in the draft AR.

20. Based on these elements, the Quality Review Commission and the rapporteurs could, on the other hand, be considered as persons acting under the direct authority of the data controller (IEP). That being said, in view of the autonomy and independence they must have in the exercise of their mission and the fact that they determine certain characteristics. 

5 Art. 43 of the draft AR  
6 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of data controllers and processors, February 16, 2010, WP 169, p.26.  
7 Article 4 of the draft AR
Notice 126/2019 - 7/11  
essential elements of the data processing referred to (determination of the content and form of the questionnaire, selection of representative files to be verified, collection of additional data if necessary beyond what is included in the standard questionnaire, …), they seem to be considered as jointly responsible for data processing with the IEP for the aforementioned purposes since they share the same objective, namely the quality review of the professionals involved. When two or more data controllers jointly determine the purposes and essential elements of the means of processing, they are jointly responsible for the processing (art. 26 GDPR). However, "the existence of joint responsibility does not necessarily translate into equivalent responsibility [... and, on the contrary, [t]he operators may be involved at different stages of this processing and to different degrees, such that the level of responsibility of each of them must be assessed taking into account all relevant circumstances of the specific case." It is within "the framework of its responsibilities, competencies, and possibilities" that the joint controller will ensure the compliance of its activity with data protection rules. 

21. Therefore, it is up to the author of the draft AR to review the qualification of the roles made at the level of article 5, paragraph 3 in draft in light of these criteria. 

c. Repetition of the GDPR 

22. Article 5 paragraph 8 of the draft AR submitted for opinion may be deleted as it constitutes a repetition of Article 32 of the GDPR. As formulated, this provision indeed violates the prohibition of transcribing the GDPR. 

8 Articles 34 and following of the draft AR.  
9 The criterion of distinct legal personality seems ineffective in determining joint processing responsibility. Based on similar elements, the Court of Justice of the European Union has considered that the members of the Jehovah's Witnesses Community and the Community itself were joint data controllers of the data processing carried out in the context of preaching activities: Judgment of Jehovah's Witnesses, C-25/17, ECLI, EU-C, 2018-551, paras. 70 to 73.  
10 CJEU (Grand Chamber), June 5, 2018 (INDEPENDENT STATE CENTRE FOR DATA PROTECTION SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN v. WIRTSCHAFTSAKADEMIE SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN GMBH), case C-210/16, para. 43. See also, in particular, G29, Opinion No. 1/2010 on the concepts of "data controller" and "processor," February 16, 2010, p. 20.  
11 CJEU (Grand Chamber), May 13, 2014 (GOOGLE SPAIN SL, GOOGLE INC. v. AEPD), case C-132/12, para. 38.  
12 As a reminder, and as the Court of Justice of the European Union has established in consistent case law, the direct applicability of European regulations entails the prohibition of their transcription into domestic law because such a process can "(create) ambiguity regarding both the legal nature of the applicable provisions and the time of their entry into force" (CJEU, February 7, 1973, Commission v. Italy (C-39/72), Reports of Cases, 1973, p. 101, § 17). See also, in particular, CJEU, October 10, 1973, Fratelli Variola S.p.A. v. Italian Finance Administration (C-34/73), Reports of Cases, 1973, p. 981, § 11; CJEU, January 31, 1978, Ratelli Zerbone Snc v. State Finance Administration, Reports of Cases (C-94/77), 1978, p. 99, §§ 24-26.
Notice 126/2019 - 8/11  
d. Data retention period  

23. Articles 20, 21, and 22 of the draft AR address the fate of personal data collected and retained by the rapporteurs in the context of their oversight mission in the event of their resignation, revocation, or temporary suspension. It is provided that all documents related to the quality reviews carried out and ongoing are submitted to the Quality Review Commission, and the rapporteur is required to delete all personal or non-personal data concerning the quality review missions, regardless of the medium.  

24. Regarding this issue of data retention by the rapporteur, the Authority recalls that Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR stipulates that personal data must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ("data minimization"). In this regard, if the rapporteurs are not agents of the IEP acting under its direct authority and if they incur their own liability in the exercise of their oversight mission, they should be allowed to retain the necessary information on how they conducted their quality reviews for the duration of the limitation period for liability actions against them for the exercise of their oversight mission. Depending on the status of the rapporteurs, it is recommended that the author of the draft AR review the wording of these articles and adopt its position if necessary. If the rapporteurs are permitted to retain their files after the end of their quality review mission, the Authority reminds that organizational and technical security measures must surround this retention to guard against any unauthorized access to the data. As soon as a file can be archived, the chosen mode of retention should only confer limited availability and accessibility to the data. Once retention is no longer useful, the data may no longer be retained in a form that allows the identification of the data subjects.  

25. Regarding the data retention period by the Quality Review Commission of the IEP, it follows from the draft Article 53 that all documents related to the quality review will be destroyed in the event of a positive assessment of the professional in the context of their quality review, with the exception of reports and correspondence containing the assessment.  

26. Consequently, the Authority notes that there is no determined retention period for quality review documents in the event of a negative assessment. With the reservation stated above regarding the necessary variability of retention and accessibility modalities over time, the author of the draft AR must complete the draft AR on this matter. The following wording could be suitable: the time necessary for managing the file before the disciplinary bodies of the IEP and in any case not beyond the limitation period for actions that may be brought in the context of the quality review and disciplinary procedure.  

27. Given that they also contain personal data concerning the professionals being reviewed, the retention period by the Quality Review Commission for reports and correspondence containing the positive assessment must also be determined in accordance with Article 5.1.c of the GDPR.  

e. Types of data collected in the context of the quality review  

28. The Authority notes that the principles of proportionality and data minimization require that the data collected in this context be limited to what is strictly necessary based on the operational purposes of the quality review.  

29. The first phase of data collection is organized in Article 29 of the draft AR. It is provided that any on-site quality review will be preceded by the sending of a questionnaire to the professional being reviewed by the Quality Review Commission. The list of data to be collected through this questionnaire is determined therein. The Authority first notes that this list of data must be exhaustive to ensure that the standard governing this data collection provides a correct level of predictability so that the professionals concerned can clearly foresee how their data will be processed. The terms "at least" must therefore be removed.  

30. Furthermore, in order to avoid any vague formulation subject to multiple interpretations, the Authority notes that the following improvements should be made to this draft Article 29:  
a. Instead of using the notion of "identification data of the professional," it is appropriate to specify the categories of data concerned (for example: name, first name, address, BCE number);  
b. The notion of organization referred to in point 2° deserves to be defined or replaced by the terms "organizational structure";  
c. In the same vein, the categories of data relating to staff members must be listed exhaustively and in compliance with the principle of data minimization. In this regard, as it appears from the additional information:  
i. the names of staff members do not seem necessary to determine whether the professional has staff with the necessary capabilities.
Notice 126/2019 - 10/11  
and the required qualifications. It should be specified that this is an anonymized information collection;  
ii. the term "training" should be clarified and refer to the types of ongoing training undertaken;  
iii. Instead of the information regarding "working conditions," it appears more relevant and precise to refer to "the number of collaborators employed by activity as well as the specification regarding their status as independent, employee, intern, or temporary worker."  
d. It emerges from the supplementary information that by "professional missions," the author of the draft AR refers to the list of current clients of the professional. In this regard, the Authority recommends specifying that this client list should be anonymized. If this does not allow for achieving the intended purpose, it is necessary to justify in the report to the King why such a list is necessary at this stage of the Quality Review procedure.  

31. The second phase of data collection is provided for in section 5 of the draft AR, which deals with the on-site quality review. Article 34 begins by recalling the operational purposes of the quality review. Article 35 states that the professional allows access to the office and to all relevant data that the reporter needs to carry out their quality review mission. The Authority reminds that reporters must act in accordance with the principle of proportionality as explained above.  

32. The Authority also reminds that accountants and tax advisors are subject to professional secrecy under Article 58 of the aforementioned law of May 22, 1999. This professional secrecy, by nature, covers the confidential information provided by the clients of the professionals and not the information subject to publicity. According to this Article 58, this secrecy can be lifted for exchanges between professionals and reporters and the Quality Review Commission but only to the strict extent necessary for the accomplishment of the quality review.  

33. Article 36 outlines how the reporter may choose a limited number of representative files of the professional in order to verify their compliance with the legal framework in managing their files. It is specified that the representative files will be chosen based on a list of clients "anonymized at the name level." In this regard, the authority notes that the mere omission of a person's name is not sufficient to ensure their anonymity. It would be more appropriate to specify the characteristics related to the clientele that must be communicated to the reporter (city of the business headquarters, average range in which the turnover falls, national or international activities, area of activities, average duration of the mission, etc.) so that the reporter can determine a limited representative number for conducting their verifications, ensuring that the identification of clients is not possible based on this list of characteristics.  

For these reasons,  
The Authority,  

Considers that the draft Order submitted for opinion must be adapted as follows:  
1. Mention of the purposes of these treatments in such a way that they are determined (cons. 12 and 13);  
2. Determination of the data controllers of the treatments in accordance with the required criteria (cons. 16 to 19);  
3. Deletion of Article 5, paragraph 7 in draft for redundancy with the GDPR (cons. 20);  
4. Correction of Articles 18 to 20 in draft dealing with the data retention period in accordance with considerations 22 and 23 and addition of provisions in this regard for the missing aspects in accordance with considerations 25 and 27;  
5. Correction of Article 29 in draft in accordance with the principle of data minimization (cons. 28 and 29);  
6. Adaptation of Article 36 dealing with the communication of the client list to the reporter in accordance with consideration 33.  

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Alexandra Jaspar  
Acting Administrator  
Director of the Knowledge Center