
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    06.09.2018
                                "Best of Data Protection 2018 - The State Commissioner and his most interesting cases" - The annual press conference of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate On Tuesday, September 11, 2018, from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., the State Commissioner invites you for data protection and freedom of information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI), Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, the media representatives on a review of his activities and exciting data protection cases from the past 12 months. In addition to general information - such as the number of submissions and fine procedures that existed before and since the General Data Protection Regulation came into effect on May 25, 2018 - the LfDI presents interesting cases that have a wide range. This ranges from a cat finder who had received a threat due to a data protection violation by the animal shelter, to the used police notebook that contained pictures and data of traffic offenders who had been "shot by flash". Kugelmann, among other things, about the video-monitored construction sites, where employees could be watched at work online and streamed into the Internet in real time, and about the case of a teaching staff who caught the coffee thief from their own ranks with a hidden camera in the school's own coffee kitchen. The state commissioner Prof. Dr. Kugelmann states: “The selected cases show how colorful the world of data protection is and in how many life situations it plays a role. In addition, the number of complaints from citizens about data protection violations has increased and we, as the data protection supervisory authority, are therefore endeavoring to provide extensive information and sensitization to those responsible and to adequately implement the data protection requirements in administration and business".
                                return
                            



