  Friday, October 19, 2018 2: Press releases Doorbell no data protection violation - from mosquito to elephant The farce surrounding doorbells on houses is making waves. Is it really the case that the General Data Protection Regulation prevents names on the doorbell? Does the landlord have to collect written consent first? What does data protection practice look like? Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, and her deputy Barbara Körffer have been asked about this again and again in recent days. Marit Hansen says: "A storm in a teacup - because the General Data Protection Regulation has not changed anything here. Furthermore, names are allowed on the doorbell, and there may still be exceptions in justified individual cases." The two data protection officers Hansen and Körffer explain the legal situation: "The consent of the tenants is not required. Landlords who want to design signage on the apartment complex and make doorbell signs for their tenants can invoke a legitimate interest: The fact that the names of the tenants are mentioned there is not only in the interest of the tenants who are being visited or who receive postal deliveries or deliveries want, but is also used by rescue workers or the police. It also meets the reasonable expectations of renters. It is important, however, that the landlords must take into account the interests of the tenants that are worthy of protection and that exist in individual cases. This is very clear in the case of a stalking victim: someone who has just had to change their apartment because he or she was previously subjected to stalking may have to fear for life and limb - one should not give their full name here. Of course, this also applies to witness protection programs.” “In practice, none of this is a problem,” emphasize Hansen and Körffer, because: “If the tenants are not responsible for their own doorbells anyway, it definitely makes sense for the landlord to ask in advance the tenants are informed about the plans for a provided doorbell: so that the correct spelling of the name is checked or imminent name changes, e.g. after marriage or divorce, are implemented immediately, so that if there are several roommates, a decision can be made as to which names are to be listed, so that there are duplicate names abbreviated or full first names can be added.” The result: the General Data Protection Regulation does not change anything in this matter and gives no reason to remove names on doorbells or to obtain tenants’ consent. If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstr. 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: GDPR, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure