06/03/2022
A new penalty for breaching GDPR

The National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the Kaufland Romania SCS operator and found a violation of the provisions of art. 29 and art. 32 para. (1) lit. b), paragraph (2) and para. (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Kaufland Romania SCS operator was fined 9,893.2 lei (the equivalent of 2000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of the transmission by the operator, during 2022, of two notifications of personal data security violations under the General Data Protection Regulation.
One of the data security breaches consisted in the unauthorized access of the operator's employees to the personal data of Kaufland customers.
Thus, the employee of the operator who took over the complaint of a petitioner did not comply with the internal procedure for resolving a complaint and allowed the viewing of the document by the security guard who later improperly used the respective data, a situation that led to the violation of the confidentiality of the petitioner's personal data.
During the investigation, it was found that the operator did not ensure adequate technical and organizational measures to ensure that any natural person who acts under the authority of the operator and who has access to personal data only processes them at the request of the operator, violating the provisions of art. . 29 and art. 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The second breach of data security involved the erroneous transmission of a customer's order form via delivery platforms to another recipient.
This situation led to the disclosure and unauthorized access to the personal data (surname, surname, e-mail address, phone number) of the Kaufland customer as a result of the operator's non-compliance with the work procedure in the case of deliveries through partner platforms .
As such, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of security corresponding to the processing risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, generated in particular, accidentally or illegally, by the unauthorized disclosure of personal data.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.