1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00428/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00428/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Ms. A.A.A., owner of the websites: www.cursos.vivirsinansie-
dad.com ; www.agorawings.com/terapia-gratis blog.ataquedeansiedad.com; www.-
nessitaarauz.es and www.agorawings.com/cursos-vivirsinansiedad, (hereinafter, “the
claimed person"), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European and Council Document of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Persons
Physical with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and Free Circulation
of these Data (RGPD), based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 01/31/19, you had entry to this Agency in writing, submitted by
D.B.B.B. (hereinafter, "the claimant"), in which he stated, among others, the following:
“In relation to the Resolution issued by the AEPD with No. R/01140/2018, which I have
received on 12/12/2018, report the following: 1- It is agreed to warn
(A/00104/2018) to the defendant. 2- Require the accused to comply with the
provided for in article 22.2 of the LSSI and with the information obligation provided for in art.
13 of the RGPD.3-Report to the AEPD of compliance with the requirements.

After the notification of the obligations by the AEPD, dated 06/29/2018, the
denounced changed the name of the domain and modified the structure and content of its
websites, but without complying with the established and already informed LSSI and RGDP. As well,
As you can see on the website www.nessitaarauz.es, the defendant has not
complied with the requirement of the AEPD. Still not informing about cookies, no
complies with Art. 22.2 of the LSSI or with Art. 13 of the RGPD. You do not have in your
contact form of the obligation to accept the privacy policy or notice
legal. Just use a little square of I'm not a robot with a recaptcha. Have a
privacy link and conditions, which direct only to google and not to your own
privacy policy and legal notice. Likewise, on the website analyzed by the resolution
mentioned, blog.ataquedeansiedad.com, only reports the cookie notice, which
even if you do not accept them, they are installed anyway. On this page, you have a
subscription, in which it does not report the purpose of the data collected or who is the
owner or recipient of such collected data.

Despite having been notified of the obligations, having been warned and required
to fulfill its obligations, not only has nothing changed, but
nor has it complied with what is required by the AEPD, to inform the AEPD within the period
one month to comply with the requirements. But this is not all, it has opened a new
web www.cursos.vivirsinansiedad.com/subscripciones, in which it does not fulfill any of
what is required by law. In this new website, it directs it to make online payments and the policy of
privacy and legal notice, directs them to a service provider www.podia.com/terms,
when, being the owner of that website, she should report both the legal notice and
privacy of the provider, such as that of the owner user of the web, in this case, the
reported. There is no cookie notice on this website”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, with dates 03/11/19 and 05/12/19, two separate
information requirements to the requested person.

THIRD: On 07/12/19, the requested person submits in writing, in this
Agency, providing, among others, the following information:

“Inform that he had not been aware of the previous communications
issued by this Agency to date, including the aforementioned warning
(AT/00104/2018) with the instructions required for regulatory compliance in the
websites indicated, as well as the remission of the report.

Subsequently, the reasons why during the
dates between 05/01/18 and 04/30/19 I have not resided in the one that had been my
habitual domicile until then and that in addition his communications arrived at another
housing that has been rented since 2017. Having knowledge now of their
communications convey my full intention to collaborate with this Agency and to
to be able to fully comply with their requirements and with the regulations on the matter. Am
willing to remove any content provided in the Facebook group
by the complainant, and even cancel this group if necessary. For this I have
tried to contact Facebook from the possible ways provided by this social network
(attached communications) by not directly allowing me to do either of the two
Actions. I had no record of this exercise of rights. According to the annexes of the
request can observe that this communication was delivered at an address
which is not and has never been my registered or postal address. It is the company of a
family, as indicated in the proof of delivery of Correos: Real Estate
Hispania, Avda Cayetano del Toro 10, receiver data: C.C.C., is one of the
workers. This communication was never delivered to me. In any case, it is
established from the beginning of this website for the reception of rights exercises
arch of any user the account: ***EMAIL.2, and has always been available, such
as you can see in the link below.

I have been doing a training in website creation and digital marketing
(Digital entrepreneurship and infoproduction), which is why I have been creating different
microsites, which in most have not had any type of traffic, access, or collection
any personal data, as they are not positioned in search engines, nor have a duration
over time, many of these have been changed and subsequently eliminated in
few days or weeks. My main website has always been:
https://www.agorawings.com/terapia-gratis in it, if there is a link to the
information on data protection:
 https://www.agorawings.com/politica-de-
data-privacy .

In this privacy policy appears an email in which users can exercise
Your rights regarding data protection: ***EMAIL.2.
This website will not be deleted so that they can verify the information it collects. In
my training activity I have used an internationally recognized platform for the
delivery of these courses that is Podía, a platform that has its own policy of
privacy. I have contacted them and they inform me that they do not allow modifications.
In any case, my Podía students had to previously register in
https://www.agorawings.com/terapia-gratis where they accept their privacy policy.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

In any case, I inform that the complainant's data was not collected through
of these websites, therefore, has not been directly affected by any
non-compliance with them. The complainant first contacted me at
through Facebook without ever having used the indicated websites

FOURTH: On 10/31/19, on the website www.cursos.vivirsinansiedad.com,
checks the existence of a privacy policy accessible from a link with
the name “Privacy” with statements in the English language. In addition, it checks
that the website www.nessitaarauz.es has been suspended, not being able to access the
same and that the web www.agorawings.com/cursos-vivirsinansiedad, is redirected to the
page of: www.agorawings.com/free-therapy
  and that it redirects to the web
www.cursos.vivirsinansiedad.com, through the link, “Go to the Course Platform”.

FIFTH: On 11/01/19, within the framework of the actions carried out by the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in order to clarify certain facts of
which this Spanish Agency for Data Protection has been aware of, and in
use of the powers conferred in the RGPD, information is required from the 1&1 entity
IONOS ESPAÑA, S.L., in the sense that it provides this Agency with information
about, the identification and contact data, including postal address, of the owner of the
domain vivesinansiedad.com and subdomain courses.vivirsinansiedad.com, as well as
their corresponding accommodation.

SIXTH: On 11/11/19, the entity 1&1 IONOS ESPAÑA, SL., sends this
Agency in writing informing that: In the present case, the domain vivesinansiedad.com
and subdomain courses.vivirsinansiedad.com is the same client, being Ms.
A.A.A., NIF:***NIF.1; ***ADDRESS.1 Email: ***EMAIL.1

SEVENTH: In view of the reported facts, the documentation provided by
the parties and in accordance with the evidence available, the Inspection of
Data from this Spanish Data Protection Agency considered that the action
of the claimed entity did not meet the conditions imposed by the regulations in force,
Therefore, the opening of a sanctioning procedure proceeds. Thus, with date
01/31/20, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed to initiate
sanctioning procedure for the person claimed for infraction of article 13 of the
GDPR.

EIGHTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed, by means of a written
dated 02/25/20, made, in summary, the following allegations:

“The different websites to which your communication refers, I created as
practices of a training on digital marketing strategies and info production
(To create Internet courses and Conversion Funnels) but I never got to use them
professionally so they have not generated any type of economic income.

These websites were not positioned, since they were in the beta phase of
production and could only be accessed by users who had the exact URLs in the
that were found, which were also subdomains.

As part of the training provided by the company OlsanaMind S.L., which I enclose certifies
(Annex 1), they taught us to use different production and control tools,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

having to do practices with the platforms: I could https: // for form creation-
tions online and ClickFunnels umm www.clickfunnels.com for creation and management of
funnels. All content on the websites is created and managed within these
platforms, which guaranteed us that they met all the requirements of the current
European regulations on data protection. (Appendix 2). In fact I have
confirmed, on the websites that are created with these tools, that they do not allow
have modification of the Privacy Policy displayed, which is a text that they include
yen, and do not allow the inclusion of any tool to control cookies.

About the cookies generated on these websites, I have not had any access to that
information that could be collected from users, since, although the domains are
in my name, really all the management was done through the platforms that
manage these tools. I thought that this training and the websites created in the
practices could become a business for my activity in the future, and I invested
a lot of time and resources, but after learning of the complaint before this
Agenda I abandoned the idea of using these tools.

I stopped paying the platforms (Annex 3) a few months ago and deactivated in your panel
of control the websites that it managed. Still, after receiving the
communications this month by this Agency, I have been able to verify
surprising way for me, that some subdomains had continued to work,
although only in some supports (in mobile devices no, but in browser of
pc) something totally illogical, since the tool with which it was used was no longer being paid for.
These microsites have been generated and managed and have been deactivated.

In compliance with the requirements of this Agenda, I have proceeded to contact
contact with the platforms and also with domain service providers and
accommodations so that it is confirmed that none of these websites remain in
functioning. (Annex 5)

Therefore, please bear in mind that there has been no intention of
fail to comply with the reference regulations, that there has been no economic profit, that
corrective measures have been taken to put an end to possible
breaches and that also as a result of the reported facts, I understand that neither;
no harm has been caused to the complainant or to other potentially affected parties. Throughout
case, I also understand that with the suppression of the websites, the right of the
potentially affected is fully guaranteed through the application of the
measures required by this Agency.

NINTH: On 04/01/20, the existence of the following was verified:
reported websites, resulting in the following messages:

- This website cannot be accessed. Address could not be found

IP of the www.cursos.vivirsinansiedad.com server.

- This website cannot be accessed. Address could not be found

IP of the server of www.agorawings.com/terapia-gratis.

- This website cannot be accessed. Address could not be found

IP of the www.nessitaarauz.es server.

- This website cannot be accessed. Address could not be found

IP of the server of www.agorawings.com/cursos-vivirsinansiedad.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

TENTH: On 06/16/20, a resolution proposal is issued with the indication of
that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, proceed to the
ARCHIVING of this sanctioning procedure as there is no violation of the
polished in the LSSI.

ELEVENTH: The proposed resolution was notified on 07/30/20, as of
today, there is no evidence that any response has been given within the period granted
for this by the person claimed.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- On 11/15/19, in the verification that was carried out on the web pages denouncing
ciated, the following was found:

a) That the website cannot be viewed: blog.ataquedeansiedad.com, since the access

so to it is only with prior invitation from the author of the blog.

b) That the website www.nessitaarauz.es has been suspended, it no longer exists.

c) That the website www.agorawings.com/cursos-vivirsinansiedad is redirected to

www.agorawings.com/free-therapy.

d) From the web www.agorawings.com/terapia-gratis you can access the web
www.cursos.vivirsinansiedad.com, through the link “Go to the Platform of
Courses".

2º.- On 04/01/20, after receiving the allegations to initiate the file, by
part of the claimed person, it has been found that:

-

The IP of the server of the reported web pages does not exist: www.cursos.vivir-
sinansiedad.com ; www.agorawings.com/free-therapy ; www.nessitaarauz.es
; www.agorawings.com/cursos-vivirsinansiedad.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each Authority of
Control and, as established in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Rights
chos Digitales (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to initiate this procedure.
Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the powers
investigative and corrective measures that the supervisory authority may order for this purpose,
mentioning in point 1.d), that of: “notifying the person in charge or in charge of the treatment
to the presumed infractions of this Regulation” and in 2.i), that of: “imposing a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned
mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case.”

II

In the present case, on 10/31/19, it was verified by this Agency that,
on the reported websites there was a form that could collect personal data from
customers, but the privacy policy was written in English.
Notified to the claimed person, owner of the web pages, the initiation of an ex-
pending sanction for violating the provisions of current legislation in relation to
with the privacy policy, it alleged that the denounced websites were created as
practices of a training on digital marketing strategies and info production,
but he never got to use them professionally. It further indicates that those websites
they were not positioned, since they were in beta phase of production. No ob-
However, in compliance with the requirements of this Agenda, I proceeded to contact
contact with the platforms and also with domain service providers and
lodgings to remove functioning websites.
On 04/01/20, by this Agency, it was found that the IPs no longer existed
of the server of the reported web pages.

Therefore, in the present case, after analyzing the information, the
documents provided and the concurrent circumstances, it is not possible to evidence a
possible violation of current legislation on privacy policy as there is no longer
the denounced web pages, so in view of the above, we proceed to issue
The next:

RESOLVE

FILE: procedure PS/00428/2019, initiated against Ms. A.A.A., for alleged in-
section to article 13 of the RGPD.
NOTIFY: this Agreement to Ms. A.A.A.
In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

