DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998  

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY  PENALTY  NOTICE 

To:  Fortis Insolvency Limited 
 

 

 

 

Of:  683-687 Wilmslow Road, Didsbury, Manchester M20 6RE 

   

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
issue Fortis Insolvency Limited (FIL) with a monetary penalty under 
section 55A of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The penalty is in 
 
relation to a serious contravention of Regulation 22 of the Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (“PECR”). 

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIL, whose registered office address is given above (Companies House 
Registration Number: 09870591) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have transmitted unsolicited communications by means of 
 
electronic mail to individual subscribers for the purposes of direct 
marketing contrary to regulation 22 of PECR. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 22 of PECR states: 

 

 

 

 
1 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
5. 
 
 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 
marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 
 
or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6. 
 

7. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 
   
 

Consent in PECR, between 29 March 2019 and 31 December 2020, was 
 
defined by reference to the concept of consent in Regulation 2016/679 
 
(“the GDPR”): regulation 8(2) of the Data Protection, Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019. Article 4(11) of the GDPR sets out the following definition: 
“‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, specific, 
 
informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by 
 
which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 
 
signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him 
 
or her”. 
  
 
From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR  has been defined by reference 
 
to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 
 
 
the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 
 
 
Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 
 
definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 
 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 
 
wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 
 
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 
 
to him or her”. 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
 
April  2016 (“GDPR”)  as it forms part of  the  law  of England  and  Wales, Scotland  and  Northern  Ireland  by virtue 
 
  
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

8. 
 

9. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Recital 32  of  the  UK  GDPR materially  states  that  “When  the  processing 
 
has  multiple  purposes,  consent should be  given  for  all of  them”.  Recital 
 
42 materially provides that “For consent to be informed, the data subject 
 
should  be  aware  at  least  of  the  identity  of  the  controller”.  Recital  43 
 
materially  states  that “Consent is  presumed not to  be  freely  given  if  it 
 
does  not allow separate  consent to  be  given  to  different  personal data 
 
processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case”. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
   
 

 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 
 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 
 
voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 
 
 
communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 
 
 
recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 
 
includes messages sent using a short message service”. 

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
12.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
PECR, as variously amended) states: 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   
“(1) The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
the Commissioner is satisfied that – 

 
 
(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 
 
Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 
 

 
(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
4 

11. 
 

 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 
 
(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 
   
 

   
   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that the 
 
contravention would occur, but 
 
(b) failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
contravention.” 
 

 
13.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 
 
published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 
 
Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 
 
that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 
not exceed £500,000. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
rights. 
 
  

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Background to the case 
 

 

16.  Mobile users can report the receipt of unsolicited marketing text 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
messages to the Mobile UK’s Spam Reporting Service by forwarding the 
 
message to 7726 (spelling out “SPAM”). Mobile UK is an organisation 
 
that represents the interests of mobile operators in the UK. The 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

Commissioner is provided with access to the data on complaints made 
 
to the 7726 service and this data is used to identify organisations in 
 
breach of PECR. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
17.  FIL operate within the financial sector providing advice and services to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

businesses and individuals that are facing financial and operational 
problems. FIL have three directors: Matthew Andrew Kay, Christopher 
 
Kenneth Parry, and Daniel Taylor. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
18.  FIL first came to the attention of the Commissioner through analysis of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
7726 data. The following is an example of a message that was 
  
forwarded to 7726. 
 
 
“Hi Gavin Unfortunately your loan application has been declined. 
However, the good news is that you do appear to qualify for a debt 
 
relief plan that can consolidate all of your debts into one manageable 
 
payment and even write off up to 85%! Please click the link below to 
 
find out how much you can write off: https://tinyurl.com/4jcjep65All 
Advice is free and Confidential. Kind Regards Fortis Debt Advice Or opt-
 
out at vsms.co/GB”  (Sic) 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
19. 
 

20. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 

In response to the complaints identified, the Commissioner commenced 
 
an investigation against FIL, with a view to determining whether the 
SMS marketing conducted by FIL was compliant with the Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communication (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (PECR). 
 
 
Initial investigations included gathering information from FIL’s website 
 
at www.fortisinsolvency.co.uk. On 26 July 2021 screenshots were 
 
taken of FIL’s About Us page, Home Page and Privacy Policy. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.  As the complaints against FIL were generated over a 12 month period, 
 
this investigation considered the period 26 July 2020 to 26 July 2021 to 
 
 
gather a complete picture of FIL’s SMS marketing practices. 
 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.  This investigation found that between 26 July 2020 to 26 July 2021, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

810 complaints had been recorded on the 7726 system. Over this same 
 
period no complaints were recorded on the ICO’s Online Reporting Tool 
system. All messages sent during this period included a link to FIL’s 
 
website and instructions on how the individual could opt-out of further 
 
marketing. 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23.  On 18 August 2021, an initial investigation letter was sent to FIL which 
 
outlined the Commissioner’s concern’s regarding FIL’s compliance with 
 
 
regulation 22 of PECR. This letter also requested that FIL provide 
 
information in relation to FIL’s direct marketing practices and evidence 
 
of consent relied upon to market to individuals who had submitted a 
 
complaint. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.  On 13 September 2021, FIL provided its response which stated that 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the period between July 2020 and July 2021: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  FIL sent a total of 410,235 SMS to credit broker leads, of which 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

381,871 were delivered. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  FIL sent a total of 223,888 SMS to non-credit broker leads, of which 
 
 
215,482 were delivered (NB FIL stated that this figure includes SMS 
 
to clients actively starting their Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
('IVA') journey and those that had an approved IVA). 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
7 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
25.  On 8 March 2022, the Commissioner wrote to FIL requesting further 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
information regarding the volume of non-credit broker leads, 
 
specifically confirmation of the total number of SMS that were sent and 
 
successfully delivered to leads provided by 
 
(' 
 
informed the ICO that of the total SMS that were sent to non-credit 
broker leads, 148,119 had been sent to leads provided by 
 
these, 145,610 had been successfully delivered. 
 
 

'), a third party who provided leads to FIL. On 16 March 2022, FIL 
 

, of 
 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26.  FIL went on to confirm that the data used to send marketing messages 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

was made up of data captured from a number of sources, data 
 
captured directly from customers is done so when a customer visits 
 
 
one of FIL’s websites: 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  www.fortisinsolvency.co.uk: this was one of two main 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

 
   

websites used by FIL to capture personal data from individuals. 
 
This website has a dedicated page for the personal services that 
 
 
FIL provides which also includes a description of IVAs. FIL’s 
 
contact telephone number and a link to request a call back is also 
 
 
provided on this page. No opt-in/opt-out to marketing is provided 
on this page however any contact with FIL would have to be 
 
initiated by the individual and therefore any further contact would 
 
 
be viewed as solicited communications under PECR. 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  www.fortisdebtadvice.co.uk: this was the second of two main 
 
 
websites operated by FIL to capture personal data. This website’s 
 
main page is dedicated to debt solutions and contains reviews 
 
and testimonies from previous customers who have used FIL’s 
 
services. A link on this page titled ‘Find My Solution’ takes the 
 
customer through a series of questions, requesting information 
 
about the individual’s personal circumstances. At the end of this 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

process the individual is presented with a notification which 
 
states “Great News! We can help…” the individual is then asked 
to enter their contact details to see their results. Below the 
 
submit button the following statement is provided: 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“By submitting this form and based on your requirements you 
 
agree we can contact you by phone, email and SMS and to our 
 
Privacy Policy.” 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

No opt-in/opt-out to marketing is provided on this page, 
 
however, any contact with FIL would have to be initiated by the 
 
customer and therefore any further contact would be viewed as 
 
solicited. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 

 
 
   

  www.debt-made-simple.co.uk: this offers IVAs and Debt 
 
Management Plans ('DMP') with one of FIL’s trusted partners. 
 
After selecting the option to “Speak To Us Now” the individual is 
 
then taken to a page which contains a chatbot style interaction 
 
which requests further information about the individual’s personal 
 
circumstances. Before the individual enters their details, they are 
 
asked to accept the website’s privacy policy. No opt-in/opt-out to 
 
marketing is provided on this page however any contact with FIL 
 
would have to be initiated by the customer and therefore any 
 
further contact would be viewed as solicited. However, marketing 
communications sent by third party organisations to individuals 
 
who have submitted their details on this website would be viewed 
 
as non-compliant due to the failure to obtain consent. 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  www.bigcleverdad.co.uk: Big Clever Dad is a trading style of 
 
 
FIL which again offers IVAs and DMPs with one of FIL’s trusted 
 
partners. After selecting the option to ‘Get A Free Debt 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

Assessment’ the individual is again taken to a page containing a 
 
chatbot style interaction which requests further information about 
the individual’s personal circumstances. Before the individual 
enters their details, they are asked to agree to the website’s 
 
standard terms and privacy policy. No opt-in/opt-out to 
 
marketing is provided on this page however any contact with FIL 
 
would have to be initiated by the customer and therefore any 
 
further contact would be viewed as solicited. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27.  FIL explained that when data was obtained directly from customers on 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their website, individuals were asked to complete a data form. FIL 
 
states that this form specifically asked how the individual would like to 
 
be contacted i.e., SMS, Email, Telephone. FIL stated that prior to 
 
clicking submit the individual was asked whether they had read and 
 
agreed to FIL’s Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28.  After reviewing the websites owned and operated by FIL, the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

Commissioner found that individuals entered their details into these 
 
websites to obtain either a quote or further information regarding ways 
 
to deal with their debt. As the individuals were entering their details 
 
and actively requesting this information, any communications made to 
 
 
these individuals regarding debt management would be viewed as 
 
solicited marketing and therefore fall outside of PECR. As such, for the 
 
 
purposes of this investigation the Commissioner was not concerned 
 
with the communications sent by FIL to those individuals who have 
 
entered their details directly into websites owned and operated by FIL. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29.  Further information provided by FIL indicated that data is also obtained 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
from three third party websites: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

30.  These third-party websites are owned and operated by two 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

and 
 

. On 29 
 
 

organisations, 
 
September 2021, a letter was sent to FIL requesting a breakdown of 
 
SMS volumes dependent on third party suppliers. FIL responded on 12 
 
 
October 2021 stating that between 26 July 2020 and 26 July 2021, 
 
410,235 SMS were sent using leads supplied by 
 
period 148,119 SMS had been sent to leads supplied by 
 
 

. During this same 
 
 

 
 

 
 

. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31.  FIL broke down these complaints further to indicate where the source 
 
of the complainant’s data had been obtained. Of these complaints, 13 
 
had been generated from data obtained from FIL’s own websites, 15 
 
 
complaints had been generated from data obtained from 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
and 795 complaints 
 
 

 

 

 

 

generated from data obtained from 
 
 
In their 13 September 2021 correspondence, FIL claimed: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Fortis contracts with third parties who collect specific consent to allow 
their customers details to be passed on to us. Fortis implements a Data 
 
Sharing Agreement and a separate (or sometimes combined) 
commercial contract. We ensure we carry out due diligence on all third 
 
 
parties who provide customer data to Fortis for processing”. 
 

 
   

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11 

32. 
 

 

 

 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
33.  To evidence this consent capture, FIL provided the Commissioner with 
 
walkthroughs of the data collection process alongside privacy policies 
 
for each of the following organisations: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIL breaks these 
 

 

 

organisations down into Credit Brokers and Non-Credit brokers, with 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

being identified as the former whilst 
 

 

 

 
the latter. 
 
 

 
 

 

34.  From the information provided in the walkthroughs for 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

the individual inputs their 
 
 

 
information into these websites to obtain either a loan or further 
 
 
information on how  to write off their current debt. However, 
 
throughout this process of data collection the messaging appeared to 
 
indicate that any further interaction will be with the owner of the 
 
website. The only example provided which indicates that these services 
 
will be provided by third-party organisations is the last paragraph on 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

online form which states that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“One of our debt relief partners will give you a super quick chat about 
 
your circumstances, and will then offer the best solutions available to 
 
 
you”. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35.  However, this information is only presented to the individual after they 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

have submitted their contact details and completed the online form. 
 
Furthermore, all three websites stated that this information would be 
 
provided via telephone, no mention is made of communications being 
made via SMS. 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
12 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
36.  As such, the Commissioner is satisfied that from the information 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

provided by FIL, at no point during the data collection process, which 
 
occurred on 
 

 
websites, was there an opportunity to opt in or out of receiving 
 

and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

marketing. 
  

 
37.  Although the walkthroughs provided by FIL at the beginning of this 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
evidenced 
investigation 
 

 

screenshots 
 
 

of 
 
 

 

 

 

 

privacy policy without FIL listed as trusted third party, 
 
 
this now appears to have been corrected in the current version of the 
 
 
 
privacy policy remains unchanged and 
policy. However, 
 
 
does not currently list FIL as a third party. 
 
 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

38.  As such, the Commissioner is of the opinion that this indicates that 
 
even if valid consent had been obtained by these organisations, FIL 
 
would still have failed to obtain valid indirect consent to market to 
 
these individuals due to not being listed as a third-party organisation, 
 
therefore making it improbable that a customer would anticipate their 
 
details being passed to FIL. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

   

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

39.  FIL refuted the sending of marketing messages and maintained that 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

the messages sent were solicited by the individual and would therefore 
 
not fall under PECR. However, the Commissioner's investigation found 
that the individuals entering their details into third party websites were 
 
not sufficiently informed that by doing so they were requesting solicited 
marketing from FIL. As such these messages would be viewed as 
 
unsolicited marketing messages, therefore falling under the rules that 
 
govern PECR specifically Regulation 22. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
balance of probabilities. 
 

 

 

 

 
13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
41.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a contravention of regulation 22 of PECR by FIL and, if so, whether the 
 
 
 
conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied. 
  
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The contravention 
 

42.  The Commissioner finds that FIL contravened regulation 22 of PECR. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44.  The Commissioner finds that between 26 July 2020 and 26 July 2021 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there were 558,354 direct marketing SMS messages sent with 527,481 
 
received by subscribers. The Commissioner finds that FIL transmitted 
those direct marketing messages, contrary to regulation 22 of PECR. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
45.  FIL, as the sender of the direct marketing, is required to ensure that it 
 
is acting in compliance with the requirements of regulation 22 of PECR, 
 
and to ensure that valid consent to send those messages had been 
 
acquired. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
46.  For consent to be valid it is required to be “freely given”, by which it 
   
follows that if consent to marketing is a condition of subscribing to a 
   
service, the organisation will have to demonstrate how the consent can 
 
be said to have been given freely. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

47.  Consent is also required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 
 
organisation, that will be sending it. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
14 

 

 

 

 

   

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
48.  Consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not understand what 
 
they are consenting to. Organisations should therefore always ensure 
 
that the language used is clear, easy to understand, and not hidden 
 
away in a privacy policy or small print. Consent will not be valid if 
 
individuals are asked to agree to receive marketing from “similar 
 
organisations”, “partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar 
 
generic description. 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
49. 
 

 

 

 

In this instance the Commissioner is satisfied that the websites owned 
 
failed to obtain appropriate consent for 
and operated by 
 
 
third party marketing. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50.  Consequently, the Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

evidence he has seen that FIL did not have the necessary valid consent 
for the 527,481 direct marketing messages received by subscribers. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
51.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
under section 55A DPA are met. 
 
 
Seriousness of the contravention 
 
 

 

52.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified above 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

was serious. This is because between 26 July 2020 and 26 July 2021, a 
   
confirmed total of 558,354 direct marketing messages were sent by FIL 
 
of which 527,481 were delivered. These messages contained direct 
marketing material for which subscribers had not provided valid 
 
consent, furthermore the Commissioner is satisfied that FIL cannot rely 
 
on the soft opt-in exemption. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

53.  Additionally, the contravention has been further compounded by the 
 
fact that the individuals FIL is marketing to, as most of the services 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appear directed to individuals who are in debt, are likely to contain a 
   
high number of financially vulnerable individuals. By directing 
 
marketing to these individuals, it could signify the potential profiteering 
from those vulnerable individuals. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
54.  Further, the volume of complaints to the 7726 SPAM Reporting Service 
 
(810) is a strong indicator that the actions of FIL created some degree 
 
of nuisance which caused certain individuals to submit a complaint. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
55.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
section 55A(1) DPA is met. 

 

 

 

 
 
Deliberate or negligent contraventions 
 

 

 

56.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, this means that 
 
FIL's actions which constituted that contravention were deliberate 
 
 
actions (even if FIL did not actually intend thereby to contravene 
 
PECR). 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
57.  The Commissioner does not consider that FIL deliberately set out to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
contravene PECR in this instance. 
 

 

 

 
 

 
58.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the contravention 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
identified above was negligent. This consideration comprises two 
 
elements: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
59.  Firstly, he has considered whether FIL knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that there was a risk that these contraventions would 
 
occur. He is satisfied that this condition is met, given that FIL were 
 
aware of PECR and had been compliant to a certain level but had not 

 
   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
16 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
fully executed the details in order to operate within the law. The 
 
 
organisation clearly identified itself in their SMS messaging. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

60.  The Commissioner has published detailed guidance for those carrying 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
   

out direct marketing explaining their legal obligations under PECR. This 
 
guidance gives clear advice regarding the requirements of consent for 
 
direct marketing and explains the circumstances under which 
 
organisations are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, 
 
 
by email, by post, or by fax. In particular it states that organisations 
 
can generally only send, or instigate, marketing messages to 
 
individuals if that person has specifically consented to receiving them. 
 
The guidance also provides a full explanation of the “soft opt-in” 
 
exemption. The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance on 
 
consent under the GDPR. In case organisations remain unclear on their 
 
 
obligations, the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO 
communications about previous enforcement action where businesses 
 
have not complied with PECR are also readily available. 
 
 
It is therefore reasonable to suppose that FIL should have been aware 
 
of its responsibilities in this area. 
 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

61. 
 

62.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether FIL failed 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to take reasonable steps to prevent the contraventions. Again, he is 
 
satisfied that this condition is met. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

63.  The Commissioner produces clear guidance via its website on the rules 
 
of direct marketing. In addition, the Commissioner operates a helpline 
 
should organisations require further clarification or assistance with 
 
specific enquiries. The Commissioner has also published details of 
 
penalties issued for breaches of PECR for several years. The 
 
Commissioner's investigations found that FIL's policies showed an 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
17 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
awareness of PECR. As such, it would have been reasonable to expect 
 
FIL to make clear steps to comply with the relevant regulation. 
 
 
In the circumstances, the Commissioner is satisfied that FIL failed to 
 
take reasonable steps to prevent the contraventions. 
 
 
 

64. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

65.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55A (1) DPA is met. 
 

 

 

 

 

The Commissioner’s decision to issue a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

 
66.  The Commissioner has taken into account the following 

 

 

 

 

 

 
aggravating feature of this case: 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  The Commissioner's investigation has found that since the 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

commencement of the investigation into FIL there have been 8,353 
 
complaints submitted to the 7726 reporting service relating to direct 
 
marketing SMS sent by FIL. These complaints continued after 18 
 
 
August 2021 when the Commissioner initially notified FIL of its 
 
investigation. However, the Commissioner has been only able to 
 
 
confirm that 810 complaints definitely fell into the scope of the 
 
contravention. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
67.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 
 
also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
 
complied with. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
68.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, in which the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching his final 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
18 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
 

 
 

view, the Commissioner has taken into account the representations 
 
 
made by FIL on this matter. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
69.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty in 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
this case. 
 

 
70.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
71.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

penalty on FIL. In doing so, the Commissioner has given careful 
 
 
consideration to the representations made by FIL in response to the 
 
Notice of Intent. However, the Commissioner has decided that a 
 
 
penalty nevertheless remains the appropriate course of action in the 
 
circumstances of this case. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
72.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   
 
 

 
penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The sending of 
 
unsolicited direct marketing messages is a matter of significant public 
concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 
   
encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 
deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 
   
businesses currently engaging in these practices. The issuing of a 
 
monetary penalty will reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that 
 
they are only messaging those who specifically consent to receive 
 
direct marketing. 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
73. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 
the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 
 
the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
19 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 
ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 
 
the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 
 
proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 
 
 
of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
 
businesses. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
penalty in this case. 

 

 

 

 
The amount of the penalty 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

75.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 
 
that a penalty in the sum of £30,000 (thirty thousand pounds) is 
 
reasonable and proportionate given the particular facts of the case and 
 
the underlying objective in imposing the penalty. 
 
 
Conclusion 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
76.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
BACS transfer or cheque by 27 July 2023 at the latest. The monetary 
 
penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into the 
Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account at 
 
the Bank of England. 
 
 
If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
 
 
26 July 2023 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary penalty by 
 
20% to £24,000 (twenty-four thousand pounds) However, you 
   
 
should be aware that the early payment discount is not available if you 
  
decide to exercise your right of appeal. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
20 

77. 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
78.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
against: 
 
 
(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 
 

 

 

 

 

 

and/or; 
 

              
 

 

 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 
 
     
 

notice. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

79.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 
  
 
Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80. 
 

81.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unless: 
 
 

  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 
 
 

 

 

 

 

penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
 
penalty has not been paid; 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 
 
 

 

 

 

variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 
 
 

  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 

 

variation of it has expired. 
 
 

 

 

82. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 
 
 
recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 
 
Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 
 
 
an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
 
 
issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland. 
  

   
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Dated the 27th day of June 2023 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
21 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
Andy Curry 
 
Head of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
22 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
ANNEX  1  
 

SECTION  55  A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998   

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST  DECISIONS OF THE  COMMISSIONER  

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
   

Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 
 

1. 
 
upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 
 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 
against the notice. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 

a) 
accordance with the law; or 
 
 
b) 
 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 
 
his discretion differently, 
  
 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 
 
3. 
 
Tribunal at the following address: 
 
                 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
                 

 

General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
 
PO Box 9300 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
23 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

                 
                 

Leicester 
 
LE1 8DJ 
  

 

 
 
 
 

4. 
 
 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: 
 

grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

 

 

The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
 
Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice. 
  
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b) 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
 
unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 
 
 
rule. 
 
 
The notice of appeal should state:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 

your name and address/name and address of your 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

representative (if any); 
 
b) 

     

an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

you; 
 
 
c) 

     

the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
d) 
 
 
e) 
 
 
f) 
 
 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the result that you are seeking; 
 

 

 

 

 

the grounds on which you rely; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
24 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 
 

g) 
 
monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 
 
 
h) 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 
 
 
notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 
 
 
and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 
 
time. 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 
 

 
5. 
 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 
 
 
whom he may appoint for that purpose. 
 
 
6. 
 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 
Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
 
(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 
 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
25 

