Opinion 35/2021 on  the  draft decision of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Belgium regarding the approval of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 30 November 2021

Adopted

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
PREFIX .............................................................................................................................6
2.2.1
GENERAL REMARKS.........................................................................................................6
2.2.2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ...........................................................7
2.2.3
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................7
2.2.4
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS...............................................................................................7
2.2.5
2.2.6
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.......................................................................8
Conclusions / Recommendations...................................................................................................8
Final Remarks .................................................................................................................................9

Adopted

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference to  Article 43 GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which
will contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

The Belgian  supervisory authority (hereinafter  “BE SA”) has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 5 October 2021.
The BE national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional
requirements set up by the BE SA, once they are approved by the BE SA, following an opinion from
the  Board  on  the  draft  requirements,  to  accredit  certification  bodies. The BE SA  will  perform
accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria]

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the BE SA has decided to resort
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB) for  the  issuance  of accreditation,  having  put  together
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when
issuing accreditation.

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

This assessment of BE SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their Annex 1. Furthermore,  the EDPB’s
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact on a  consistent  approach  regarding  the
accreditation of certification bodies.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements.
However, the Board considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and
review as required.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the BE
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the BE SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the BE SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:

a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering

any deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied

by the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:
Adopted

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

e.

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority
must also be applied;

f. Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body;

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 PREFIX

10.

11.

12.

13.

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and
transparency,  the  Board considers  that  such  terms of  cooperation,  where existing,  shall  be made
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.

2.2.2 GENERAL REMARKS

Under the same section “terms and definitions” the Board encourages the BE SA to complete the
GDPR definition as follows “Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27
April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC”. Similarly, the Board encourages the BE SA to remove
the “and/or by a supervisory authority” from the definition of terms and definitions.

For  completeness  and  consistency  purposes,  the  Board  encourages  the  BE  SA  to  make  sure  that  where
throughout  the  requirements  there  is  a  reference  to  a  section  of  ISO,  to  ensure  that  the  relevant  ISO  is
mentioned (e.g. 7.3.(2) the reference to ISO 17065 is missing).

The Board encourages the BE SA to ensure the consistency of terms, such as “shall” throughout the entire draft
accreditation  requirements and  to  make  sure  that  all  the  “should”  have  been  replaced  with  “shall” (e.g.  in
Section 9.3.4 “relevant complaints and objections should be shared with the Belgian DPA” and section 7.6. “In
addition to item 7.6.1 of ISO 17065, the certification body should be required [...]”).

Similarly, the Board encourages the BE SA to replace under section 7.4. of the draft requirements the term
“existing certification” with the term “ data protection certification”.

Adopted

2.2.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION

14.

In addition, the Board notes the obligation to lay down rules preventing conflicts of interest. The Board
acknowledges the importance to have requirements that ensure, firstly, that there are no conflicts of
interests and, secondly, in case conflicts of interest are identified, that the certification body manages
them. Therefore, the Board encourages the BE SA to clarify that, in addition to having rules preventing
conflicts, there should be clear rules to manage identified conflicts of interests.

15. With respect to the section 4.2 “Management of impartiality”, the Board encourages the BESA to
provide more examples of situations where certification body has no relevant connection with the
customer it assesses (e.g. the non-existence of a contractual relationship between the certification
body and the customer). The Board takes note of the obligation, as provided under section 4.1.2 (9),
that if the consequences of withdrawal or suspension of accreditation of the certification body has an
impact on the client, the consequences must be addressed.  The Board notes the obligation to address
consequences that may impact the client. However, for the Board it is not entirely clear that there is
an  obligation  to  ensure  that  the  client  is  aware  of  such  consequences.  Therefore,  the  Board
encourages the BE SA to redraft the requirement so to make clear that the client should be informed
of consequences that affect him/her.

16.

Similarly,  the  Board  takes  note  that  the  potential  options  or  actions  to  be  taken  in  the  above
mentioned case are missing from the BE SA’s accreditation requirements. The Board considers that,
in order to ensure that certification agreements accurately reflect not only the consequences and
impacts on the client, but also the potential further actions. The BE SA’s accreditation requirements
should make clear that simply stating the consequences without addressing the potential next steps
will  not  be  sufficient.  Thus,  the  EDPB  encourages  the  BE  SA  to  make  clear  in  its  accreditation
requirements that the clients should be aware of the consequences, the impact they have on them
and the potential next steps that may be taken.

2.2.4 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS

17. Moreover, the Board considers that the expertise requirements for evaluators and decision-makers
should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the Board
is of the opinion that evaluators should have a more specialist expertise and professional experience
in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should have a more
general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection. Considering
this, the Board encourages the BE SA to redraft the requirements taking into account the different
substantive  knowledge  and/or  experience  requirements  for evaluators  and  decision-makers. With
regard to the reference to the knowledge of decision-makers of the ISO 17065 and the additional
accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  that the  same  requirement  could  be  applicable  to
personnel in charge of evaluation, and encourages the BE SA to amend the draft accordingly.

2.2.5 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS

18.

The Board notes that under section 7.4 of the draft accreditation requirements, the BE SA makes
reference  to  the  possibility  that  the  evaluation  is  carried  out  by  subcontractors.  The  Board
recommends the BE SA to clearly underline that the certification body will retain the responsibility for
the decision-making, even if it uses external experts. The Board highlights that external actors should
not  be  involved  in  decision-making  process  and  that  this  needs  to  be  clearly  underlined  in  the
requirements.
Adopted

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

The Board takes note of the general process requirements, as listed in section 7.1 of the BE SA’s draft
accreditation criteria. However, the EDPB highlights that the obligation of the accreditation body to
notify the relevant CSAs before a certification body starts operating an approved EU Data Protection
Seal in a new Member State is missing. Therefore, the Board recommends that the BE SA modifies its
requirements accordingly so to bring section 7.1(2) of the latter in line with the section 7.1(2) of the
Guidelines.

The Board notes that the section 7.6 of the BE SA’s draft requirements, includes the obligation to
submit  the  draft  approval  to  the  BE  SA,  prior  to  issuing  or  renewing  certification.  The  Board
understands that the intention of this requirement is to increase transparency and it does not entail
a supervision of the draft approval by the Supervisory Authority, without prejudice to its power of
Article 58(2)(h) GDPR. The Board encourages the BE SA in include a clarification thereof in the relevant
section of its accreditation requirements.

The Board observes that under section 7.8 of the BE SA’s accreditation requirements, the obligation
to inform the competent SA of the reasons for granting or revoking the requested certification is
missing.  According  to  the  section  7.8  of  the  Annex  to  the Guidelines,  there  is  an  obligation  to
proactively inform the SA of the reasons for granting or revoking the certification. Therefore, the
Board recommends the BE SA to amend this requirement accordingly.

In  addition,  the  Board  underlines  the  importance  of providing  information  about  the  reasons  for
granting or revoking certification. For this reason, the Board recommends the BE SA to add in section
7.8 of its accreditation requirements, the reference to the duty for the certification body to inform
about  granting  or  revoking  the  requested  certification  including  clarification in  which  form such
information should be provided.

Pursuant to section 7.11 of the Annex to the Guidelines, the certification body should be required to
inform the competent SA and the NAB about measures taken regarding the continuation, restrictions,
suspensions and withdrawal of the certification. The Board notes that under section 7.11, paragraph
3,  the  reference  to  notification  of  the  NAB  (in  this  case  BELAC)  is  missing.  Therefore, the  Board
recommends to amend this requirement by including such reference.

2.2.6 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Under  section  8,  there  paragraph  of  the  Guidelines  (section  8)  “In  particular,  the  accredited
certification body must make public permanently and continuously which certifications were carried
out on which basis (or certification mechanisms or schemes), how long certifications are valid under
which  framework  and  conditions  (recital  100)”.  The  Board  recommends  the  BE  SA  to  add  a
recommendation to add this paragraph for consistency with the Guidelines.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

25.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the BE SA:

1) modify its requirements to include the notification of the CSAs so to bring section 7.1(2)

of the latter in line with the section 7.1(2) of the Guidelines.

2) clarify that the submission of the draft approval aims at increasing tranparency.

Adopted

3) add a reference to the duty for the certification body to inform about granting or revoking

the requested certification including clarification in which form such information.

4)

5)

include in  which  form  the  provision  of  information  about  granting  or  revoking
certification will be provided.

include a referece to informing BELAC when it comes to about measures taken regarding
the continuation, restrictions, suspensions and withdrawal of the certification (section
7.11 paragraph.3).

26.

Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the BE SA:

1)

add the following wording “ In particular, the accredited certification body must make
public permanently and continuously which certifications were carried out on which basis
(or certification mechanisms or schemes), how long certifications are valid under which
framework  and  conditions  (recital  100)” to  bring  the  requirements  in  line  with  the
Guidelines.

4 FINAL REMARKS

27.

28.

This opinion is addressed to the Belgian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the BE SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

29.

The BE SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

