 

Miguel de Serpa Soares 

7 October 2020 

Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and United Nations Legal Counsel 

United Nations 

N.Y. 10017 

United States 

Dear Mr. de Serpa Soares, 

Ref: OUT2020-0109 

Thank you for the constructive discussion in Brussels last February and your follow-up letters of 26 
February 2020 and of 14 May 2020, by which you also provided comments on the “Guidelines 2/2020” 
referred to as “Guidelines on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of 
personal  data  between EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies”.  These  comments  provide 
valuable input for the further work of the European Data Protection Board on these guidelines.  

Let  me  note  that  in  the  "Non-Paper  (point  (3))"  accompanying  your  letter  of  26  February  2020, 
reference is made to the explanations given by the European Commission in its letter dating from 3 
July  2018  on  the  privileges  and  immunities  of  international  organisations.  In  its  guidance1,  the 
European Data Protection Board has also clarified that the application of the GDPR is without prejudice 
to the provisions of international law, such as the ones governing the privileges and immunities of 
international  organisations.  At  the  same  time,  this  guidance  highlights  that  entities  subject  to  the 
GDPR that exchange personal data with international organisations have to comply with the GDPR, 
including its rules on international transfers (Chapter V of the GDPR). 

As a preliminary observation, the  European Data Protection Board notes that, indeed, pursuant to 
Article 45 GDPR, transfers from the EEA to a third country or an international organisation can take 
place  where  the  third  country  or  the  international  organisation  ensures  a  level  of  protection 
considered  adequate  by  the  European  Commission.  Such  a  finding  is  based  on  a  comprehensive 
assessment by the European Commission which takes into account a number of elements, e.g. the 
legal data protection framework of such a third country or international organisation as a whole, in 
order to determine if that third country or international organisation ensures a level of protection 
essentially equivalent to that ensured within the European Union. Whilst this assessment focuses on 
different elements, such as the substantive privacy rules and individual rights provided by the legal 
system of the third country or international organisation, as well as their effective implementation, 
the main purpose of this assessment is, inter alia, to verify that effective independent data protection 
supervision and enforceable rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are provided by the 

                                                           
1 Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3), p.23. 

 

         1 

 

third  country  or  international  organisation2,  it  does  not  mean  that,  in  practice,  those  have  to  be 
provided in the same way as they are in under the GDPR.  

The European Data Protection Board has already issued guidance on several other instruments for 
international  transfers,  which  is  also  relevant  for  data  transfers  to  international  organisations.  For 
example, transfers to United Nations System Organisations from EU public bodies subject to the GDPR 
can be performed relying in particular on a legally binding and enforceable instrument under Article 
46 (2) (a) or on administrative arrangements under Article 46 (3) (b) of the GDPR. On this issue, the 
EDPB has, as you know, issued draft Guidelines3, which can provide useful clarifications also having 
regard  to  transfers  to  United  Nations  organisations.  These  guidelines,  for  instance,  recognise  that 
certain safeguards, e.g. ensuring judicial redress or independent oversight through external bodies, 
may  not  be  available  for  international  organisations  and  provide  examples  of  possible  alternative 
mechanisms  that  could  be  developed.4  The  guidelines  will  now  be  finalised  following  the  public 
consultation.  

Useful  clarifications  on  international  transfers  have  also  been  provided  by  the  European  Data 
Protection Board in the Guidelines on derogations pursuant to Article 49 of the GDPR5, which clarify 
e.g. when personal data may be transferred in specific situations if necessary for important reasons of 
public interest.6 This may, for instance, be the case if there is an international agreement to which the 
EU or its Member States are a party that recognises a certain objective and provides for international 
cooperation to foster that objective. 

With respect to exchanges of data with service providers in the EU, to which your letter specifically 
refers, I would also like to point to the clarifications already provided by the European Data Protection 
Board. In particular, the guidelines on the territorial scope of the GDPR clarify the specific (and limited) 
obligations of service providers established in the EU that carry out processing on behalf of an entity 
that is not subject to the GDPR.7  

At the same time, I understand that certain questions remain. I would, therefore, like to inform you 
that  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  will  explore  ways  to  further  clarify  how  the  rules  on 
international  transfers  under  the  GDPR  apply  when  personal  data  is  transferred  to  international 
organisations. Please note that this may require some time due to the judgment of the Court of Justice 
of the European Union in case C-311/18 (Schrems II) issued on 16 July 2020. As you have probably 

                                                           
2 See recital 104 GDPR. 
3 Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data 
between EEA and non-EEA public authorities and bodies. 
4 Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data 
between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies  -  version  for  public  consultation,  p.  11  (para  47) 
referring to judicial redress and p.12 (para 57) referring to oversight mechanism. 
5 Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, as adopted by the European Data 
Protection Board on 25 May 2018. 
6 Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49, p. 10 et. seq. 
7 Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3), p.12 et seq.  

 

         2 

 

noted, the European Data Protection Board has started working on the follow-up of this judgment8, 
relevant for any transfer question, and will continue to do so in the upcoming months. 

The Board is ready to engage with international organisations in this context. 

The regular workshops with international organisations organised by the European Data Protection 
Supervisor, which next edition is scheduled for 8-9 October 2020, seem to be the appropriate venue 
to continue the discussions. United Nations representatives already took part to these workshops in 
the past and have already been invited to this edition. 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  remains  available  to  further  engage  with  the  United  Nations 
System Organisations on our shared mission of protecting international human rights, including the 
right to privacy.  

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

                                                           
8 See in particular FAQs on the judgment of the CJEU in case C-311/18, adopted on 23 July 2020. 

 

         3 

