1/14

 File No.: EXP202105770

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure no.: EXP202105770

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Dated December 13, 2021, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection a written complaint filed by GUARDIA
CIVIL - POSITION ***LOCALIDAD.1 (hereinafter, the claimant), through which
files complaint against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). the minutes
complaint, dated November 30, 2021, shows that the defendant
It has an installation of a video surveillance system installed in
***ADDRESS.1, with the cameras directed towards the public thoroughfare and not being
duly signposted the mandatory informative posters of the video-monitored area.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

The documents provided by the claimant are the following:

-

Report made by the FFCCSE in which it is shown that these
same non-compliances were previously detected, denounced
before this Agency, and that they have a written document from the AEPD in which
communicated to the Civil Guard that the defendant had been informed of his
obligations regarding the protection of personal data without the now
reported has proceeded to correct said breaches.

- Photo report

SECOND: Likewise, it should be stated that on September 30, 2020,
received in this Agency complaint filed by CIVIL GUARD - POSITION
*** LOCATION.1 for these same facts that gave rise to the processing of the
reference file E/08321/2020. Within the framework of said file, it was sent
written to the defendant, duly notified on October 16, 2020, in the
that he was informed of the reception of the complaint at the Agency for some facts that
would violate the data protection regulations, with regard to the treatment of
images and where you could find out about the requirements to carry out
carry out personal data processing through this type of device.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: «The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the reported video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of treatment,
provides that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of data must be restricted
excessive or proceed to suppress them.

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

Article 13, sections 1 and 2, of the RGPD, establishes the information that must be provided
to the interested party at the time of collecting their data. In the case of treatments
of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in the
video-monitored areas, an informative badge located in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the
that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

The content and design of the informative label must comply with the provisions of the
Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, referred to
specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the processing of
images in public places can only be made -if applicable and prior to the
compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting the
conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if the
cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, even if the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimum and
essential of the public road, which is inevitably captured.

For this exception on the protection of private spaces to be applicable,
There must be an alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the responsible
of the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the installation,
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is the minimum possible.
In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces,
adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

In relation to the above, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“normative”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both
available in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool It facilitates (in the “Guides and tools” section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

v

The complaint is based on the presumed illegality of the installation by the defendant of
a video surveillance system, made up of 2 cameras located on the fence of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

entrance and on the roof of the building located at ***ADDRESS.1, which could capture
images of public areas disproportionately.

In addition, the claimant warns that the reviewed property does not have a sign in the
that the presence of the cameras and the identity of the person responsible be reported
of the processing of the data, so that the interested persons can exercise the
rights provided for in arts. 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence
indicated in the “Facts” section, first point, of this agreement.

Thus, the evidence available at this stage of the procedure
sanctioning party, without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the file,
constitute solid indications that the defendant, through the cameras of
video surveillance installed in ***ADDRESS.1, captures images of transit areas
public. Likewise, it is evident that there is no poster with all the information that,
mandatory, must appear in it.

The conduct of the defendant violates a series of obligations imposed by the
GDPR.

In particular, those established in articles 5.1 c) and 13 of the aforementioned regulation.

Failure to comply with the obligation imposed by article 13 of the RGPD means that
such conduct could constitute an infraction typified in article 83.5 b) of the
RGPD, precept that establishes: "Infringements of the following provisions are
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20,000,000
EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, choosing
for the largest amount:

a)

(…)

a) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

(…)

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as
very serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The limitation period for offenses
very serious cases provided for in Organic Law 3/2018 is three years.

For its part, the violation of the provisions of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, gives rise to
understand that such conduct could constitute an infraction typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a precept that establishes: “Infringements of the
following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to 4% of the total annual global turnover for the year
previous financial statement, opting for the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

(…)”

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679;

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

SAW

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to sanction with a warning -article 58.2 b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD -
article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

7th

According to the exposed facts, without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the
procedure, it is considered that it corresponds to charge the defendant for the violation
of the provisions of articles 5.1 c) and 13 of the RGPD, both typified in article
83 of the RGPD. The sanction that should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. So,
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding
to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD:

viii

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined:

-Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to
reorientation of it towards its particular area.

-certify having proceeded to the placement of the informative device in the areas
video surveillance or to complete the information offered therein (you must identify yourself,
at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility
to exercise the rights provided for in said precepts), locating this device in
sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

-certifies that the information to which it refers is kept available to those affected
the aforementioned GDPR.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, By the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1 and 13 of the RGPD, both typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

SECOND: APPOINT B.B.B. as instructor, and secretary, if applicable, C.C.C.
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
complaint filed by the claimant and his documentation, as well as the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP, hereinafter), the sanction that could correspond would be €300
(THREE HUNDRED EUROS) for each of the two infractions indicated, which
amounts to a total amount of €600 (SIX HUNDRED EUROS), without prejudice to what may result
of instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infraction, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to A.A.A., granting it a term of
hearing of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present the
tests you deem appropriate. In your statement of arguments, you must provide your
NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations, this initial agreement may be
considered resolution proposal, according to what is established in article 64.2.f) of the
LPACAP.

The sanctioning procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start-up agreement or, if applicable, the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to €120 (ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
EUROS). With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 480
€ (FOUR HUNDRED AND EIGHTY EUROS), resolving the procedure with the
imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the penalty would be established at €480 (FOUR HUNDRED AND EIGHTY EUROS) and
its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. If it were appropriate to apply both reductions,
the amount of the penalty would be established at €360 (THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
EUROS).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account no.
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the
reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is accepted. Also, you must
send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

948-161220

>>

SECOND: On March 30, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 360 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

14/14

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202105770, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-240122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

