 
ARTICLE 29  DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17/EN 

WP 248 rev.01 
 

 

 

Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether 
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 

 

Adopted on 4 April 2017 

As last Revised and Adopted on 4 October 2017 

 

This Working  Party  was  set  up  under  Article  29  of  Directive  95/46/EC.  It  is  an  independent  European  advisory  body  on  data 
protection and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 15 of Directive 2002/58/EC. 

The  secretariat  is  provided  by  Directorate  C  (Fundamental  Rights  and  Union  Citizenship)  of  the  European  Commission, 
Directorate General Justice, B-1049 Brussels, Belgium, Office No MO-59 03/075. 

Website: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/index_en.htm 

THE  WORKING  PARTY  ON  THE  PROTECTION  OF  INDIVIDUALS  WITH  REGARD  TO  THE 
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA 

 

set up by Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995,  

 

having regard to Articles 29 and 30 thereof,  

 

having regard to its Rules of Procedure,  

 

HAS ADOPTED THE PRESENT GUIDELINES: 

 

 

 

2 

 
Table of content 

I. 

INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................................................ 4 

II. 

SCOPE OF THE GUIDELINES ...................................................................................................................... 4 

III.  DPIA: THE REGULATION EXPLAINED ......................................................................................................... 6 

A. 

WHAT DOES A DPIA ADDRESS? A SINGLE PROCESSING OPERATION OR A SET OF SIMILAR PROCESSING OPERATIONS. ....... 7 

WHICH PROCESSING OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO A DPIA? APART FROM EXCEPTIONS, WHERE THEY ARE “LIKELY TO 

B. 
RESULT IN A HIGH RISK”. ............................................................................................................................................ 8 

a)  When is a DPIA mandatory? When processing is “likely to result in a high risk”. ................................. 8 

b)  When isn’t a DPIA required? When the processing is not "likely to result in a high risk", or a similar 
DPIA exists, or it has been authorized prior to May 2018, or it has a legal basis, or it is in the list of 
processing operations for which a DPIA is not required. .............................................................................. 12 

C. 

D. 

WHAT ABOUT ALREADY EXISTING PROCESSING OPERATIONS? DPIAS ARE REQUIRED IN SOME CIRCUMSTANCES. .......... 13 

HOW TO CARRY OUT A DPIA? ..................................................................................................................... 14 

a)  At what moment should a DPIA be carried out? Prior to the processing. ........................................... 14 

b)  Who is obliged to carry out the DPIA? The controller, with the DPO and processors. ......................... 14 

c)  What is the methodology to carry out a DPIA? Different methodologies but common criteria. ......... 15 

d) 
Is there an obligation to publish the DPIA? No, but publishing a summary could foster trust, and the 
full DPIA must be communicated to the supervisory authority in case of prior consultation or if requested 
by the DPA. ................................................................................................................................................... 18 

E. 

WHEN SHALL THE SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY BE CONSULTED? WHEN THE RESIDUAL RISKS ARE HIGH........................... 18 

IV.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................. 19 

ANNEX 1 – EXAMPLES OF EXISTING EU DPIA FRAMEWORKS .......................................................................... 21 

ANNEX 2 – CRITERIA FOR AN ACCEPTABLE DPIA............................................................................................. 22 

 

 

3 

I. 

Introduction 

Regulation 2016/6791 (GDPR) will apply from 25 May 2018. Article 35 of the GDPR introduces the 
concept of a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA2), as does Directive 2016/6803. 

A DPIA is a process designed to describe the processing, assess its necessity and proportionality and 
help manage the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons resulting from the processing of 
personal data4 by assessing them and determining the measures to address them. DPIAs are important 
tools for accountability, as they help controllers not only to comply with requirements of the GDPR, 
but  also  to  demonstrate  that  appropriate  measures  have  been  taken  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
Regulation  (see  also  article  24)5.  In  other  words,  a  DPIA  is  a  process  for  building  and 
demonstrating compliance. 

Under  the  GDPR,  non-compliance  with  DPIA  requirements  can  lead  to  fines  imposed  by  the 
competent supervisory authority. Failure to carry out a DPIA when the processing is subject to a DPIA 
(Article 35(1) and (3)-(4)), carrying out a DPIA in an incorrect way (Article 35(2) and (7) to (9)), or 
failing to consult the competent supervisory authority where required (Article 36(3)(e)), can result in 
an  administrative  fine  of  up  to  10M€,  or  in  the  case  of  an  undertaking,  up  to  2  %  of  the  total 
worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher. 

Scope of the Guidelines  

II. 
                                                             
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). 
2 The term “Privacy Impact Assessment” (PIA) is often used in other contexts to refer to the same concept. 
3 Article 27 of the Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on 
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the 
purposes  of  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or  prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the  execution  of 
criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, also states that a privacy impact assessment is needed 
for “the processing is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. 
4 The GDPR does not formally define the concept of a DPIA as such, but  

- 

its minimal content is specified by Article 35(7) as follows: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

“(a) a systematic description  of the envisaged processing operations and the purposes of the 
processing, including, where applicable, the legitimate interest pursued by the controller; 
(b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations in relation 
to the purposes; 
(c)  an  assessment  of  the  risks  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1; and 
(d) the measures envisaged to address the risks, including safeguards, security measures and 
mechanisms to ensure the protection of personal data and to demonstrate compliance with this 
Regulation  taking  into  account  the  rights  and  legitimate  interests  of  data  subjects  and  other 
persons concerned”; 

- 

its  meaning  and  role  is  clarified  by  recital  84  as  follows:  “In  order  to  enhance  compliance  with  this 
Regulation where processing operations are likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of 
natural persons, the controller should be responsible for the carrying-out of a data protection impact 
assessment to evaluate, in particular, the origin, nature, particularity and severity of that risk”. 

5  See  also  recital  84:  “The  outcome  of  the  assessment  should  be  taken  into  account  when  determining  the 
appropriate measures to be taken in order to demonstrate that the processing of personal data complies with this 
Regulation”. 

4 

 

These Guidelines take account of: 

- 
- 
- 
- 

the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party (WP29) Statement 14/EN WP 2186; 
the WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officer 16/EN WP 2437; 
the WP29 Opinion on Purpose limitation 13/EN WP 2038; 
international standards9. 

In line with the risk-based approach embodied by the GDPR, carrying out a DPIA is not mandatory for 
every processing operation. A DPIA is only required when the processing is “likely to result in a high 
risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons”  (Article  35(1)).  In  order  to  ensure  a  consistent 
interpretation  of  the  circumstances  in  which  a  DPIA  is  mandatory  (Article  35(3)),  the  present 
guidelines  firstly  aim  to  clarify  this  notion  and  provide  criteria  for  the  lists  to  be  adopted  by  Data 
Protection Authorities (DPAs) under Article 35(4).  

According  to  Article  70(1)(e),  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  will  be  able  to  issue 
guidelines, recommendations and best practices in order to encourage a consistent application of the 
GDPR. The purpose of this document is to anticipate such future work of the EDPB and therefore to 
clarify the relevant provisions of the GDPR in order to help controllers to comply with the law and to 
provide legal certainty for controllers who are required to carry out a DPIA. 

These Guidelines also seek to promote the development of: 

- 

- 
- 
- 

- 

a  common  European  Union  list  of  processing  operations  for  which  a  DPIA  is  mandatory 
(Article 35(4)); 
a common EU list of processing operations for which a DPIA is not necessary (Article 35(5)); 
common criteria on the methodology for carrying out a DPIA (Article 35(5)); 
common  criteria  for  specifying  when  the  supervisory  authority  shall  be  consulted 
(Article 36(1)); 
recommendations, where possible, building on the experience gained in EU Member States. 

 

 

                                                             
6  WP29  Statement  14/EN  WP  218  on  the  role  of  a  risk-based  approach  to  data  protection  legal  frameworks 
adopted on 30 May 2014. 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2014/wp218_en.pdf?wb48617274=72C54532 
7 WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officer 16/EN WP 243 Adopted on 13 December 2016. 
http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/newsroom/image/document/2016-
51/wp243_en_40855.pdf?wb48617274=CD63BD9A 
8 WP29 Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation 13/EN WP 203Adopted on 2 April 2013. 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2013/wp203_en.pdf?wb48617274=39E0E409 
9  e.g.  ISO  31000:2009,  Risk  management —  Principles  and  guidelines,  International  Organization  for 
Standardization (ISO) ; ISO/IEC 29134 (project), Information technology – Security techniques – Privacy impact 
assessment – Guidelines, International Organization for Standardization (ISO). 

5 

 

III.  DPIA: the Regulation explained 

The  GDPR  requires  controllers  to  implement  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  and  be  able  to 
demonstrate compliance  with  the  GDPR,  taking  into account among  others  the “the  risks  of  varying 
likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons” (article 24 (1)). The obligation 
for  controllers  to  conduct  a  DPIA  in  certain  circumstances  should  be  understood  against  the 
background of their general obligation to appropriately manage risks10 presented by the processing of 
personal data.  

A  “risk”  is  a  scenario  describing  an  event  and  its  consequences,  estimated  in  terms  of  severity  and 
likelihood.  “Risk  management”,  on  the  other  hand,  can  be  defined  as  the  coordinated  activities  to 
direct and control an organization with regard to risk.  

Article 35 refers to a likely high risk “to the rights and freedoms of individuals”. As indicated in the 
Article  29  Data  Protection  Working  Party  Statement  on  the  role  of  a  risk-based  approach  in  data 
protection  legal  frameworks,  the  reference  to  “the  rights  and  freedoms”  of  data  subjects  primarily 
concerns the rights to data protection and privacy but may also involve other fundamental rights such 
as freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of movement, prohibition of discrimination, right 
to liberty, conscience and religion.  

In line with the risk-based approach embodied by the GDPR, carrying out a DPIA is not mandatory for 
every processing operation. Instead, a DPIA is only required where a type of processing is “likely to 
result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons” (Article 35(1)). The mere fact that 
the  conditions  triggering  the  obligation  to  carry  out  DPIA  have  not  been  met  does  not,  however, 
diminish controllers’ general obligation to implement measures  to appropriately manage risks for the 
rights and freedoms of data subjects. In practice, this means that controllers must continuously assess 
the risks created by their processing activities in order to identify when a type of processing is “likely 
to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. 

 

 

                                                             
10 It has to be stressed that in order to manage the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the risks 
have to identified, analyzed, estimated, evaluated, treated (e.g. mitigated...), and reviewed regularly. Controllers 
cannot escape their responsibility by covering risks under insurance policies. 

 

6 

The following figure illustrates the basic principles related to the DPIA in the GDPR: 

 

What  does  a  DPIA  address?  A  single  processing  operation  or  a  set  of  similar 

A. 
processing operations. 

A  DPIA  may  concern  a  single  data  processing  operation.  However,  Article  35(1)  states  that  “a 
single assessment may address a set of similar processing operations that present similar high risks”. 
Recital 92 adds that “there are circumstances under which it may be reasonable and economical for 
the  subject  of  a  data  protection  impact  assessment  to  be  broader  than  a  single project, for  example 
where public authorities or bodies intend to establish a common application or processing platform or 
where several controllers plan to introduce a common application or processing environment across 
an industry sector or segment or for a widely used horizontal activity”. 

A single DPIA could be used to assess multiple processing operations that are similar in terms of 
nature,  scope,  context,  purpose,  and  risks.  Indeed,  DPIAs  aim  at  systematically  studying  new 
situations that could lead to high risks on the rights and freedoms of natural persons, and there is no 
need to carry out a DPIA in cases (i.e. processing operations performed in a specific context and for a 
specific purpose) that have already been studied. This might be the case where similar technology is 
used  to  collect  the  same  sort  of  data  for  the  same  purposes.  For  example,  a  group  of  municipal 
authorities that are each setting up a similar CCTV system could carry out a single DPIA covering the 
processing  by  these  separate  controllers,  or  a  railway  operator  (single  controller)  could  cover  video 
surveillance in all its train stations with one DPIA. This may also be applicable to similar processing 
operations implemented by various data controllers. In those cases, a reference DPIA should be shared 
or made publicly accessible, measures described in the DPIA must be implemented, and a justification 
for conducting a single DPIA has to be provided. 

When  the  processing  operation  involves  joint  controllers,  they  need  to  define  their  respective 
obligations precisely. Their DPIA should set out which party is responsible for the various measures 

7 

 

designed to treat risks and to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. Each data controller 
should  express  his  needs  and  share  useful  information  without  either  compromising  secrets  (e.g.: 
protection  of  trade  secrets,  intellectual  property,  confidential  business  information)  or  disclosing 
vulnerabilities. 

A DPIA can also be useful for assessing the data protection impact of a technology product, for 
example a piece of hardware or software, where this is likely to be used by different data controllers to 
carry out different processing operations. Of course, the data controller deploying the product remains 
obliged to carry out its own DPIA with regard to the specific implementation, but this can be informed 
by  a  DPIA  prepared  by  the  product  provider,  if  appropriate.  An  example  could  be  the  relationship 
between  manufacturers  of  smart  meters  and  utility  companies.  Each  product  provider  or  processor 
should share useful information without neither compromising secrets nor leading to security risks by 
disclosing vulnerabilities. 

Which  processing  operations  are  subject  to  a  DPIA?  Apart  from  exceptions,  where 

B. 
they are “likely to result in a high risk”. 

This section describes when a DPIA is mandatory, and when it is not necessary to carry out a DPIA. 

Unless the processing operation meets an exception (III.B.a), a DPIA has to be carried out where 
a processing operation is “likely to result in a high risk” (III.B.b). 

a)  When is a DPIA mandatory? When processing is “likely to result in a high risk”. 

The GDPR does not require a DPIA to be carried out for every processing operation which may result 
in risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory 
where  processing  is  “likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons” 
(Article  35(1),  illustrated  by  Article  35(3)  and  complemented  by  Article  35(4)).  It  is  particularly 
relevant when a new data processing technology is being introduced11. 

In  cases  where  it  is  not  clear  whether  a  DPIA  is  required,  the  WP29  recommends  that  a  DPIA  is 
carried out nonetheless as a DPIA is a useful tool to help controllers comply with data protection law. 

Even though a DPIA could be required in other circumstances, Article 35(3) provides some examples 
when a processing operation is “likely to result in high risks”: 

- 

- 

- 

“(a)  a  systematic  and  extensive  evaluation  of  personal  aspects  relating  to  natural  persons 
which  is  based  on  automated  processing,  including  profiling,  and  on  which  decisions  are 
based that produce legal effects concerning the natural person or similarly significantly affect 
the natural person12; 
(b) processing on a large scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9(1), or of 
personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 1013; or 
(c) a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale”. 

                                                             
11 See recitals 89, 91 and Article 35(1) and (3) for further examples. 
12  See  recital  71:  “in  particular  analysing  or  predicting  aspects  concerning  performance  at  work,  economic 
situation, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behaviour, location or movements, in order to 
create or use personal profiles”. 
13  See  recital  75:  “where  personal  data are  processed  which  reveal  racial  or  ethnic  origin,  political  opinions, 
religion or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, data concerning 
health or data concerning sex life or criminal convictions and offences or related security measures”. 

8 

 

As  the  words  “in  particular”  in  the  introductory  sentence  of  Article  35(3)  GDPR  indicate,  this  is 
meant as a non-exhaustive list. There may be “high risk” processing operations that are not captured 
by  this  list,  but  yet  pose  similarly  high  risks.  Those  processing  operations  should  also  be  subject  to 
DPIAs.  For  this  reason,  the  criteria  developed  below  sometimes  go  beyond  a  simple  explanation  of 
what should be understood by the three examples given in Article 35(3) GDPR. 

In  order  to  provide  a  more  concrete  set  of  processing  operations  that  require  a  DPIA  due  to  their 
inherent high risk, taking into account the particular elements of Articles 35(1) and 35(3)(a) to (c), the 
list to be adopted at the national level under article 35(4) and recitals 71, 75 and 91, and other GDPR 
references to “likely to result in a high risk” processing operations14, the following nine criteria should 
be considered. 

1.  Evaluation or scoring, including profiling and predicting, especially from “aspects concerning 
the  data  subject's  performance  at  work,  economic  situation,  health,  personal  preferences  or 
interests,  reliability  or  behavior,  location  or  movements”  (recitals  71  and  91).  Examples  of 
this  could  include  a  financial  institution  that  screens  its  customers  against  a  credit  reference 
database  or  against  an  anti-money  laundering  and  counter-terrorist  financing  (AML/CTF)  or 
fraud  database,  or  a  biotechnology  company  offering  genetic  tests  directly  to  consumers  in 
order  to  assess  and  predict  the  disease/health  risks,  or  a  company  building  behavioural  or 
marketing profiles based on usage or navigation on its website. 

2.  Automated-decision  making  with  legal  or  similar  significant  effect:  processing  that  aims  at 
taking  decisions  on  data  subjects producing  “legal  effects  concerning the  natural  person”  or 
which “similarly significantly affects the natural person” (Article 35(3)(a)). For example, the 
processing  may  lead  to  the  exclusion  or  discrimination  against  individuals.  Processing  with 
little or no effect on individuals does not match this specific criterion. Further explanations on 
these notions will be provided in the upcoming WP29 Guidelines on Profiling. 

3.  Systematic monitoring: processing used to observe, monitor or control data subjects, including 
data  collected  through  networks  or  “a  systematic  monitoring  of  a  publicly  accessible  area” 
(Article  35(3)(c))15.  This  type  of  monitoring  is  a  criterion  because  the  personal  data  may  be 
collected  in  circumstances  where  data  subjects  may  not  be  aware  of  who  is  collecting  their 
data  and  how  they  will  be  used.  Additionally,  it  may  be  impossible  for  individuals  to  avoid 
being subject to such processing in public (or publicly accessible) space(s). 

4.  Sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature: this includes special categories of personal 
data as defined in Article 9 (for example information about individuals’ political opinions), as 
well as personal data relating to criminal convictions or offences as defined in Article 10. An 
example  would  be  a  general  hospital  keeping  patients’  medical  records  or  a  private 
investigator  keeping  offenders’  details.  Beyond  these  provisions  of  the  GDPR,  some 
categories of data can be considered as increasing the possible risk to the rights and freedoms 

                                                             
14 See e.g. recitals 75, 76, 92, 116. 
15 The WP29 interprets “systematic” as meaning one or more of the following (see the WP29 Guidelines on Data 
Protection Officer 16/EN WP 243):  

- 
- 
- 
- 

occurring according to a system; 
pre-arranged, organised or methodical; 
taking place as part of a general plan for data collection; 
carried out as part of a strategy. 

The  WP29  interprets  “publicly  accessible  area”  as  being  any  place  open  to  any  member  of  the  public,  for 
example a piazza, a shopping centre, a street, a market place, a train station or a public library. 

9 

 

of  individuals.  These  personal  data  are  considered  as  sensitive  (as  this  term  is  commonly 
understood)  because  they  are  linked  to  household  and  private  activities  (such  as  electronic 
communications  whose  confidentiality  should  be  protected),  or  because  they  impact  the 
exercise of a fundamental right (such as location data whose collection questions the freedom 
of movement) or because their violation clearly involves serious impacts in the data subject’s 
daily life (such as financial data that might be used for payment fraud). In this regard, whether 
the data has already been made publicly available by the data subject or by third parties may 
be relevant. The fact that personal data is publicly available may be considered as a factor in 
the assessment if the data was expected to be further used for certain purposes. This criterion 
may  also  include  data  such  as  personal  documents,  emails,  diaries,  notes  from  e-readers 
equipped  with  note-taking  features,  and  very  personal  information  contained  in  life-logging 
applications. 

5.  Data  processed  on  a  large  scale:  the  GDPR  does  not  define  what  constitutes  large-scale, 
though  recital  91  provides  some  guidance.  In  any  event,  the  WP29  recommends  that  the 
following  factors,  in  particular,  be  considered  when  determining  whether  the  processing  is 
carried out on a large scale16:  

a. 

b. 
c. 
d. 

the number of data subjects concerned, either as a specific number or as a proportion 
of the relevant population; 
the volume of data and/or the range of different data items being processed; 
the duration, or permanence, of the data processing activity; 
the geographical extent of the processing activity. 

6.  Matching  or  combining  datasets,  for  example  originating  from  two  or  more  data  processing 
operations performed for different purposes and/or by different data controllers in a way that 
would exceed the reasonable expectations of the data subject17. 

7.  Data concerning vulnerable data subjects (recital 75): the processing of this type of data  is a 
criterion  because  of  the  increased  power  imbalance  between  the  data  subjects  and  the  data 
controller,  meaning  the  individuals  may  be  unable  to  easily  consent  to,  or  oppose,  the 
processing of their data, or exercise their rights. Vulnerable data subjects may include children 
(they  can  be  considered  as  not  able  to  knowingly  and  thoughtfully  oppose  or  consent  to  the 
processing  of  their  data),  employees  ,  more  vulnerable  segments  of  the  population  requiring 
special protection (mentally ill persons, asylum seekers, or the elderly, patients, etc.), and in 
any case where an imbalance in the relationship between the position of the data subject and 
the controller can be identified. 

8.  Innovative use or applying new technological or organisational solutions, like combining use 
of  finger  print  and  face  recognition  for  improved  physical  access  control,  etc.  The  GDPR 
makes it clear (Article 35(1) and recitals 89 and 91) that the use of a new technology, defined 
in  “accordance  with  the  achieved  state  of  technological  knowledge”  (recital  91),  can  trigger 
the need to carry out a DPIA. This is because the use of such technology can involve novel 
forms  of  data  collection  and  usage,  possibly  with  a  high  risk  to  individuals’  rights  and 
freedoms.  Indeed,  the  personal  and  social  consequences  of  the  deployment  of  a  new 
technology may be unknown. A DPIA will help the data controller to understand and to treat 
such  risks.  For  example,  certain  “Internet  of  Things”  applications  could  have  a  significant 
impact on individuals’ daily lives and privacy; and therefore require a DPIA. 

                                                             
16 See the WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officer 16/EN WP 243. 
17 See explanation in the WP29 Opinion on Purpose limitation 13/EN WP 203, p.24. 

10 

 

9.  When  the  processing  in  itself  “prevents  data  subjects  from  exercising  a  right  or  using  a 
service  or  a  contract”  (Article  22  and  recital  91).  This  includes  processing  operations  that 
aims  at  allowing,  modifying  or  refusing  data  subjects’  access  to  a  service  or  entry  into  a 
contract. An example of this is where a bank screens its customers against a credit reference 
database in order to decide whether to offer them a loan. 

In  most  cases,  a  data  controller  can  consider  that  a  processing  meeting  two  criteria  would  require  a 
DPIA  to  be  carried  out.  In  general,  the  WP29  considers  that  the  more  criteria  are  met  by  the 
processing, the more likely it is to present a high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, and 
therefore to require a DPIA, regardless of the measures which the controller envisages to adopt.  

However,  in  some  cases,  a  data  controller  can  consider  that  a  processing  meeting  only  one  of 
these criteria requires a DPIA. 

 
The  following  examples  illustrate  how  the  criteria  should  be  used  to  assess  whether  a  particular 
processing operation requires a DPIA:  

Examples of processing  

Possible Relevant criteria 

DPIA 

likely to be 
required?  

A hospital processing its patients’ genetic and 
health data (hospital information system). 

The use of a camera system to monitor driving 
behavior on highways. The controller envisages to 
use an intelligent video analysis system to single 
out cars and automatically recognize license plates. 
A company systematically monitoring its 
employees’ activities, including the monitoring of 
the employees’ work station, internet activity, etc. 

The gathering of public social media data for 
generating profiles. 

An institution creating a national level credit rating 
or fraud database. 

Storage for archiving purpose of pseudonymised 
personal sensitive data concerning vulnerable data 
subjects of research projects or clinical trials 

 

-  Sensitive data or data of a highly personal 

nature. 

-  Data concerning vulnerable data subjects. 
-  Data processed on a large-scale. 

-  Systematic monitoring. 
- 

Innovative  use  or  applying  technological 
or organisational solutions. 

-  Systematic monitoring. 
-  Data concerning vulnerable data subjects. 

-  Evaluation or scoring. 
-  Data processed on a large scale. 
-  Matching or combining of datasets. 
-  Sensitive data or data of a highly personal 

Yes 

nature: 

-  Evaluation or scoring. 
-  Automated  decision  making  with  legal  or 

similar significant effect. 

-  Prevents  data  subject  from  exercising  a 

right or using a service or a contract. 

-  Sensitive data or data of a highly personal 

nature: 

-  Sensitive data. 
-  Data concerning vulnerable data subjects. 
-  Prevents  data  subjects  from  exercising  a 

right or using a service or a contract. 

11 

Examples of processing  

Possible Relevant criteria 

DPIA 

likely to be 
required?  

A processing of “personal data from patients or 
clients by an individual physician, other health care 
professional or lawyer” (Recital 91). 
An online magazine using a mailing list to send a 
generic daily digest to its subscribers. 

An e-commerce website displaying adverts for 
vintage car parts involving limited profiling based 
on items viewed or purchased on its own website. 

-  Sensitive data or data of a highly personal 

nature. 

-  Data concerning vulnerable data subjects. 

-  Data processed on a large scale. 

No 

-  Evaluation or scoring. 

 
Conversely,  a  processing  operation  may  correspond  to  the  above  mentioned  cases  and  still  be 
considered  by  the  controller  not  to  be  “likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk”.  In  such  cases  the 
controller  should  justify  and  document  the  reasons  for  not  carrying  out  a  DPIA,  and 
include/record the views of the data protection officer. 

In  addition,  as  part  of  the accountability  principle,  every  data  controller  “shall  maintain  a  record  of 
processing  activities  under  its  responsibility”  including  inter  alia  the  purposes  of  processing,  a 
description  of  the  categories  of  data  and  recipients  of  the  data  and  “where  possible,  a  general 
description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1)” (Article 
30(1)) and must assess whether a high risk is likely, even if they ultimately decide not to carry out a 
DPIA. 

Note:  supervisory  authorities  are  required  to  establish,  make  public  and  communicate  a  list  of  the 
processing  operations  that  require  a  DPIA  to  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  (Article 
35(4))18. The criteria set out above can help supervisory authorities to constitute such a list, with more 
specific  content  added  in  time  if  appropriate.  For  example,  the  processing  of  any  type  of  biometric 
data or that of children could also be considered as relevant for the development of a list pursuant to 
article 35(4). 

b)  When  isn’t  a  DPIA  required?  When  the  processing  is  not  "likely  to  result  in  a  high 
risk", or a similar DPIA exists, or it has been authorized prior to May 2018, or it has a 
legal  basis,  or  it  is  in  the  list  of  processing  operations  for  which  a  DPIA  is  not 
required. 

WP29 considers that a DPIA is not required in the following cases:  

-  where  the  processing  is  not  "likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of 

natural persons" (Article 35(1)); 

-  when  the  nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes  of  the  processing  are  very  similar  to  the 
processing  for  which  DPIA  have  been  carried  out.  In  such  cases,  results  of  DPIA  for 
similar processing can be used (Article 35(1)19); 

                                                             
18  In  that  context,  “the  competent  supervisory  authority  shall  apply  the  consistency  mechanism  referred  to  in 
Article 63 where such lists involve processing activities which are related to the offering of goods or services to 
data subjects or to the monitoring  of their behaviour in several Member States, or may substantially affect the 
free movement of personal data within the Union” (Article 35(6)). 
19 ”A single assessment may address a set of similar processing operations that present similar high risks”. 

12 

 

-  when  the  processing  operations  have  been  checked  by  a  supervisory  authority    before  May 

2018 in specific conditions that have not changed20 (see III.C); 

-  where a processing operation, pursuant to point (c) or (e) of article 6(1), has a legal basis in 
EU  or  Member  State  law,  where  the  law  regulates  the  specific  processing  operation  and 
where a DPIA has already been carried out as part of the establishment of that legal basis 
(Article 35(10))21, except if a Member state has stated it to be necessary to carry out a DPIA 
prior processing activities; 

-  where  the  processing  is  included  on  the  optional  list  (established  by  the  supervisory 
authority)  of  processing operations for  which  no  DPIA  is  required (Article 35(5)).  Such  a 
list  may  contain  processing  activities  that  comply  with  the  conditions  specified  by  this 
authority,  in  particular  through  guidelines,  specific  decisions  or  authorizations,  compliance 
rules, etc. (e.g. in France, authorizations, exemptions, simplified rules, compliance packs…). 
In such cases, and subject to re-assessment by the competent supervisory authority, a DPIA is 
not required, but only if the processing falls strictly within the scope of the relevant procedure 
mentioned in the list and continues to comply fully with  all the relevant requirements of the 
GDPR. 

What  about  already  existing  processing  operations?  DPIAs  are  required  in  some 

C. 
circumstances.  

The requirement to carry out a DPIA applies to existing processing operations likely to result in 
a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons and for which there has been a change 
of the risks, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing.  

A DPIA is not needed for processing operations that have been checked by a supervisory authority or 
the  data  protection  official,  in  accordance  with  Article  20  of  Directive  95/46/EC,  and  that  are 
performed  in  a  way  that  has  not  changed  since  the  prior  checking.  Indeed,  "Commission  decisions 
adopted  and  authorisations  by  supervisory  authorities  based  on  Directive  95/46/EC  remain  in  force 
until amended, replaced or repealed" (recital 171).  

Conversely, this means that any data processing whose conditions of implementation (scope, purpose, 
personal  data  collected,  identity  of  the  data  controllers  or  recipients,  data  retention  period,  technical 
and organisational measures, etc.) have changed since the prior checking performed by the supervisory 
authority or the data protection official and which are likely to result in a high risk should be subject to 
a DPIA.  

Moreover,  a  DPIA  could  be  required  after  a  change  of  the  risks  resulting  from  the  processing 
operations22,  for  example  because  a  new  technology  has  come  into  use  or  because  personal  data  is 
                                                             
20 "Commission decisions adopted and authorisations by supervisory authorities based on Directive 95/46/EC 
remain in force until amended, replaced or repealed" (recital 171). 
21  When  a  DPIA  is  carried  out  at  the  stage  of  the  elaboration  of  the  legislation  providing  a  legal  basis  for  a 
processing, it is likely to require a review before entry into operations, as the adopted legislation may differ from 
the  proposal  in  ways  that  affect  privacy  and  data  protection  issues.  Moreover,  there  may  not  be  sufficient 
technical details available regarding the actual processing at the time of adoption of the legislation, even if it was 
accompanied by a DPIA. In such cases, it may still be necessary to carry out a specific DPIA prior to carrying 
out the actual processing activities. 
22 In terms of the context, the data collected, purposes, functionalities, personal data processed, recipients, data 
combinations,  risks  (supporting  assets,  risk  sources,  potential  impacts,  threats,  etc.),  security  measures  and 
international transfers. 

13 

 

being  used  for  a  different  purpose.  Data  processing  operations  can  evolve  quickly  and  new 
vulnerabilities can arise. Therefore, it should be noted that the revision of a DPIA is not only useful for 
continuous  improvement,  but  also  critical  to  maintain  the  level  of  data  protection  in  a  changing 
environment  over  time.  A  DPIA  may  also  become  necessary  because  the  organisational  or  societal 
context for the processing activity has changed, for example because the effects of certain automated 
decisions  have  become  more  significant,  or  new  categories  of  data  subjects  become  vulnerable  to 
discrimination. Each of these examples could be an element that leads to a change of the risk resulting 
from processing activity concerned. 

Conversely, certain changes could lower the risk as well. For example, a processing operation could 
evolve so that decisions are no longer automated or if a monitoring activity is no longer systematic. In 
that case, the review of the risk analysis made can show that the performance of a DPIA is no longer 
required. 

As a matter of good practice, a DPIA should be continuously reviewed and regularly re-assessed. 
Therefore,  even  if  a  DPIA  is  not  required  on  25  May  2018,  it  will  be  necessary,  at  the  appropriate 
time, for the controller to conduct such a DPIA as part of its general accountability obligations. 

D. 

How to carry out a DPIA? 

a)  At what moment should a DPIA be carried out? Prior to the processing.  

The DPIA should be carried out “prior to the processing” (Articles 35(1) and 35(10), recitals 90 
and 93)23. This is consistent with data protection by design and by default principles (Article 25 
and recital 78). The DPIA should be seen as a tool for helping decision-making  concerning the 
processing. 

The DPIA should be started as early as is practicable in the design of the processing operation even if 
some  of  the  processing  operations  are  still  unknown.  Updating  the  DPIA  throughout  the  lifecycle 
project will ensure that data protection and privacy are considered and  will encourage the creation of 
solutions  which  promote  compliance.  It  can  also  be  necessary  to  repeat  individual  steps  of  the 
assessment  as  the  development  process  progresses  because  the  selection  of  certain  technical  or 
organizational measures may affect the severity or likelihood of the risks posed by the processing. 

The fact that the DPIA may need to be updated once the processing has actually started is not a valid 
reason for postponing or not carrying out a DPIA. The DPIA is an on-going process, especially where 
a  processing  operation  is  dynamic  and  subject  to  ongoing  change.  Carrying  out  a  DPIA  is  a 
continual process, not a one-time exercise. 

b)  Who is obliged to carry out the DPIA? The controller, with the DPO and processors. 

The controller is responsible for ensuring that the DPIA is carried out (Article 35(2)). Carrying 
out  the  DPIA  may  be  done  by  someone  else,  inside  or  outside  the  organization,  but  the  controller 
remains ultimately accountable for that task. 

                                                             
23 Except when it is an already existing processing that has been prior checked by the Supervisory Authority, in 
which case the DPIA should be carried out before undergoing significant changes. 

 

14 

The controller must also seek the advice of the Data Protection Officer (DPO), where designated 
(Article 35(2)) and this advice, and the decisions taken by the controller, should be documented within 
the  DPIA.  The  DPO  should  also  monitor  the  performance  of  the  DPIA  (Article  39(1)(c)).  Further 
guidance is provided in the WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officer 16/EN WP 243. 

If the processing is wholly or partly performed by a data processor,  the processor should assist the 
controller  in  carrying  out  the  DPIA  and  provide  any  necessary  information  (in  line  with  Article 
28(3)(f)). 

The  controller  must  “seek  the  views  of  data  subjects  or  their  representatives”  (Article  35(9)), 
“where appropriate”. The WP29 considers that: 

- 

- 

- 

those  views  could  be  sought  through  a  variety  of  means,  depending  on  the  context  (e.g.  a 
generic study related to the purpose and means of the processing operation, a question to the 
staff representatives, or usual surveys sent to the data controller’s future customers) ensuring 
that the controller has a lawful basis for processing any personal data involved in seeking such 
views.  Although  it  should  be  noted  that  consent  to  processing  is  obviously  not  a  way  for 
seeking the views of the data subjects; 
if the data controller’s final decision differs from the views of the data subjects, its reasons for 
going ahead or not should be documented; 
the controller should also document its justification for not seeking the views of data subjects, 
if  it  decides  that  this  is  not  appropriate,  for  example  if  doing  so  would  compromise  the 
confidentiality of companies’ business plans, or would be disproportionate or impracticable. 

Finally, it is good practice to define and document other specific roles and responsibilities, depending 
on internal policy, processes and rules, e.g.: 

-  where  specific  business  units  may  propose  to  carry  out  a  DPIA,  those  units  should  then 

provide input to the DPIA and should be involved in the DPIA validation process; 

-  where appropriate, it is recommended to seek the advice from independent experts of different 

- 

- 

- 

professions24 (lawyers, IT experts, security experts, sociologists, ethics, etc.). 
the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the  processors  must  be  contractually  defined;  and  the  DPIA 
must be carried out with the processor’s help, taking into account the nature of the processing 
and the information available to the processor (Article 28(3)(f)); 
the  Chief  Information  Security  Officer  (CISO),  if  appointed,  as  well  as  the  DPO,  could 
suggest that the controller carries out a DPIA on  a specific processing operation,  and should 
help the stakeholders on the methodology, help to evaluate the quality of the risk assessment 
and  whether  the  residual  risk  is  acceptable,  and  to  develop  knowledge  specific  to  the  data 
controller context; 
the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), if appointed, and/or the IT department, should 
provide  assistance  to  the  controller,  and  could  propose  to  carry  out  a  DPIA  on  a  specific 
processing operation, depending on security or operational needs. 

c)  What is the methodology to carry out a DPIA? Different methodologies but common 

criteria. 

 

 

                                                             
24 Recommendations for a privacy impact assessment framework for the European Union, Deliverable D3: 
http://www.piafproject.eu/ref/PIAF_D3_final.pdf. 

15 

 

The GDPR sets out the minimum features of a DPIA (Article 35(7), and recitals 84 and 90): 

- 
- 
- 
- 

“a description of the envisaged processing operations and the purposes of the processing”; 
“an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing”; 
“an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects”; 
“the measures envisaged to: 
o  “address the risks”; 
o  “demonstrate compliance with this Regulation”. 

 
The following figure illustrates the generic iterative process for carrying out a DPIA25: 

 

Compliance  with  a  code  of  conduct  (Article  40)  has  to  be  taken  into  account  (Article  35(8))  when 
assessing the impact of a data processing  operation. This can be useful to demonstrate that adequate 
measures  have  been  chosen  or  put  in  place,  provided  that  the  code  of  conduct  is  appropriate  to  the 
processing  operation.  Certifications,  seals  and  marks  for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating  compliance 
with the GDPR of processing operations by controllers and processors (Article 42), as well as Binding 
Corporate Rules (BCR), should be taken into account as well. 

                                                             
25 It should be underlined that the process depicted here is iterative: in practice, it is likely that each of the stages 
is revisited multiple times before the DPIA can be completed. 

 

16 

All the relevant requirements set out in the GDPR provide a broad, generic framework for designing 
and carrying out a DPIA. The practical implementation of a DPIA will depend on the requirements set 
out  in  the  GDPR  which  may  be  supplemented  with  more  detailed  practical  guidance.  The  DPIA 
implementation  is  therefore  scalable.  This  means  that  even  a  small  data  controller  can  design  and 
implement a DPIA that is suitable for their processing operations.  

Recital  90  of  the  GDPR  outlines  a  number  of  components  of  the  DPIA  which  overlap  with  well-
defined components of risk management (e.g. ISO 3100026). In risk management terms, a DPIA aims 
at “managing risks” to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, using the following processes, by: 

- 

- 
- 

establishing  the  context:  “taking  into  account  the nature, scope,  context  and  purposes  of the 
processing and the sources of the risk”; 
assessing the risks: “assess the particular likelihood and severity of the high risk”; 
treating  the  risks:  “mitigating  that  risk” and  “ensuring  the  protection  of  personal  data”,  and 
“demonstrating compliance with this Regulation”. 

Note: the DPIA under the GDPR is a tool for managing risks to the rights of the data subjects, and thus 
takes  their  perspective,  as  is  the  case  in  certain  fields  (e.g.  societal  security).  Conversely,  risk 
management in other fields (e.g. information security) is focused on the organization.  

The GDPR provides data controllers with flexibility to determine the precise structure and form of the 
DPIA in order to allow for this to fit with existing working practices. There are a number of different 
established processes within the EU and worldwide which take account of the components described 
in  recital  90.  However,  whatever  its  form,  a  DPIA  must  be  a  genuine  assessment  of  risks,  allowing 
controllers to take measures to address them. 

Different methodologies (see Annex 1 for examples of data protection and privacy impact assessment 
methodologies) could be used to assist in the implementation of the basic requirements set out in the 
GDPR.  In  order  to  allow  these  different  approaches  to  exist,  whilst  allowing  controllers  to  comply 
with  the  GDPR,  common  criteria  have  been  identified  (see  Annex  2).  They  clarify  the  basic 
requirements  of  the  Regulation,  but  provide  enough  scope  for  different  forms  of  implementation. 
These criteria can be used to show that a particular DPIA methodology meets the standards required 
by  the  GDPR.  It  is  up  to  the  data  controller  to  choose  a  methodology,  but  this  methodology 
should be compliant with the criteria provided in Annex 2. 

The WP29 encourages the development of sector-specific DPIA frameworks. This is because they can 
draw on specific sectorial knowledge, meaning the DPIA can address the specifics of a particular type 
of  processing  operation  (e.g.:  particular  types  of  data,  corporate  assets,  potential  impacts,  threats, 
measures). This means the DPIA can address the issues that arise in a particular economic sector, or 
when using particular technologies or carrying out particular types of processing operation. 

Finally, where necessary, “the controller shall carry out a review to assess if processing is performed 
in accordance with the data protection impact assessment at least when there is a change of the risk 
represented by processing operation” (Article 35(11)27). 

                                                             
26 Risk  management processes: communication and consultation, establishing the context,  risk assessment, risk 
treatment,  monitoring  and  review  (see  terms  and  definitions,  and  table  of  content,  in  the  ISO  31000  preview: 
https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:31000:ed-1:v1:en). 
27 Article 35(10) explicitly excludes only the application of article 35 paragraphs 1 to 7. 

17 

 

d)  Is there an obligation to publish the DPIA? No, but publishing a summary could foster 
trust, and the full DPIA must be communicated to the supervisory authority in case of 
prior consultation or if requested by the DPA. 

Publishing a DPIA is not a legal requirement of the GDPR, it is the controller´s decision to do so. 
However,  controllers  should  consider  publishing  at  least  parts,  such  as  a  summary  or  a 
conclusion of their DPIA. 

The purpose of such a process would be to help foster trust in the controller’s processing operations, 
and  demonstrate  accountability  and  transparency.  It  is  particularly  good  practice  to  publish  a  DPIA 
where members of the public are affected by the processing  operation. This could particularly be the 
case where a public authority carries out a DPIA. 

The published DPIA does not need to contain the whole assessment, especially when the DPIA could 
present specific information concerning security risks for the data controller or give away trade secrets 
or commercially sensitive information. In these circumstances, the published version could consist of 
just  a  summary  of  the  DPIA’s  main  findings,  or  even just  a  statement  that a  DPIA  has  been  carried 
out. 

Moreover, where a DPIA reveals high residual risks, the data controller will be required to seek prior 
consultation  for  the  processing  from  the  supervisory  authority  (Article  36(1)).  As  part  of  this,  the 
DPIA  must  be  fully  provided  (Article  36(3)(e)). The supervisory  authority  may  provide  its  advice28, 
and  will  not  compromise  trade  secrets  or  reveal  security  vulnerabilities,  subject  to  the  principles 
applicable in each Member State on public access to official documents. 

E. 

When shall the supervisory authority be consulted? When the residual risks are high. 

As explained above: 

- 

- 

a DPIA is required when a processing operation “is likely to result in a high risk to the rights 
and freedoms of natural person” (Article 35(1), see III.B.a). As an example, the processing of 
health data on a large scale is considered as likely to result in a high risk, and requires a DPIA; 
then, it is the responsibility of the data controller to assess the risks to the rights and freedoms 
of data subjects and to identify the measures29 envisaged to reduce those risks to an acceptable 
level and to demonstrate compliance with the GDPR (Article 35(7), see III.C.c). An example 
could be for the storage of personal data on laptop computers the use of appropriate technical 
and organisational security measures (effective full disk encryption, robust key management, 
appropriate  access  control,  secured  backups,  etc.)  in  addition  to  existing  policies  (notice, 
consent, right of access, right to object, etc.). 

In  the  laptop  example  above,  if  the  risks  have  been  considered  as  sufficiently  reduced  by  the  data 
controller  and  following  the  reading  of  Article  36(1)  and  recitals  84  and  94,  the  processing  can 
proceed  without  consultation  with  the  supervisory  authority.  It  is  in  cases  where  the  identified  risks 
cannot  be  sufficiently  addressed  by  the  data  controller  (i.e.  the  residual  risks  remains  high)  that  the 
data controller must consult the supervisory authority.  

                                                             
28  Written  advice  to  the  controller  is  only  necessary  when  the  supervisory  authority  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
intended processing is not in line with the regulation as per Article 36(2). 
29 Including taking account of existing guidance from EDPB and supervisory authorities and taking account of 
the state of the art and the costs of implementation as prescribed by Article 35(1). 

18 

 

An  example  of  an  unacceptable  high  residual  risk  includes  instances  where  the  data  subjects  may 
encounter  significant,  or  even  irreversible,  consequences,  which  they  may  not  overcome  (e.g.:  an 
illegitimate  access  to  data  leading  to  a  threat  on  the  life  of  the  data  subjects,  a  layoff,  a  financial 
jeopardy) and/or when it seems obvious that the risk will occur (e.g.: by not being able to reduce the 
number of people accessing the data because of its sharing, use or distribution modes, or when a well-
known vulnerability is not patched). 

Whenever  the  data  controller  cannot  find  sufficient  measures  to  reduce  the  risks  to  an 
acceptable level (i.e. the residual risks are still high), consultation with the supervisory authority 
is required30. 

Moreover,  the  controller  will  have  to  consult  the  supervisory  authority  whenever  Member  State  law 
requires controllers to consult with, and/or obtain prior authorisation from, the supervisory authority in 
relation to processing by a controller for the performance of a task carried out by the controller in the 
public interest, including processing in relation to social protection and public health (Article 36(5)). 

It  should  however  be  stated  that  regardless  of  whether  or  not  consultation  with  the  supervisory  is 
required based on the level of residual risk then the obligations of retaining a record of the DPIA and 
updating the DPIA in due course remain. 

IV. 

Conclusions and recommendations 

DPIAs  are  a  useful  way  for  data controllers  to  implement  data  processing  systems  that  comply  with 
the GDPR and can be mandatory for some types of processing operations. They are scalable and can 
take  different  forms,  but  the  GDPR  sets  out  the  basic  requirements  of  an  effective  DPIA.  Data 
controllers  should  see  the  carrying  out  of  a  DPIA  as  a  useful  and  positive  activity  that  aids  legal 
compliance.  

Article 24(1) sets out the basic responsibility of the controller in terms of complying with the GDPR: 
“taking  into  account  the  nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes  of  processing  as  well  as  the  risks  of 
varying  likelihood  and  severity  for  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons,  the  controller  shall 
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and to be able to demonstrate 
that  processing  is  performed  in  accordance  with  this  Regulation.  Those  measures  shall  be  reviewed 
and updated where necessary”. 

The DPIA is a key part of complying with the Regulation where high risk data processing is planned 
or is taking place. This means that data controllers should use the criteria set out in this document to 
determine whether or not a DPIA has to be carried out. Internal data controller policy could extend this 
list beyond the GDPR’s legal requirements. This should result in greater trust and confidence of data 
subjects and other data controllers. 

Where a likely high risk processing is planned, the data controller must: 

- 

choose a DPIA methodology (examples given in Annex 1) that satisfies the criteria in Annex 
2, or specify and implement a systematic DPIA process that: 

                                                             
30  Note:  “pseudonymization  and  encryption  of  personal  data”  (as  well  as  data  minimization,  oversight 
mechanisms,  etc.)  are  not  necessarily  appropriate  measures.  They  are  only  examples.  Appropriate  measures 
depend on the context and the risks, specific to the processing operations. 

 

19 

o 
o 

o 

is compliant with the criteria in Annex 2; 
is  integrated  into  existing  design,  development,  change,  risk  and  operational  review 
processes in accordance with internal processes, context and culture; 
involves  the  appropriate  interested  parties  and  clearly  define  their  responsibilities 
(controller,  DPO,  data  subjects  or  their  representatives,  business,  technical  services, 
processors, information security officer, etc.); 

- 
- 

- 

- 

provide the DPIA report to the competent supervisory authority when required to do so; 
consult  the  supervisory  authority  when  they  have  failed  to  determine  sufficient  measures  to 
mitigate the high risks; 
periodically review the DPIA and the processing it assesses, at least when there is a change of 
the risk posed by processing the operation; 
document the decisions taken. 

 

20 

 

 

Annex 1 – Examples of existing EU DPIA frameworks 

The  GDPR  does  not  specify  which  DPIA  process  must  be  followed  but  instead  allows  for  data 
controllers to introduce a framework which complements their existing working practices provided it 
takes account of the components described in Article 35(7). Such a framework can be bespoke to the 
data  controller  or  common  across  a  particular  industry.  Previously  published  frameworks  developed 
by EU DPAs and EU sector-specific frameworks include (but are not limited to):  

Examples of EU generic frameworks: 

-  DE: Standard Data Protection Model, V.1.0 – Trial version, 201631. 

https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/uploads/SDM-Methodology_V1_EN1.pdf 

-  ES:  Guía  para  una  Evaluación  de  Impacto  en  la  Protección  de  Datos  Personales  (EIPD), 

Agencia española de protección de datos (AGPD), 2014. 
https://www.agpd.es/portalwebAGPD/canaldocumentacion/publicaciones/common/Guias/Gui
a_EIPD.pdf 

-  FR: Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), Commission nationale de l’informatique et des libertés 

(CNIL), 2015. 
https://www.cnil.fr/fr/node/15798  

-  UK:  Conducting  privacy  impact  assessments  code  of  practice,  Information  Commissioner’s 

Office (ICO), 2014. 
https://ico.org.uk/media/for-organisations/documents/1595/pia-code-of-practice.pdf 

Examples of EU sector-specific frameworks: 
-  Privacy and Data Protection Impact Assessment Framework for RFID Applications32. 

http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2011/wp180_annex_en.pdf 

-  Data Protection Impact Assessment Template for Smart Grid and Smart Metering systems33 
http://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/ener/files/documents/2014_dpia_smart_grids_forces.pdf  

An international standard will also provide guidelines for methodologies used for carrying out a DPIA 
(ISO/IEC 2913434). 

 

                                                             
31  Unanimously  and  affirmatively  acknowledged  (under  abstention  of  Bavaria)  by  the  92.  Conference  of  the 
Independent Data Protection Authorities of the Bund and the Länder in Kühlungsborn on 9-10 November 2016. 
32 See also :  

-  Commission  Recommendation  of  12  May  2009 on  the  implementation  of  privacy  and  data  protection 

principles in applications supported by radio- frequency identification. 
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/commission-recommendation-12-may-2009-
implementation-privacy-and-data-protection-principles 

-  Opinion 9/2011 on the revised Industry Proposal for a Privacy and Data Protection Impact Assessment 

Framework for RFID Applications. 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2011/wp180_en.pdf 

33 See also the Opinion 07/2013 on the Data Protection Impact Assessment Template for Smart Grid and Smart 
Metering Systems (‘DPIA Template’) prepared by Expert Group 2 of the Commission’s Smart Grid Task Force. 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2013/wp209_en.pdf 
34  ISO/IEC  29134  (project),  Information  technology  –  Security  techniques  –  Privacy  impact  assessment  – 
Guidelines, International Organization for Standardization (ISO). 

21 

 

Annex 2 – Criteria for an acceptable DPIA 

The WP29  proposes the following  criteria  which data  controllers  can  use  to assess  whether  or not a 
DPIA,  or  a  methodology  to  carry  out  a  DPIA,  is  sufficiently  comprehensive  to  comply  with  the 
GDPR: 

  a systematic description of the processing is provided (Article 35(7)(a)): 

  nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes  of  the  processing  are  taken  into  account  (recital 

90); 

  personal  data,  recipients  and  period  for  which  the  personal  data  will  be  stored  are 

recorded; 

  a functional description of the processing operation is provided; 
  the assets on which personal data rely (hardware, software, networks, people, paper or 

paper transmission channels) are identified; 

  compliance with approved codes of conduct is taken into account (Article 35(8)); 

  necessity and proportionality are assessed (Article 35(7)(b)): 

  measures  envisaged  to  comply  with  the  Regulation  are  determined  (Article  35(7)(d) 

and recital 90), taking into account: 

  measures  contributing  to  the  proportionality  and  the  necessity  of  the 

processing on the basis of: 

  specified, explicit and legitimate purpose(s) (Article 5(1)(b)); 
  lawfulness of processing (Article 6); 
  adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  data  (Article 

5(1)(c)); 

  limited storage duration (Article 5(1)(e)); 

  measures contributing to the rights of the data subjects: 

  information provided to the data subject (Articles 12, 13 and 14); 
  right of access and to data portability (Articles 15 and 20); 
  right to rectification and to erasure (Articles 16, 17 and 19);  
  right to object and to restriction of processing (Article 18, 19 and 21); 
  relationships with processors (Article 28); 
  safeguards surrounding international transfer(s) (Chapter V); 
  prior consultation (Article 36). 

  risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects are managed (Article 35(7)(c)): 

  origin, nature, particularity and severity of the risks are appreciated (cf. recital 84) or, 
more  specifically,  for  each  risk  (illegitimate  access,  undesired  modification,  and 
disappearance of data) from the perspective of the data subjects: 

  risks sources are taken into account (recital 90); 
  potential impacts to the rights and freedoms of data subjects are identified in 
case  of  events  including  illegitimate  access,  undesired  modification  and 
disappearance of data; 

  threats  that  could  lead  to  illegitimate  access,  undesired  modification  and 

disappearance of data are identified; 

  likelihood and severity are estimated (recital 90); 

  measures  envisaged  to  treat  those  risks  are  determined  (Article  35(7)(d)  and  recital 

90); 

  interested parties are involved: 

  the advice of the DPO is sought (Article 35(2)); 
  the  views  of  data  subjects  or  their  representatives  are  sought,  where  appropriate 

(Article 35(9)). 

 

22 

