1/12

Procedure No.: PS/00106/2019


938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

 A.A.A.

 (hereinafter, the claimant) on 08/17/2018 filed
FIRST:
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against the PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF ALMERIA with NIF P0400000F (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are the improper charge to the account
bank of CAJAMAR, of which she is co-owner with her husband, B.B.B., by order of the
"Sector II consortium of the province of Almería for waste management". Indicates that
with said entity they have a contentious-administrative procedure, for "having given us
irregularly registered in the register”, “without having the service”, and “against the
ordinances", thus billing a "non-existent service", and "having requested the withdrawal
repeatedly". He adds that to include us in the garbage registry, the “Consortium used the
data that the Diputación has regarding the IBI”, and that “at no time have we been
requested any authorization for the direct debit of the receipts of the Consortium
of Sector II”

Provide a copy of:

1) Receipt of debit in CAJAMAR account of 06/05/2018, installment 199.06 euros, data
of the creditor, Diputación Provincial de Almería with the details of the claimant. Bill
YYYY YYYY YYYY YYYY ending in YYYY.

2) Printed sheet from LEXNET with data from the lawsuit, 05/14/2018.

3) Document from the claimant and her husband addressed to the Diputación, dated 06/19/2018,
stating that they are holders of two parcels each in the name of one of them, (RRR to
name of her husband), in community property, and explaining that a
charge in the common account, with the data of the claimant, in which the
concept, and that after having called on the phone they have informed him that it is "garbage
sector II consortium”, without them having provided their account for said position or
direct debit, and that the receipt has been returned without paying, informing you of the procedure
judicial pending "for having registered us in the garbage register without having such
service”, and “having requested the suspension of the collection of receipts, both to the Diputación
like the consortium. The claimants indicate that on said brief they did not receive
response.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and "In accordance
with the functions provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of 04/27/2016, General of
Data Protection (RGPD), particularly those that respond to respect, on the part of the
responsible for the treatment, of the principles of transparency and proactive responsibility,
transfer of the filed claim is given, requiring that, within a maximum period of one
month from its reception, send to this Agency the relevant documentation related to the
procedures carried out in relation to the facts set forth in the claim,
including in particular the following information:

1. Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that the
claimant has received communication of that decision.

Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the

Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring

two.

3.

claim.

Similar.

    4. Any other that you consider relevant.”

The respondent answers on 5/11/2019:
1) Provide a copy of the document sent to the claimant on 10/26/2018 parcel RRR, polg.

VV, and another in the name of her husband. In them, it stands out:

a) “Examined the open files in the Tax Administration Service
consists of: "request file for postponement/split payment of debt
presented on 11/22/2017” which contains a provisional schedule for the postponement of
six-month debt, in response to garbage rate debt deferral request
of the Sector II Consortium, appearing signed by the claimants and presented in the
Registry of the Diputación on 09/14 and 11/22/2017. “In the calendar there are eight
rubbish tax receipts issued”, being the total of the deferred debt of 199.06 euros,
including default interest. The end date of postponement is 06/05/2018, without
other terms to pay appear. “The postponement was not complied with because the direct debit
was returned by the bank. Direct debit payment/deferral is mandatory
according to the general collection ordinance. And it is always done “at the request of the
interested in writing. States that given the reiteration of the request whose sole purpose
is to defer payment while the courts rule on the legality of registration in the
register of the rate, "we contacted by telephone up to three times with both
applicants to inform them of the provisional postponement, and of the direct debit”.
Indicates that this is accredited with the annotations that appear in the computer system
PISAT.

There is also a record of debt installment of the husband of the
claimant, dated 01/03/2017, which includes, “application, fax, certificate, account number
banking, installment debts”.

Consequence of brief filed on 04/23/2018 reiterating the request for
deferral of collection of garbage receipts,
  management file
appeals/claims no. ***FILE.1. It mentions the requests for
09/14 and 11/22/2017, indicating that they had not been answered. Responds in writing to
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

05/23/2018, "informing them of the formal way to request the postponement and the effects
legal documents that do not meet the requirements for processing.

Consequence of the brief presented on 06/18/2018, regarding the returned fee receipt
garbage-which is actually the domiciled expiration of the debt deferment of
garbage fee. It is answered on 09/26/2018, informing you about how to proceed with
in relation to notifications of urgency, and requests for debt deferral.

They state that the notifications of debts, provisional payment schedules and
communications, "in all notification attempts, the common rule is 'stay away' and 'stay away'.
left notice” “refused” or “unknown”.

“Art 40 of the General Collection Ordinance of the Provincial Council of
Almería, BOP 81 of 05/02/2017 states that both in postponements and in
subdivisions, if the request meets all the requirements, the interested party will be given a
Provisional payment schedule, which will be fulfilled while the file is being processed.
“The generic requests for postponement or installment, which do not meet the requirements
requirements for its processing, do not suspend the notified administrative act”.

It states that the personal data is treated under the responsibility of the
Diputación de Almería, for the purpose of Tax Management, Collection and Inspection of
the taxes and resources of public law of the local, provincial and regional finances that
have delegated to this Provincial Council, based on the legitimacy of legal obligation.

2) The respondent provides a copy of the report of 10/22/2018 of the Deputy Head of the
Tax Administration in matters of Legal Advice and Relations with
taxpayers, of the Diputación, which serves as the basis for the writings in response to the
claimant, in which among other points, indicates that among the elements of the
open files in the Tax Administration Service, there is evidence of non-compliance
of the postponement of the eight garbage rate receipts issued to the claimant for
amount of 199.06 euros on 06/05/2018. It states that “The postponement was unfulfilled
because the direct debit was returned by the bank”” The direct debit is made to the account
bank account of Mr. B.B.B., whose bank certificate confirmed to us an installment of
debt requested by
  The address of
installments / postponements is mandatory according to our General Ordinance of
Collection. The direct debit of the installment/deferral request is made
always at the request of the interested party in writing. In the present case, taking into account the
reiteration of the request, the sole purpose of which is to defer payment until they are pronounced
the courts about the legality of registration in the rate registry, contacted
telephone up to three times with both applicants to inform them of the
provisional postponement and direct debit, as accredited in the system
PISAT computerized telephone system as a means of correcting deficiencies that have been
abandoned in 2018, because the recording of the
conversation, as in the present case.”

indicated taxpayer.

  the

 

Settle the claim:

- Dismissing the claimant's claim indicating that the Diputación has

used personal data without your consent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

- Notify that the collection procedure for pending debts is not suspended, as
as was informed in other writings because the request for suspension does not meet the
essential requirements for its processing.

3) The respondent provides a copy of the document signed by the claimant and her husband on
09/14/2017, (registered 11/22/2017) in which in reference to the RRR and SSS plots,
each one registered with a different ownership (claimant and spouse) and with a reference
different cadastral record, they indicate that on several occasions they have requested the Municipality of
Tabernas and the Consortium of sector 2 "the postponement of collection of garbage receipts
that they are sending me, and to date I have not received a response in this regard”.
It mentions the previous request for deferment of collection of receipts of 08/10/2017, without
have received a response. “As we have already stated, a dispute has begun
administrative action against the Consortium for understanding that they want to apply a rate of
rubbish that does not correspond due to the lack of said service“, they also add that
”it will have serious repercussions on our family economy due to being unemployed,
It would also unnecessarily complicate the recovery of what was paid.

4) The respondent contributes:

4.1- Copy of a letter from the Provincial Council addressed to the husband of the claimant, dated 01/03/2017
that indicates "Given your request for deferment of payment submitted on 12/27/2016,
annexes the list of installment debts and payment schedule "" that will be charged in the
account contributed by you within the indicated periods” being treated according to the annex of the
liquidation, of the IBI and principal amount of €1,107.75 and in annex two with a calendar
monthly starting on 02/06/2017 and ending on 01/07/2019, total amount of €1,151. Nope
the bank account number is displayed, which does appear on the copy they provide of a
request of 12/27/2016, postponement -split of debts with the data of
claimant and her husband, signed by only one, with a stamp entered in the registry of
City Hall of Tabernas on 12/27/2016, obligated to pay financial years 2013 to 2016, total
debt 1,107, 75 and an address in CAJA MAR account YYYY YYYY YYYY YYYY finished
in YYYY. Copies of IBI receipts for years 2013 to 2016 are also provided.

4.2-copy of the document from the claimant and her husband dated 08/10/2017 addressed to the Provincial Council
that indicates "On different occasions I have requested the deferment of collection of bills
of garbage that they are sending me without, to date, receiving a reply to the
regard". Similar writ signed on 09/14/2017 and 11/22/2017.

4.3-Copy of document signed by claimant and spouse dated 11/22/2017 in which they addressed
to the Treasury area of the Diputación, they expose the ownership of the two plots. express
who requested on 09/14/2017 the deferral of collection of garbage receipts that are
sending, without receiving a response, they refer another identical request of 08/10/2017, and
“I keep receiving messages indicating that my receipt of fees is in the period
voluntary payment until 11/20/2017”. Informs of the pending litigation against the
Consortium, The brief maintains the request for postponement. Another document signed by the
same people also addressed to the Treasury Department on 09/14/2017, the document appears signed.
09/24/2017, with the same content.

4.4-Copy of the letter from the Diputación de Almería to the claimant dated 11/28/2017 in the
that they send on the one hand, the list of fractional debts "presented by you in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

11/22/2017” and by another “schedule of installment payment” that will be charged in the
account contributed by you within the indicated periods. With your data, annex I, subject
installment payment, garbage, 8 receipts, total debt as of 11/28/2017: 199.06 euros, In
Annex II in the payment schedule, installment payment date: 06/05/2018 for the aforementioned amount.

4.5-Copy of the computerized notification from the Diputación de Almería of “providence of
compulsion issuance 03/23/2018 in the name of the claimant's husband for 102.31 euros
“executive debts” and indicates the collaborating banks. Entity/Town Hall “Conso.
Sector II”, notification 511, and another equal, same amount, with the number 512.

4.6- Copy of the form from the Diputación de Almería addressed to the husband of the claimant for
Garbage rate of finished plot in RRR, "executive debts" total amount to pay
102.31. The last installment that appears is that of the first quarter of 2017 and on dates, 11/28/2017,
It is accompanied by a postal certificate signed on 04/11/2018.

4.7-Copy of letter dated 04/23/2018 addressed to the Treasury of the claimant and her husband in
which state that they have requested on different dates the deferral of collection of the
garbage receipts to both the Consortium and the City Council, referring dates of
9/2016, 4/2017 and 8/2017. Indicates that on 04/15/2018 I accidentally picked up two
receipts from the council in which we are informed of two notifications of providence of
urgency and payment requirements corresponding to a plot, and requests the suspension or
postponement of the execution of the order of urgency, and in accordance with what the
offer of the receipt that says "however you can request the installment or
deferral of debt payment” that received no responses. In the letter, he requests that
accept the request for deferral of receipts.

4.8-Writ of claimant and husband of 04/23/2018 to the Diputación in which they indicate
that "on different occasions they have requested the deferment of collection of the receipts of
rubbish and to date they have not received an answer”, which they have studied both at the
Consortium as well as the City Council and the Provincial Council and request that all
action to collect receipts until there is a final judgment, and that on 04/15/2018
They have collected a notice of notification of the order of urgency of the RRR plot.

4.9-Copy of letter dated 05/21/2018 addressed by the Provincial Council to the claimant indicating
“examined the request submitted by the indicated taxpayer in relation to
notifications of enforcement order…” and informs you of the period for the payment of the
debt. It is also indicated that "you can request deferment or installment ... and you will be
informs that these require, among others, “the direct debit of the payment. “This procedure
he knows it because there are several receipts for garbage fees in installments” .

4.10-Writ from the Provincial Council to the claimant's husband dated 05/21/2018 "Examined the
application submitted by the aforementioned taxpayers, in relation to notifications of
order of urgency, I inform you…”, informs you of the appeals to be filed, and that
You can request a postponement.

4.11-Writing from the Provincial Council to the claimant and her husband, dated 09/18/2018:
“Examined the request presented by the indicated taxpayers, in relation to
notifications of enforcement order, I inform you…”, informs you of the resources to
file, and that you can request a postponement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

THIRD: On 02/27/2019, the claim was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 07/12/2019, the Director of the AEPD initiated a warning procedure
proceedings against the PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF ALMERIA for alleged infringement of
Article 5.1 a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
04/27/2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to processing
of personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD), of
in accordance with article 83.5 a), as indicated in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 07/31/2020, the respondent reiterates what was stated in her allegations
that personal data has not been used without the consent of the affected party.

SIXTH: On 02/11/2020, a resolution proposal was formulated, with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with a warning to the PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF ALMERIA, for an infraction of the
Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD, as indicated in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD”.

Against it, no allegations were received.

SEVENTH Faced with the proposal, on 02/24/2020, the respondent makes the following
allegations:

1) Copy of the report from the head of the Tax administration service of 02/21/2020 in which
alleges:

a) They have an Information Security Committee with delegate functions

Data Protection.

b) The SAT of the Diputación has a strict information treatment policy
in tax matters, having a certificate of quality in attention to the taxpayer,
having passed different audits.

c) Procedures have been developed for face-to-face telephone and telematic attention to

the taxpayers.

d) The reported matter is a matter governed by the LGT and that the taxpayers have
used for delaying purposes, and that they are working to improve “the measures of
security in the processing of personal data.

2) Copy of the letter from the DPO stating that "instructions will be given to
technicians of the Diputación with competences in the matter of data protection so that they can
carry out an analysis of compliance with art 5 of the RGPD, especially in the forms of
collection of personal data that includes the communication of current accounts, to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

object of collecting the consent of the holders of the same to domicile in
account and installment of payments.”

PROVEN FACTS

1) The claimant denounces the Provincial Council of Almería for issuing a receipt
of 06/05/2018, fee 199.06 euros for garbage management, to your bank account, from
CAJAMAR, of which she is co-owner with her husband, tells YYYY YYYY YYYY YYYY
ending in YYYY without this having provided it. He adds that, to include us in
the rubbish register, the "Consortium used the data that the Diputación has regarding the IBI", and
that “at no time has any authorization been requested from us for direct debit
bank of the garbage receipts of the Sector II Consortium. The copy of the receipt shows
Date signed mandate 11/22/2017 (page 3 of 9 of the claimant's complaint).

2) The claimant and her husband addressed a letter to the Diputación, on 06/19/2018,
stating that they are owners of two parcels, with their two cadastral reference numbers
each one in the name of one of them, in a community property regime, and explaining that
made a charge to the common account, with the data of the claimant, in which no
identifies the concept, and that after calling on the phone they have been informed that it is
of "garbage consortium sector II", without them having provided their account for said position
or direct debit, and that the receipt has been returned without paying”. The complainants indicate that
They did not receive a response on said letter.

3) The claimant filed a contentious-administrative judicial claim against the
Consortium of Sector II of Almería for waste management before 06/05/2018,
appealing the administrative resolution TTT/2017 of ***DATE.1.

4) According to the explanations given by the respondent, the amount of 199.06
euros is the result of the 6-month deferral requested on 09/14/2017 and 11/22/2017
by the claimant and her husband, including 8 receipts for the garbage fee, although only
appears in the detail of payments, one for the total, that of 06/05/2018.

 There is no evidence that the claimant provided any bank account for direct debit

of the aforementioned amount of 199.06 euros.

5) The direct debit in that account, as explained by the respondent, was produced not by a
account provided in said request for deferment, but in an account that
claimed the claimant's husband's claimant, "whose certificate consisted of a
installment of debt requested by the indicated taxpayer”. This is a postponement
prior payment of the IBI requested by the claimant's husband, showing compliance
also mentioned the data of the complainant, of 12/27/2016, and in which this
time, if expressly by the applicants, claimant and spouse, the account: CAJA MAR
YYYY YYYY YYYY YYYY ending in YYYY.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

The defendant is charged with the infringement of article 5.1 a and .2 of the RGPD, which indicates:

“Personal data will be:

II

a)

processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of the
paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

The garbage rate is characterized as a public income for the municipal provision
of a service, considering as its taxable event the provision of the service,
mandatory reception, collection and treatment of the waste generated. among others in
the private home. being the passive subject of the rate, the owner of the same. I know
the rate accrues and the obligation to contribute arises from the moment in which the
provision of the service, understood as initiated, given the nature of mandatory reception
thereof, when the municipal collection service is established and operational
of rubbish in the streets or places of the municipal area. The claimant had put in
knowledge of the claimed challenge of the debt for said rate before the
issuance of the account charge.

There is a request for postponement from the claimant, which is a voluntary act
instance of a party, to which the taxpayer can avail, but in that form that
collected the claimed, there is no bank account for its eventual payment.

Based on this, in this case, the obtaining of the bank account of the
the claimant who was charged by the Provincial Council on 06/05/2018 for the purpose
indicated collection / direct debit of deferred payment of garbage fee, requested
on 11/22/2017.

Regarding management, the nature of the fees must be known. Among others, the

Judgment of the Supreme Court of 7/6/997, considered that:

«...It is obligatory, in this regard, to remember that the taxable event of the rate is constituted
for the provision of a service or the performance of an activity that benefits or affects
in particular to the passive subject. Article 26.1 specifically says so. a) of the General Law
General Tax Law of 1963, according to which 'rates are taxes whose taxable event consists
in the provision of services or the performance of activities under public law.
public that refer to, affect, or benefit taxpayers, when the two
following circumstances:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

a) That they are of obligatory request or reception for the administered; b) not
may be provided or carried out by the private sector insofar as they imply intervention in the
action of individuals or any other manifestation of the exercise of authority or
because, in relation to said services, their reservation is established in favor of the public sector.
public in accordance with current regulations.

... not even the mere existence of a municipal service is enough to constitute a
person in passive subject of the rate established for its financing, if the service is not
lends such that it can be considered especially affected by it, in the form
of effective benefit or provocation by the interested party of the municipal activity, since only
with these characteristics, it can be a municipal service that legitimizes the demand for
rate."

Usually, the management of the garbage rate is managed with a municipal register,
There are certain legal obligations for taxpayers, such as the communication of
high, low and data variation. In addition, the administration can ex officio promote the
timely inspections to consider subjection to it

It is understood that the fee collection procedures are a legal competence
attributed to the claimant. The configuration of the rate and taxpayers and management is governed
by the regulatory tax ordinance of the garbage collection rate approved by the
plenary session of the town hall, while the administrative request for the postponement of debt
is regulated by its generic nature in the General Collection Ordinance of the
Provincial Council.

If you opt for the postponement request, one of the foreseen requirements is to fulfill
Enter the "Direct debit order, indicating the customer account code number and
the identification data of the credit or deposit institution that must make the charge
into account.”, noting the regulatory tax ordinance that: “Submitted the application for
postponement, if there is any defect in it or in the documentation provided,
The interested party will be granted a period of 10 days for its correction with the warning
that if they do not do so, the application will be filed without further ado, which will be
will be considered as not presented, with the consequent continuation of the procedure.

In this sense, the generic authorization of the claimed party for the management of the fee is
would frame the legitimacy of article 6.1.c) of the RGPD that indicates "the treatment is
necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the person in charge of the
treatment;" since it is appreciated that the management of the garbage rate is a competence
attributed to the one claimed by legal regulations in which treatments are included and derived
of personal data of the passive subject, both executives and volunteers. postponement
payment is a voluntary act of the taxpayer, the content of which is provided for in the ordinance
of the Diputación, must contain, among others, the data of the bank account for
have it presented and processed with the corresponding account charge, and may be
remedy this deficiency.

 In the present case, there is no evidence that in the request for deferment of payment of
debt that causes the charge to the account, nor in the related process of rectification

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

and give said account number. According to the provisions of the Provincial Ordinance, if
If the account number was missing, it should have been sent in writing to the applicant for the
postponement warning you of the rectification of requirements to be met, granting a period
after which, if the account had not been provided, he should have filed the
itself for not meeting the aforementioned requirement considered mandatory and legal. In
consequently, missing the bank account number and there being no correction, no
should have issued any charge as there is no direct debit bank for the request.

On the contrary, it is proven that the bank account chosen by the claimed party is
one that was previously in its possession, which had another purpose and is provided
by the claimant at the time for the payment of another tax, which does not mean that
These data must also be used for the payment of the garbage rate, which is dealt with in this
procedure, since there is no element in the file indicating that the
taxpayers or claimant that data for this purpose. It is evident that the
account that was held once before, given for a specific, distinct and specific purpose.

 
Article 4.2 of the RGPD points out:

4.2: “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication
by transmission, broadcast or any other form of authorization of access, collation or
interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

A person's bank account number is personal data according to
repeated sentences (National Court, salt of the contentious advo. sentence
01/30/2014 resource 554/2012 and 11/3/2015. Appeal 333/2014). The bank account information
allows the claimant to be identified as the owner of the account, and with the sending of the account
by the claimed is identified by the Bank, suffering the charge of the payment of the rate of
rubbish. With the incorporation of said bank account not provided for the payment of
that rate, the data of the bank account escapes the purpose granted by the claimant and
her husband in the past and is used in an unjustified way in the treatment of payment of
another different rate over time.

The respondent is able to prove that the bank account used was given for a
previous treatment, not for the current garbage rate. Therefore, in the treatment
made of said bank account information for the payment of a deferral that does not
contained the completed bank account, there is no legitimate basis on the part of the
claimed to use another previous bank account that was listed at a previous time with
occasion of the payment of another different tax.

III

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article
83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

amount.”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all

the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a specified manner and within a specified time.

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to sanction with a fine those
public entities, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the
LOPDDGG:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of

those who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning
to them with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

In this sense, the respondent must take note that each tax, or each rate
contains a series of data that the taxpayer must provide, different because it is the
different purpose, especially the account number that in this case was not provided,
and you should know that in the field of data protection in this case the use of an account
bank account for the payment of a tax does not account for the payment of a subsequent fee. By
Therefore, aware of this fact, no specific measures are imposed to correct the
infringement.

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a sanction of WARNING on the PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
DE ALMERÍA, with NIF P0400000F, for an infringement of Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD, of
in accordance with article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF
ALMERIA.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be suspended
precautionary the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses his
intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry
of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

