Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0030/2021  

The inquiry focuses on the adequacy of the current legal framework regarding access by the State Security Forces and Corps (FCS hereinafter) to the information held by Telecommunications Operators (the operators hereinafter) derived from the services they provide and the possibilities under the law to improve the system for combating this type of fraud.  

SIM Swapping is the colloquial term used to refer to this type of fraud, which mainly consists of a third party, not the holder of the SIM card, requesting a duplicate of said SIM card from the corresponding operator (which entails the cancellation of the previous SIM card) to receive in that duplicate the SMS messages that the banking entity sends to its clients as a security measure to confirm certain banking operations.  

This type of fraud requires that the third party has previously managed to obtain the victim's credentials to access and authenticate in the electronic banking service.  

Once the third party has access to the electronic banking services and the victim's SIM card (duplicated card), they can operate freely to make transactions in the victim's current accounts and other financial products, as the execution of any operation involves sending a confirmation SMS to the phone line that the affected party has provided to the banking entity for these purposes, which in this case has been duplicated and is in the possession of said third party.  

Therefore, it can be stated that the treatment under analysis must take into account the initial stage that occurs at the banking entity when the third party obtains the victim's access and authentication credentials, in a second moment, the identity theft before the operator to access the duplicate of the SIM card, and the final stage of this treatment is the communication to the FCS and the Public Prosecutor's Office for their investigation.  

I  

Currently, there is a Working Group constituted among the authorized agents (Article 6.2 of Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to electronic communications and public communications networks, or LCDT) and the operators (GT Authorized Agents-Operators) to comply with information requests related to data subject to judicial order (Article 3 LCDT), among which issues regarding the operation of delivering said information are addressed.  

For these purposes, a general information exchange system SIGMA is used, which allows for practically immediate access by the authorized agents to said information, from which two subtypes or classes can be distinguished: automated (XML) and semi-automated (VPN-SFTP), in which the operators provide the authorized agents with "structured information" that specifically refers to that mentioned in the cited Article 3 LCDT.  

However, in police investigations related to this type of fraud, the data regarding the date, time, and manner of the activation of a duplicate SIM card become particularly important, that is, what type of channel was used, whether it was online or in-person/physical, and the location from which it was carried out, in case it was done through an in-person channel. Additionally, any documentation supporting the request for the duplicate must be included.  

However, in relation to the information exchange system, all this is considered "unstructured information" and means that the operator must perform a "manual" query, negatively affecting the speed and effectiveness of investigations in which such data is essential.  

In this regard, the Secretary of State for Security, in their report provided in the meetings of GT1, indicates the following: "Criminals are aware of these delays and take advantage of them to commit these acts at times when banking and telephone users find it more difficult to contact customer service of banks and operators due to not functioning at 100%, such as weekends, late afternoons or nights, holidays, and long weekends; resulting in that when a complaint is filed at a police station, unlike inquiries about telephone ownership, agents cannot know this data immediately, resulting in harm to the citizen and to the banks and operators themselves, due to economic impact or damage to their reputation."  

Taking the above into account, the questions raised within GT1 are whether said information deemed necessary for the investigation...
Legal Office
of this type of fraud is under the protection of Law 25/2007 of October 18, that is, if they can be considered traffic data linked to a communication process, and if so, whether the application of the aforementioned law complies with the requirements of the principle of proportionality according to the CJEU ruling of April 8, 2014 (Case C-293/2012) or if, on the contrary, they are data related to the "ownership" of the service, that is, subscriber data and therefore subject to the access regime provided for in Article 588 ter m of the Criminal Procedure Law (LECrim), and, where applicable, to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, or Directive (EU) 2016/680. Since, depending on the applicable legal regime, judicial authorization will then be necessary to access the information that the Law Enforcement Agencies (FCS) and the Public Prosecutor's Office consider necessary to investigate and prosecute this type of crime.

Therefore, taking into account that the main issue under analysis is whether judicial authorization will be necessary for access to certain information, based on the understanding that one norm or another applies, and secondly, as a consequence of the above, the manner in which operators store traffic data from the telecommunications service, it is appropriate to advance that this is a matter outside the competence of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and that this report is limited to analyzing the type of data subject to processing, and in accordance with the applicable regulations, proposing the alternatives that it considers legally appropriate, without prejudice to the better judgment of those bodies or institutions with specific competence in the matter, such as the General Council of the Judiciary or the bodies of ordinary or constitutional jurisdiction that must address these matters.

II
Taking the above into account, it is appropriate to establish the following differentiation regarding the data related to the identification process of the subscriber to request a duplicate SIM, which is the information whose access the FCS considers fundamental to pursue this type of crime swiftly and effectively:
Information related to the request: (i) type of channel used, whether in person, information about the physical location of the distributor, (ii) date and time of the request, when and how the operator verified the identity of the requester, and in what place, as well as (iii) the documentation provided for processing the request.

                                                             Legal Office
Information related to the activation of the "new" SIM: (iv) date and time of activation and its location, as well as other information that may be relevant: the IMEI of the device with which the duplicated SIM is activated (the IMEI is assigned to all devices at the factory and serves to uniquely identify a device), or the IMSI being used on a particular device, or in other words, the IMSI that is related to a specific IMEI. 

It is important to clarify, first of all, that the IMSI is integrated into the SIM card and serves to internationally identify the subscriber, from which an MSISDN is assigned that is known as the commercial number, colloquially referred to as the phone number. Secondly, it should be noted that the SIM card contains programming that, once the PIN is entered, allows the search for GSM and UMTS networks and attempts to connect to one of them. Once connected to the network, the phone (IMSI and IMEI) is registered and will be available to use the contracted services. 

Therefore, the IMSI will appear in all connections between the device and the network, regardless of the communicative process. Regarding the IMEI, as previously indicated, it serves to uniquely identify the device on the network, and it is also used to cross-reference with the EIR (Equipment Identity Register) database for the purpose of enabling the reception and emission of calls, as this database includes those IMEIs of devices authorized to make and receive calls and those that are not, either because they correspond to stolen devices or used illegally or because their access to the system could cause serious technical problems; therefore, they cannot make or receive calls.

The consequence of the operation of the described system is that when the connection between the device and the network occurs, operators capture not only the IMSI but also the IMEI of the device. That is, network operators know this link between the IMSI and the IMEI. 

In this regard, it is appropriate to first cite the Report of October 19, 2016, from the National Commission of Markets and Competition (CNMC) which states: 
"Regarding the issue of linking an IMEI with the data of a subscriber (IMSI, MSISDN), even though there is no prior knowledge on the part of the operator of which IMEI a subscriber is using (a user has the freedom to use the devices they wish).
Legal Office
without prior information to the operator), when the latter registers on the mobile network or makes a call, the operator is indeed aware that a specific device identified by an IMEI has registered or is using the mobile network utilizing a specific IMSI.”
Secondly, it is appropriate to cite what is indicated in Annex I of Opinion 1/19 of the Cybercrime Unit of the Attorney General's Office regarding the scope of the request for identification data of holders, terminals, and/or connectivity devices provided for in the new article 588 ter m of the Criminal Procedure Law (Opinion 1/19 hereinafter), which analyzes what information operators capture with the connection of a mobile device to the network:
In relation to all of the above, the technical instruction of the corresponding standard establishes that it must be possible for the network to carry out a check of the IMEI of the terminal in each access attempt to the network that it makes, except in those that occur to close the connection. Similarly, it must be possible to perform the IMEI check at any time during an established call when a dedicated radio resource is available, in accordance with the operator's network security policy. It must also be possible to perform the IMEI check when registered in an Internet data session (Internet Media Service, IMS). In fact, if the result of the IMEI check against the operator's blacklist determines that it is a terminal with prohibited network use, the result will be the same as when there is an error in the authentication of a subscriber using their SIM card and their IMSI, thus denying the establishment of calls or Internet sessions, as well as the execution of other network activities. It is important to note that the verb tense used by the technical instruction is “must be possible,” so there is no obligation established for the execution of IMEI checks for these purposes; in fact, it is clarified that they will be done “in accordance with the operator's security policy.”
On the other hand, it is established that the IMEI and the IMEISV are elements of mobile identification information that must be communicated by the mobile station to the network, at least in the following cases:
• When the user makes an emergency call without a SIM or with an invalid SIM or IMSI.
• When a configuration procedure for the encryption mode is executed.
• When an authentication and encryption procedure is executed in the context of GPRS connections.
The last two cases are processes that the network executes automatically and are usually established practically every time a connection is established between the mobile station and the network, which involves authentication and encryption procedures to ensure the confidentiality of data thus cataloged [12]. It is necessary to emphasize that these connection establishments are not limited to moments when the user or subscriber initiates the process to make a communication per se, but can occur for reasons unrelated to the subscriber's communications and that are related to network processes necessary for the mere maintenance of the operability of the mobile station.
According to the FCS and the Attorney General's Office in their reports and opinions submitted to this GT1, it is often necessary to know the link between an IMEI and the IMSI. That is, which SIM card (IMSI) is being used in a specific physical terminal (IMEI) and vice versa, which specific mobile (IMEI) is being used to activate a specific SIM.
In the first case, the IMEI is known, the physical device, and the IMSI (which is integrated into the SIM) is sought; and in the second case, the IMSI is known, and it is desired to know which device uses it, that is, the IMEI.
Well, in this scenario, it is advisable to analyze the information that operators store and manage regarding this link, against which, in general, two situations arise:
A) The first is when the operator provides the SIM card, which as indicated also contains the IMSI, and is going to provide the telecommunications service, and also provides the physical device, which contains the IMEI. In colloquial terms, the company gives the user both the mobile and the SIM card.
In these cases, the operator will have information about the customer and the service (identification, bank account, address, and communications made for the corresponding billing, etc.), and in what is of interest here, will have the IMEI of the device to which the SIM card (IMSI) was associated. That is, it will have all the information related to the c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
6
Legal Office
regarding the "link between an IMEI and an IMSI" previously mentioned.
B) The second situation is one in which the operator provides the SIM card, but does not provide the physical device, as the card can be used in any compatible terminal sold by another operator or by another entity even unrelated to telecommunications services. Therefore, the operator receiving the request from the law enforcement agencies (FCS) or the Public Prosecutor's Office is unaware of the IMEI related to the mobile device in which the aforementioned card is being used, as it is not recorded in their customer database, unlike in the first case.
It is this second situation that, in practice, according to the FCS, is causing problems due to the reluctance of operators to provide such information regarding the link between an IMEI and an IMSI.
Indeed, as stated in Opinion 1/19, operators claim that to locate and provide that information, it must be done based on the records derived from the connections to the network made from that device, "at which point the operator can capture not only the IMSI of the card but also the identifying IMEI of the physical terminal used as support. Therefore, as stated by the operators, to respond to the request from the police bodies - or, if applicable, from the Public Prosecutor's Office - it would be essential to carry out the appropriate search in the databases where the traffic generated by that mobile line is stored, requiring prior judicial authorization for access to them as mandated by Law 25/2007 of October 18 on the retention of data from electronic communications."
In contrast, the aforementioned Opinion 1/19, after conducting a thorough analysis of the application of Article 588 ter m) of the LECrim and the non-application of Law 25/2007 of October 18 to this type of information, indicates that "the manner in which communication operators decide to control/store these data cannot, under any circumstances, imply a modification of the legal regime applicable to them and, consequently, of the conditions for their acquisition to the extent that such circumstance determines the need for prior judicial authorization." (...) It should not be forgotten that communication operators do not require judicial authorization to access the information they retain, for which they are responsible, but that such prior authorization is only required and unavoidable, in accordance with Article 1 of the aforementioned Law 25/2007, for the transfer of such data to agents authorized by the communication operators.
That is to say, the judicial authorization is not intended to allow consultation of the databases to those responsible for the storage and retention of the information but to ensure that the delivery of protected data to third parties only occurs in those cases where the competent judicial authority deems it appropriate and under the conditions agreed upon by it. From that perspective, it matters little, for the purposes at hand, where the requested data is stored but only what its character and content are in order to assess whether its delivery by the communication operators or service providers can be made directly to the requesters or requires judicial authorization. (...)
On the other hand, the General Directorate of Telecommunications, in the reports submitted within the framework of the GT, understands, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the CJEU, that national legislation allows for the preventive retention of data related to civil identity in order to safeguard national security, combat crime, and protect public safety, and therefore, that the retention of data related to the civil identity of users of electronic communications systems can be general without requiring Member States to limit the retention period.
It adds that, however, Law 25/2007 of October 18 does not contain any clear and precise rule regarding the scope and application of the measure in relation to the case of duplicate SIM cards and, therefore, would hardly meet the proportionality criterion that, according to the Court of Justice, requires that the national norm be a specific norm of national legislation.
III
It should be noted in advance that Law 25/2007 of October 18 is the result of the transposition of Directive 2006/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of March 15, 2006, on the retention of data generated or processed in relation to the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks and by which Directive 2002/58/EC is amended, which was annulled by the Judgment of the CJEU of April 8, 2014, Case C-293/2012, for considering that the Union legislator exceeded the limits.
Legal Office
which demands respect for the principle of proportionality in relation to Articles 7, 8, and 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter (LCEur 2000, 3480) fundamentally based on the following considerations:
It treats all individuals, electronic communications, and data related to traffic in a generalized manner without establishing any differentiation, limitation, or exception based on the objective of combating serious crimes. (paragraphs 57 and 58)
It does not establish any objective criteria that would guarantee that the competent national authorities can access only the data and can use it to prevent, detect, or prosecute criminal offenses that, due to the magnitude and seriousness of the interference with the fundamental rights in question, can be considered sufficiently serious to justify such interference, but rather:
a. It makes a general reference to "serious crimes" defined by each Member State in its internal legal system. (paragraph 59)
b. It does not define the material and procedural conditions under which the competent national authorities can access the data and subsequently use it. (paragraph 60)
c. Access to the data is not subject to prior control by a judicial body or an autonomous administrative agency. (paragraph 62)
It establishes a data retention period ranging from six to twenty-four months, without determining a distinction between categories of data based on the individuals affected or the potential usefulness of the data concerning the pursued objective. (paragraphs 63 and 64)
It does not establish sufficient guarantees to ensure effective protection of the data against the risks of abuse and against any unlawful access and use of the data. (paragraph 66)
It does not require that the data be retained within the territory of the Union, thus failing to fully guarantee the control of compliance with protection and security requirements. (paragraph 68)
Notwithstanding the above, Law 25/2007 of October 18 remains in force and is fully applicable, as the invalidity of the Directive should not be transferred, ipso iure, to the transposition norm, with the competent bodies for its application being those that must interpret its compliance with community and/or national law, and especially with the principle of proportionality that, in the words of the CJEU, has been violated.
Furthermore, Law 57/2007 of October 18, unlike the annulled Directive, precisely establishes judicial control over access to the information that is subject to protection, so that "proportionality judgment" is presumed to be intrinsic to the judicial authorization in question for the specific case—as can be inferred from Chapters IV and V, Title VIII of Book II of the LECrim—and therefore, the respect or necessary interference in the right to data protection and the privacy of the affected individuals will have already been assessed.
Regarding the "validity of Law 25/2007" after the annulment of the Directive, the Supreme Court in Judgment No. 727/2020 of March 23 states:
To this end, we must make a first observation. The fact that the invalidity of Directive 2006/24/EC has been declared does not mean that the national transposition laws that developed it in each country follow the same fate.
A Directive is an instrument for harmonizing national legislations but allows for margins of discretion. So much so that concerning data retention, the legislations of each Member State show notable differences. Hence, once the national norm is in force, if it respects Union law, it has autonomy from the Directive that justifies its existence and can only be repealed by a subsequent norm. Certainly, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the Union are binding, but regarding this case, the judgments just cited do not inevitably entail the nullity of Law 25/2007, but rather require an analysis of whether the data retention regime in Spain, whose regulation is not limited to the cited law, is in accordance with Union law.
A second observation is necessary. At this moment, the European Union, once Directive 2006/24/EC has been annulled, lacks an instrument for harmonizing national legislations. The absence of a community norm requires focusing attention on the doctrine of the CJEU, and we cannot fail to highlight that each new ruling from the high court, as we have tried to summarize previously, adds nuances, establishes exceptions, designs new...
Legal Office
requirements and modulations, establishing doctrines that add and accumulate normative concepts that increase their legal complexity. And so much so that the TJUE itself has largely shifted the problem of the legality of the norm to the evidentiary validity of the information obtained from the data retained due to the requirements of national regulations, which, in our opinion, shows that the high court is aware of the complexity of the situation created as a consequence of its own doctrine and, above all, of the absence of a regulatory framework that provides the necessary legal certainty to this complex matter.

As we have been commenting, in Spain this matter is regulated by Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the retention of data related to electronic communications and public communications networks, whose declared purpose in the Explanatory Memorandum was enacted with the aim of transposing Directive 2006/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of March 15 into domestic law.

This Law has been confirmed in its validity by two subsequent laws: Law 9/2014, of May 9, General Telecommunications Law, and Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights, which in their respective articles 42 and 52 refer to Law 25/2007 in all matters concerning the retention and transfer of data for the purposes of detecting, investigating, and prosecuting serious crimes. Therefore, the Legislator has not only not doubted the legality of the referenced law but has expressly confirmed it in the two subsequent laws, precisely the laws that have established the basic regulation in this normative area.

The annulment of Directive 2006/24/EC could lead us to consider the Spanish implementing law null, but such automatism is not admissible. The Directive in question was not annulled for a single reason. The TJUE conducted a thorough overall analysis and detected various deficiencies or the absence of various controls that conferred a laxity to the community norm, resulting in the absence of sufficient protection of the affected fundamental rights. The interaction of those deficiencies is what motivated the declaration of nullity.

Thus, factors such as the following were analyzed: a) Generalized impact on all persons without direct or indirect connection to criminal actions; b) Absence of temporal or geographical limits linking retention to specific criminal acts or allowing contribution to the prevention, detection, or prosecution of serious crimes; c) Lack of precision regarding the persons who may have access to and subsequent use of the data; d) Absence of objective criteria regarding the subsequent use of the data to what is strictly necessary, without subordinating it to prior judicial control or that of an independent autonomous body; e) Absence of objective criteria for the transfer to be strictly limited to the purposes of prevention and detection of serious crimes; f) Establishment of a single retention period without distinction between the category of data; g) Lack of a high level of protection and security of the retained data, through technical and organizational measures, against abuses and unlawful access, and that guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of the data.

If we conduct that analysis in the Spanish regulations, it can be verified that a large part of the deficiencies noted in the annulled Directive do not occur in our legal system. We highlight, in this regard, the following notes:
(i) Spanish law requires the retention of traffic and location data for one year and allows its transfer to judicial authorities, although that transfer is subject to strict guarantees.
(ii) Service providers obligated by law to retain data cannot carry out any processing operations, except for the specific transfer that may be requested by the judicial authority.

This is important because the doctrine of the TJUE has had as its essential purpose the protection of the rights to privacy, data protection, and freedom of expression, to the point that in its rulings it has insisted that the retained data "considered as a whole, can allow for very precise conclusions about the private life of the individuals whose data has been retained, such as daily habits, places of permanent or temporary residence, daily movements or others, activities carried out, their social relationships, and the social media they frequent" (TJUE Grand Chamber ruling of April 8, 2014 (CJEU 2014, 104) - Case Digital Rights- 27).
Legal Office
Spanish law does not generate that risk. The data retained remains safeguarded and can only be used for its transfer to the judicial authority when ordered under a rigorous system of guarantees. Certainly, the retention of data and the obligation to transfer it is in itself "data processing," and this has been reiterated by the CJEU in several of its rulings to affirm the competence of community law on this matter. However, it cannot be overlooked that those obligated by Law 25/2007 are only required and allowed to store the data, but are not authorized to carry out any of the processing operations that could be particularly harmful to the rights intended to be safeguarded. Therefore, providers cannot structure, select, disclose, transmit, combine, or use that data for criminal investigation purposes.

(iii) Data retention can only be transferred for the detection, investigation, and prosecution of serious crimes contemplated in the Penal Code or in special laws (Article 1.1), a provision that previously had to be integrated by referring to Articles 13.1 and 33.1 of the Penal Code and currently by referring to Article 579.1 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which only authorizes such intrusions in crimes punishable by at least three years of imprisonment, in terrorism offenses, and in crimes committed by criminal groups or organizations.

(iv) The data that must be retained are those necessary to trace and identify the origin and destination of a communication, the type of communication, and the communication equipment of the users (Article 3.1), but under no circumstances can data that reveals the content of the communication be retained (Article 3.2).

(v) Data can only be transferred with prior judicial authorization (Article 6.1), and the judicial resolution authorizing the transfer must be reasoned and comply with the principles of necessity and proportionality, specifying the data to be transferred (Article 7.2). This guarantee is essential, and many legislations of the States of the Union authorized transfers to non-judicial authorities.

(vi) The transfer is limited to its use in criminal investigations for serious crimes (Article 7) and cannot be retained or transferred for purposes other than criminal investigation, as has occurred in other legislations, nor for the investigation of minor offenses.

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
13

                                                             Legal Office
(vii) Data can only be transferred to specially authorized agents, identified as members of the State Security Forces, Customs Surveillance Agents, and agents of the CNI, and must be limited to essential information (Article 6.2);

(viii) The law imposes a whole set of obligations on obligated subjects to guarantee the integrity, security, quality, and confidentiality of the data in Article 8 and establishes a regime of sanctions in case of non-compliance (Article 11). Additionally, there is a whole regulatory development that details the technical specifications regarding the transfer of operators to the agents (Order PRE/199/2013, of January 29, which must in any case be limited to what is strictly necessary). The Spanish law provides for a medium level of security for this type of files, which guarantees the confidentiality of the stored data (Article 81.4 of Royal Decree 1720/2007, of December 21, on Data Protection Regulation).

(ix) The Criminal Procedure Law has made a complete regulation of telephone and telematic interventions, including the use of data retained by legal obligation (Article 588 ter j), subjecting all of them to strict judicial control in their adoption and execution, applying the principles of suitability, exceptionality, necessity, and proportionality. 

It is worth noting that the use of stored data is subject to strict limitations contained in Articles 588 bis a) and subsequent of the Criminal Procedure Code, among which we highlight:

(i) The use of data is subject to the principle of specialty, so that it can only be authorized when the intrusion is related to a specific crime.

(ii) Prospective intrusions cannot be authorized, that is, those aimed at preventing or discovering crimes indiscriminately or without objective basis.

(iii) The intrusion must define its objective and subjective scope according to the principle of suitability.

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
14
Legal Office
(iv) The interference is also subject to the principles of exceptionalism and necessity and can only be agreed upon if there are no other less burdensome measures and only when it is essential. Therefore, it is true that many of the regulatory deficits of the Directive annulled by the CJEU do not occur in our national legal framework, as it establishes sufficient guarantees so that personal data retained by legal obligation is adequately protected against the risk of illegal abuse, both in relation to access to that data and in its use. And that is the reason why this Chamber, in previous rulings, has considered that our legal framework regarding the retention and transfer of data is in accordance with Union law. (...)

Taking the above into account, the proportionality assessment will not only derive from the Law 25/2007 of October 18 itself, but must also be understood as completed with the indications that the LECrim provides for access to information considered traffic data - linked to a specific communication - and to those necessary to proceed with the subsequent interception of communications, and also for those that simply seek the identification of users outside of a specific communication process. (Article 588 ter m LECrim) 

This is evident from Article 588 bis, which under the heading "Guiding Principles" inaugurates Chapter IV referred to "Common Provisions for the Interception of Telephone and Telematic Communications," indicating that: 
1. During the instruction of the cases, any of the investigative measures regulated in this chapter may be agreed upon, provided that there is judicial authorization issued with full adherence to the principles of specialty, suitability, exceptionalism, necessity, and proportionality of the measure. 
(...) 
5. The investigative measures regulated in this chapter will only be deemed proportional when, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the sacrifice of the affected rights and interests is not greater than the benefit resulting from their adoption for the public interest and that of third parties. For the weighing of conflicting interests, the assessment of the public interest will be based on the seriousness of the fact, its social significance or the technological scope of production, the intensity of the existing indications, and the relevance of the result pursued with the restriction of the right. 

That said, Directive 2002/58/EC of July 12, 2002, concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector, establishes in its Article 15.1 under the heading "Application of Certain Provisions of Directive 95/46/EC" the following: 
1. Member States may adopt legal measures to limit the scope of the rights and obligations established in Articles 5 and 6, in paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 8, and in Article 9 of this Directive, when such limitation constitutes a necessary, proportionate, and appropriate measure in a democratic society to protect national security (i.e., the security of the State), defense, public security, or the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of crimes or the unauthorized use of the electronic communications system referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 13 of Directive 95/46/EC. To this end, Member States may adopt, among others, legislative measures under which data is retained for a limited period justified by the reasons established in this paragraph. All measures contemplated in this paragraph must comply with the general principles of Community law, including those mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union. 

Well then, regarding the regulations of the Member States that enable or allow access to personal data generated in the context of electronic communications, European jurisprudence has upheld the following doctrine: 
First, it is worth citing the CJEU ruling dated 03/02/2021 in Case C-746/18: 
34 In particular, it has been stated that legislative measures concerning the processing of data related to the civil identity of users of electronic communications media as such, particularly regarding their retention and access to them, with the sole objective of identifying the user in question, and without such data being linked to information regarding the communications made, may be justified by the objective of preventing, 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
16
Legal Office
to investigate, discover, and prosecute
 
 crimes in general
 
 , referred to in
Article 15, paragraph 1, first sentence, of Directive 2002/58. Indeed, such data do not, on their own, allow for the knowledge of the date, time, duration, and recipients of the communications made, nor the places where these communications took place or the frequency of the same with certain individuals over a specified period of time, which means they do not provide, aside from the coordinates of the users of electronic communication means, such as their addresses, any information about the transmitted communications and, consequently, about their private life. Thus, the interference represented by a measure concerning these data cannot, in principle, be classified as serious (…)
42. In the absence of Union rules on the matter, it is up to the internal legal system of each Member State, by virtue of the principle of procedural autonomy, to configure the procedural regulation of the remedies aimed at ensuring the safeguarding of the rights conferred on litigants by Union Law, provided, however, that it is not less favorable than that which governs similar internal situations (principle of equivalence) and that it does not make the exercise of the rights conferred by Union Law practically impossible or excessively difficult (principle of effectiveness) - 
For its part, the CJEU ruling dated 10/6/2020 in Cases C-511/18, C-512/18, and C-520/18 states the following:
140. Regarding the objective of prevention, investigation, discovery, and prosecution of crimes, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, only the fight against serious crime and the prevention of serious threats to public security can justify serious interferences with the fundamental rights enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter, such as those implied by the retention of traffic data and location data. Consequently, only interferences with such fundamental rights that do not present a serious character can be justified by the objective of prevention, investigation, discovery, and prosecution of crimes in general. (…)
157. Lastly, concerning the data relating to the civil identity of users of electronic communication means, such data do not, on their own, allow for the knowledge of the date, time, duration, and recipients of the communications made, nor the places where these communications took place or the frequency of the same with certain individuals over a specified period of time, which means they do not provide, aside from the coordinates of these, such as their addresses, any information about the transmitted communications and, consequently, about their private life. Thus, the interference represented by the retention of these data cannot, in principle, be classified as serious.
158. It follows that, in accordance with what is stated in paragraph 140 of this judgment, legislative measures concerning the processing of these data as such, in particular regarding their retention and access to them with the sole objective of identifying the user in question, and without such data being able to be linked to information regarding the communications made, may be justified by the objective of preventing, investigating, discovering, and prosecuting crimes in general, as referred to in Article 15, paragraph 1, first sentence, of Directive 2002/58 (see, in this regard, the judgment of October 2, 2018, Public Prosecutor, C-207/16, EU:C:2018:788, paragraph 62). Finally, the CJEU ruling dated 10/2/2018 in Case C-207/16 states the following:
“the access of public authorities to data that allows for the identification of the holders of SIM cards activated with a stolen mobile phone, such as the names, surnames, and, where applicable, the addresses of such holders, constitutes an interference with the fundamental rights of these individuals, enshrined in the aforementioned articles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which does not present such gravity that this access should be limited, in the context of prevention, investigation, discovery, and prosecution of crimes, to the fight against serious crime.”
From the reading of the judgments, it is deduced that the identification of users of telecommunications services outside of a specific communication process is not considered a serious interference with privacy and should not be limited solely to the prosecution of serious crimes, and therefore the legislative measures regulating such access are presumed to be in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
Legal Office
Well, for these purposes, it must be taken into account that in Article 588 ter m) of the Criminal Procedure Act (LECrim) under the heading "Identification of holders or terminals or connectivity devices," the following is established:
When, in the exercise of their functions, the Public Prosecutor or the Judicial Police need to know the ownership of a telephone number or any other means of communication, or, conversely, require the telephone number or identifying data of any means of communication, they may directly contact the telecommunications service providers, access providers to a telecommunications network, or information society service providers, who will be obliged to comply with the request, under the warning of incurring in the crime of disobedience.
The provision may apply to those requests for information that are not necessarily linked to a specific communication process. Consider, for example, an advertisement in which the means of contact is a telephone line and there are indications that the sale of items resulting from the commission of crimes is being promoted, or a job offer in which the contact number is essential to pursue a crime against workers' rights. Or as in the case presented, where it is intended to know the ownership of the physical device - who is behind an IMEI - in which a duplicate of a card has been inserted, based on an IMSI, and a connection - which is not communication - has occurred between said device and the network.
In these cases, the request would not be linked to a specific communication process and therefore, as recalled in paragraph 34 of the CJEU ruling dated 2/03/2021, the knowledge of these identification data does not, by itself, allow for the understanding of aspects of the private life of their holders.
It should be noted that the aforementioned provision was introduced by the amendment made by Organic Law 13/2015, of October 5, amending the Criminal Procedure Act to strengthen procedural guarantees and regulate technological investigation measures, in whose Explanatory Memorandum it is stated:
In the investigation of certain criminal acts, the incorporation into the process of electronic traffic data or associated data may prove to be of decisive importance. The reform adopts the criterion established by Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the retention of data related to electronic communications and public communications networks, and imposes the requirement of judicial authorization for its transfer to authorized agents, provided that it concerns data linked to communication processes. Its incorporation into the process is only authorized when it concerns the investigation of a crime that, for reasons related to the principle of proportionality, justifies the sacrifice of the inviolability of communications. A specific legal treatment is given to police access to the IMSI, IMEI, IP address, and other identifying elements of a specific card or terminal, in accordance with already established jurisprudence of the Supreme Court on this matter. The case of the transfer of data unrelated to communication processes concerning the ownership or identification of an electronic device is also regulated, which may be accessed by the Public Prosecutor or the Judicial Police in the exercise of their functions without the need for judicial authorization.
As can be seen, the legislative reform follows the criterion established by Law 25/2007 of October 18, regarding the requirement of judicial authorization for information linked to a communication process. See Articles 588 ter j to l of the LECrim, which regulate access to certain information prior to the request for interception of communication and for access to traffic data.
Therefore, in accordance with the above, the application of Law 25/2007 and the provisions of the LECrim coexist and complement each other to ensure the application of the principle of proportionality.
It should also be added that regarding the need for special law that may arise from the CJEU ruling that annulled Directive 2006/24/EC, it must be taken into account that the provisions of the LECrim that apply to these cases have been introduced by an Organic Law that addresses, by reason of the subject matter and specialty, those concessions in the right to privacy of users of telecommunications services. All this in accordance with paragraph 42 of the CJEU ruling of 2/03/2021 (and therefore subsequent to the CJEU ruling that annulled the Directive) which refers to the procedural regulations of each Member State of the Union to regulate this matter in the absence of European regulations to that effect.
Furthermore, it should be indicated that the information related to the IMSI, the IMEI, or the IP address whose access and processing are regulated by the preceding articles of the LECrim (588 ter K and I) foresee access to such information with the purpose of subsequently proceeding to the interception of communications, a matter.
Legal Office
that does not have to occur in all cases, such as those in which one seeks to know the identification of who is behind a certain IMSI or IMEI without linkage to a specific communication process, but rather to a connection process between the device and the telecommunications network, for which the authority provided in Article 588 ter m) would be used. In this regard, it is appropriate to cite what is indicated in Circular 2/2019 of March 6, on the interception of telephone and telematic communications from the Attorney General's Office (Circular 2/2019 FGE), which states:

Moreover, the vast majority of cases in which the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police could make use of this authority may not even relate to the preparation of a subsequent intervention of communications. Consequently, this authority should not be understood as limited to the cases of interception of communications contemplated in Article 588 ter a.

From the above, it must be concluded that access by the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office to certain information about electronic communications held by the operators providing telecommunications services must, in any case, respect the principle of proportionality, and that sometimes it will be the judge who must authorize a specific measure who will be responsible for the proportionality assessment, and in cases where such authorization is not necessary, it will be the legislator who is presumed to have considered this aspect.

Therefore, it is not invalidating, as has been asserted within the GT1 created for this purpose, that Law 25/2007 of October 18 does not expressly regulate access to certain information for the specific prosecution of SIM Swap frauds, but rather it will be the interpretation of all circumstances and the applicable norm to the specific case that will provide us with whether the specific measure exceeds the proportionality test referred to by both the CJEU ruling that annulled Directive 2006/24/EC (CJEU ruling of April 8, 2014, Case C-293/2012) and the other rulings just cited, as well as the provisions of the LECrim itself from which compliance with the principle of proportionality is derived, and whose legitimization is also derived from paragraph 42 of the CJEU ruling 2/03/2021 that refers to national procedural regulations in the absence of applicable community norms.

Above all, if one takes into account that such requests for information may not be linked to a specific communication process, which would mean that the aforementioned Law 25/2007 of October 18 would not apply.

                                                             Legal Office
IV
Having laid out the essential terms of the issue under analysis, it is necessary to address the legal regime applicable to the data contained in the information requested by the FCS and the Public Prosecutor's Office from the operators to investigate SIM Swapping.

As a starting point, the concepts of “communication,” “traffic data,” and “subscriber or identification data” must be addressed, as they will determine the application of different legal regimes.

Regarding “communication,” Article 2 of Directive 2002/58/EC indicates that it refers to any information exchanged or conveyed between a finite number of parties through a publicly available electronic communications service. The present definition does not include information conveyed as part of a broadcasting service to the public through an electronic communications network, except to the extent that the information may relate to the identifiable subscriber or user receiving the information;

Now, in the aforementioned communication, there will be two parties, one being the sender and the other the receiver, but this concept must be restricted to communication processes between human beings and not when one of them is a machine.

Indeed, the transmission of signals between entities of an impersonal nature is not the same as communication between people (holders of subjective rights). 

As mentioned earlier, a webpage hosting a fraudulent advertisement and the investigation of the IP address of the server hosting the page, or a webpage with content protected by copyright or containing child pornography and monitoring the user who accessed the content. In these cases, the communication between their device or terminal and the server hosting those webpages will be investigated, and thus the communication by the entity safeguarding the data would not require judicial authorization as it does not affect a communicative process.

A similar nature can be attributed to the connection between a device, for example, a mobile phone and the telecommunications network, which occurs when the former is turned on, as we are not dealing with a communication in the indicated terms.
Legal Office
Article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution protects the secrecy of communications, and although it does not form part of the content, data relating to the time, duration, or destination of the communication are also covered by this fundamental right. Hence, the applicable regulations require judicial authorization for their acquisition (Article 7.2 of Law 25/2007 and certain provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act).

Indeed, when a communication is established through telematic means, in addition to its content, data regarding the origin, destination, and route of the communication are also generated, as well as other data necessary for the provision and billing of the service by the operator. These will be considered as "traffic data." Thus, the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime, dated November 23, 2001, ratified by Spain through the Instrument of September 17, 2010, defines them in its Article 1.d) as any computer data related to a communication by means of a computer system, generated by a computer system as part of the communication chain, indicating the origin, destination, route, time, date, size, and duration of the communication or the type of underlying service.

For its part, Directive 2002/58/EC considers "Traffic Data" to be any data processed for the purpose of conducting a communication through an electronic communications network or for billing purposes; that is, information about the origin and destination of the communication that does not constitute the content of the message, but rather its trajectory is what will be known as traffic data.

And, thirdly, regarding "subscriber or user identification data," these will be those available to the operator to enable the provision of the service and ultimately the execution of the contract between the operator and the recipient of the service. 

Well, this information will also "accompany" the traffic data in each communication, but it can also be obtained independently of the mere existence of the communication, since in some cases, the operator already has it, and in others, for example, when a device connects to the network where operators can capture information (IMSI and IMEI) from which the identity of the subscriber can be obtained.

The aforementioned Convention on Cybercrime in its Article 18.3 considers "subscriber data" to be:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
23

                                                             Legal Office
(...) all information, in the form of computer data or any other form, that a service provider possesses and is related to subscribers to such services, excluding data about traffic or content, and that allows determining:
a) The type of communication service used, the technical arrangements adopted in this regard, and the service period;
b) The identity, postal or geographical address, and telephone number of the subscriber, as well as any other access number or information regarding billing and payment that is available based on a contract or service provision agreement;
c) Any other information related to the location of the communication equipment, available based on a contract or service agreement.

As previously indicated, it can be inferred from the provision that subscriber data will be those that the operator, as a party to the telecommunications service contract, will have for the correct provision of the same. And among those must also be included those referred to a specific request for a duplicate SIM card, as it is a necessary element for the provision of that service.

This differentiation has been addressed by Circular 2/2019 of March 6 from the Attorney General's Office, which states the following:
When determining which data are linked to communication processes and which are not, a distinction is usually made between dynamic data and static data. The former are those generated during a communication process, while the latter are stored in the databases of communication service providers to enable those communications, but are not generated as a result of a specific communication. This same conclusion is reached by the definition of traffic data provided in Article 1.d of the Convention on Cybercrime, which states that traffic data "shall mean any computer data relating to a communication by means of a computer system, generated by a computer system as part of the communication chain, indicating the origin, destination, route, time, date, size, and duration of the communication or the type of underlying service."
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
24
Legal Office
The debate regarding the need for judicial authorization, however, is no longer about determining which data affects the fundamental right to the secrecy of communications. In light of the new regulation of the LECrim, two categories of data can now be distinguished: those linked to a communication process, whose incorporation into the process will be governed by what is provided in Article 588 ter j (except for the IP address in the cases provided for in Article 588 ter k), and the rest of the traffic data, not linked to communication processes, among which the legislator has highlighted, in Articles 588 ter l and m, the IMSI and IMEI numbers and the identification data of the holder of telephone numbers or the numbers corresponding to a holder. 
In the same vein, the Judgment of the Supreme Court of March 18, 2010, No. 247/2010, makes a similar distinction, referring to the fact that one thing is the data that affects the secrecy of communications and another is those that, without being related to a specific communication process, are treated as static data by the operators: 
“We distinguish therefore two concepts: 
a) External or traffic personal data that refer to a specific communication and contribute to revealing all or part of the secret protected by Article 18-3 of the Spanish Constitution (C.E. EDL 1978/3879): 
b) Personal data or circumstances relating to the intimacy of a person (Article 18-1 C.E. EDL 1978/3879), but autonomous or disconnected from any communication, which will fall within the right to the protection of computer data or habeas data of Article 18-4 C.E. EDL 1978/3879 that cannot compromise a communication process. 
From this dichotomous perspective, the absolute equating of all types of traffic or external data or the inclusion of all of them within the right to the secrecy of communications would entail a genuine misinterpretation of the problem, as it would incorporate into the scope of constitutional protection of Article 18-3, circumstances whose legal treatment should not be separated from that which is afforded to the protection of data or the right to informational self-determination of Article 18-4 C.E. EDL 1978/3879 (see, among others, S.T.S. No. 249 of May 20, 2008 EDJ 2008/90719).”
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25

                                                             Legal Office
As can be seen, the differentiating element will be whether the data is linked to a communication process or not, and the legal consequences will be that the former will be under the protection of Article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution, Law 25/2007, and certain provisions of the LECrim, while the latter will be those subject to protection under Article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution and the legal regime of the right to the protection of personal data.
V
Traditionally, the jurisprudential doctrine regarding the IMSI and the IMEI focused on whether judicial authorization was necessary for their capture or knowledge, and therefore whether they were framed within the communication process. The Supreme Court Judgments No. 249/08, of May 20, and 460/2011 of May 25, came to admit that judicial authorization was not necessary to capture or know the IMSI or the IMEI and that their treatment by the law enforcement agencies was in accordance with Article 22 of the now repealed LOPD.
However, it was also argued that in order to request from the operator the identity of the holder of the IMSI or the IMEI, such judicial authorization was necessary as indicated by Law 25/2007, of October 18, which protects “traffic data,” that is, linked to a specific communication process.
In this regard, Article 588 ter j of the LECrim under the heading “Data contained in automated files of service providers” states that 
1. The electronic data retained by service providers or persons facilitating communication in compliance with legislation on the retention of data related to electronic communications or on their own initiative for commercial or other reasons and that are linked to communication processes, may only be transferred for incorporation into the process with judicial authorization.
2. When knowledge of such data is indispensable for the investigation, authorization will be requested from the competent judge to obtain the information contained in the automated files of the service providers, including cross-referenced or intelligent data searches, provided that the nature of the data to be known and the reasons justifying the transfer are specified.
As can be observed, it is a necessary condition for the application of the provision that the data “is linked to a communication process.”
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
26
Legal Office
communication.” This is interpreted to mean that, conversely, when they are not, they may be obtained under another legal provision, such as that provided in the aforementioned article 588 ter m).

Indeed, in the present case, the request for judicial authorization may not be required, as the requests that the FCS and/or the Prosecutor's Office make to the operators regarding the “link between the IMSI and the IMEI” and that require an identification process would not refer to a specific process of interpersonal communication, but rather, it could be deduced from a connection process between the device (to which the IMEI corresponds and which houses an IMSI) and the relevant telephone network.

That is to say, the requested data would be those derived from the very contracting and provision of the service and in particular from the “connection” to the network of the device in which a specific SIM card is used (which is the one that provides us with the IMSI), meaning that they are generated ex ante and independently of the existence of communication.

In this regard, the aforementioned Circular 2/2019, dated March 6 from the FGE, indicates that:

Regarding the specific data that can be collected directly by the Prosecutor's Office or by the Judicial Police, the provision is not exhausted simply in obtaining the ownership of a phone number or, conversely, in obtaining the specific phone number used by a person, but must be understood to include any request for data aimed at identifying the holder or the communication device, as long as it does not involve data linked to communication processes.

This would include, for example, cases of requesting the IMSI associated with a specific electronic device, in order to determine who the user of that electronic device is.

This situation has been raised with some frequency in cases of mobile phone theft in order to identify the person who had it in their possession by identifying the IMSI of the SIM card that was being used by the phone's user. The IMSI, in these cases, cannot be considered as a traffic data and, therefore, linked to a communication process, since it is not generated as a consequence of a specific communication, but rather, in the words of the Supreme Court ruling No. 249/2008, dated May 20, it is an identification code for each mobile telephone device that serves to enable that identification through GSM and UMTS networks; consequently, it can easily be framed within the concept of “identifying data of a communication medium,” as used in article 588 ter m. It is, therefore, a different situation from that regulated in article 588 ter l in which, as previously analyzed, it will be necessary to obtain judicial authorization to relate that IMSI to other data that enable the identification of the user.

Regarding the treatment of the IMSI and the IMEI in relation to the application of article 588 ter m) of the Criminal Procedure Law, ordinary courts have ruled, as evidenced by the Judgment of the Provincial Court of Barcelona No. 390/2019, dated May 30, which states:

“However, the identity of the holder of the SIM card, or in other words, the identity of the holder of the phone number associated with that card does not constitute traffic data derived from telephone communications nor a data that affects the communication itself. 

There is no doubt that it constitutes personal data related to the intimacy of the person protected under article 18.1 of the Spanish Constitution.

But as the Constitutional Court has had the opportunity to express, not every interference in the fundamental right to privacy is covered by the absolute reserve of prior judicial resolution, as occurs in the field of telephone, electronic, or telegraphic communications (article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution); and although on occasions the High Court has demanded the requirement of prior judicial resolution, “it is no less true that we have only required such a decision 'as a general rule' (STC 71/2002, of April 3, FJ 10 a)]. Indeed, we have pointed out that, “unlike what happens with other restrictive measures of fundamental rights that can be adopted during the criminal process (such as entry and search in a home under article 18.2 of the Spanish Constitution or the intervention of communications under article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution), regarding the restrictions of the right to privacy (article 18.1 of the Spanish Constitution) there is no absolute reserve of prior judicial resolution in the Constitution” (SSTC 234/1997, of December 18 (RTC 1997, 234), FJ 9, in fine; 70/2002, of April 3, FJ 10.b.3; in the same sense, STC 207/1996, of December 16 FJ 4 c)].

Thus, to the extent that no reservation of judicial resolution is established in article 18.1 of the Spanish Constitution, as we have pointed out on other occasions, “it is not constitutionally required that it be the Judge who must authorize this limiting measure, being able to adopt it, as long as a law expressly enables it, the authority that, by reason of the...
Legal Office
"the matter in question, shall be the competent one" (STC 234/1997, of December 18, FJ 9, in fine)".

The legislator, following the previous doctrine, has regulated by law the manner of obtaining the information corresponding to the identity of the holder of a certain telephone, providing that in cases where, in the exercise of their functions, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police need to know the ownership of a telephone number or any other means of communication, or, conversely, require the telephone number or identifying data of any means of communication, they may directly address the telecommunications service providers, access to a telecommunications network or information society services, who will be obliged to comply with the request, under the warning of incurring the crime of disobedience (art. 588 ter m LECrim)".

In the same sense, the Judgment of the Provincial Court of Ciudad Real No. 191/2019 of October 31 establishes the following in relation to the consideration of the IMEI and the specific purpose of knowing who activated a SIM card (…) However, the identity of the holder of the SIM card, or in other words, the identity of the holder of the telephone number associated with the IMEI, does not constitute a traffic data derived from telephone communications nor a data that affects the communication itself. (…) for the purposes that are of interest here, it was only necessary to determine who activated the terminal at the time, which was sufficient (…).

Regarding the provision of identifying data of the IMEI or the IMSI, the aforementioned ANNEX I of Opinion 1/19 indicates that 
It could therefore be considered that the knowledge of an IMSI or IMEI data by the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police, under the conditions established in art. 588 ter m, would not imply any interference in the secrecy of communications nor would it be affected by art. 6 of Law 25/2007, as long as it is presented by the operator to the authorized agents dissociated from any communication process to which that data is linked, and despite the fact that the operator has specified accessing its own preserved data records to extract such information and provide it already dissociated.

Finally, it should also be indicated that in the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007 of October 18, referred to "Telephone services through prepaid cards", in summary, the creation of a 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
29

                                                             Legal Office
register (registration book) with identifying information about the holders of prepaid cards and the obligation to communicate it to the authorized agents when required, without any mention of the need to obtain a judicial order is established:
1. Mobile telephone service operators who market services with activation system through prepaid cards must maintain a registration book in which the identity of the customers who acquire a smart card with this payment modality is recorded.
Operators will inform customers, prior to the sale, of the existence and content of the register, of its availability in the terms expressed in the following number and of the rights set forth in article 38.6 of Law 32/2003.
Identification will be carried out by means of a document proving identity, recording in the registration book the name, surname, and nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the identifying document used and the nature or denomination of that document. In the case of legal entities, identification will be carried out by providing the tax identification card, and it will be recorded in the registration book the corporate name and the tax identification code.
2. From the activation of the prepaid card until the obligation of conservation referred to in article 5 of this Law ceases, operators will provide the identifying data provided in the previous section when required for the fulfillment of their purposes by the authorized agents, members of the State Security Forces and Bodies and the Police Forces of the Autonomous Communities with competence for the protection of persons and property and for the maintenance of public safety, personnel of the National Intelligence Center in the course of security investigations regarding persons or entities, as well as officials of the Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance.
3. The identifying data will be subject to the provisions of this Law, regarding the systems that guarantee their conservation, non-manipulation or illegal access, destruction, cancellation, and identification of the authorized person.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
30
Legal Office
4. Operators must provide the identifying data specified in section 1 of this provision to authorized agents, to members of the State Security Forces and Corps and to the Police Corps of the Autonomous Communities with competence for the protection of persons and property and for the maintenance of public safety, or to personnel from the National Intelligence Center, as well as to officials from the Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance, when requested by them for the purposes of investigating, detecting, and prosecuting a crime contemplated in the Penal Code or in special criminal laws. 
It should be noted that, ultimately, the aforementioned registration book contains identifying information about the holder of the services contracted or acquired through the prepaid card, as well as documentation regarding the accreditation of identity. 
This process is not much different from that which occurs when processing a request for a duplicate SIM card, in which case at least the validation of an identity will be required prior to cross-checking with some document that proves identity, in order to link an IMSI, or rather a telephone line, to a specific person. 
Therefore, the interpretation of the meaning of this additional provision in reference to the case in question, mutatis mutandi, must be that if access to the data in the prepaid card registration book (which ultimately contains identifying data) does not require judicial authorization, it is illogical for operators to express doubts about its necessity when they are required to provide information (very similar considering the purpose of the registration book) related to a process of duplicating a SIM card, which must include the documentation used, and the link between the IMSI and the IMEI. In both situations, the common denominator will be the absence of a communication process and the purpose of identifying the person to whom the service and the device are associated. 
In conclusion, it can be stated that the IMSI and the IMEI cannot, always and in every case, carry the guarantees provided by Law 25/2007 of October 18, and ultimately those related to the fundamental right to the secrecy of communications, in which case access would always require judicial authorization. Rather, as indicated in article 588 ter m) of the LECrim, access will be possible for the purposes indicated in that provision, provided that the request is not linked to a specific communication process.
VI
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
31

                                                             Legal Office
Regarding the consideration that the IMSI and the IMEI must have from the perspective of the right to data protection, it should be noted that this Agency has had the opportunity to express its opinion in various reports that are worth mentioning. 
In Report 134/2019, the following was indicated: 
(…) Reiterating that the issue has been addressed by the Working Group of Data Protection Authorities, created by article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC, it must start from Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, adopted on June 20 (document WP 136), which reminds us that it is possible to speak of the existence of personal data even in cases where there is no individualized identification of the interested party, given that: 
“(...) it should be noted that, while identification through name and surname is in practice the most common, that information may not be necessary in all cases to identify a person. This may occur when other 'identifiers' are used to individualize someone. Indeed, computerized files of personal data usually assign a unique identifier to registered persons to avoid any confusion between two persons included in the file. Also on the Internet, traffic control tools allow for easy identification of the behavior of a machine and, therefore, that of the user behind it. Thus, the different pieces that make up the personality of the individual are joined together in order to attribute certain decisions to them. Without even requesting the name and address of the person, it is possible to include them in a category, based on socioeconomic, psychological, philosophical, or other criteria, and attribute certain decisions to them since the point of contact of the individual (a computer) makes it unnecessary to know their identity in the strict sense. In other words, the possibility of identifying a person no longer necessarily equates to the ability to know their name and surname. The definition of personal data reflects this fact. (...) National data protection authorities have faced cases where the data controller claimed that only dispersed information had been processed, without references to names or other direct identifiers, and argued that the data should not be considered personal and should not be subject to data protection regulations. And yet, the processing of that information only... 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
32
Legal Office
made sense if it allowed for the identification of specific individuals and their treatment in a certain manner. In these cases, where the purpose of the processing involves the identification of persons, it can be assumed that the data controller or any other person involved has or may have means that "can be reasonably used" to identify the data subject. In fact, asserting that natural persons are not identifiable when the purpose of the processing is precisely to identify them would be a flagrant contradiction. Therefore, it must be considered that the information refers to identifiable natural persons and that the processing must be subject to data protection regulations.

And regarding the possibility of identifying the data subject, the document also recalls the following: "On the other hand, this is a dynamic test, so the degree of technological advancement at the time of processing and its possible development during the period in which the data will be processed must be taken into account. Identification may not be feasible today with the set of means that can be reasonably used at present. If it is foreseen that the data will be retained for one month, it may not be feasible to advance the identification so that it is completed within the 'lifetime' of the information and, therefore, that information should not be considered as personal data. However, if the anticipated retention period is ten years, the data controller must consider the possibility that identification could occur after nine years, at which point it would acquire the status of personal data. It is necessary for the system to be capable of adapting to technological advancements as they occur and to introduce appropriate technical and organizational measures in due time."

And more specifically in relation to the matter at hand, this opinion is distinguished in relation to mobile phone devices that allow for the location of the data subject in its Opinion 13/2011 on geolocation services in smart mobile devices (document WP185). In that document, after recalling the conclusions already reached in its previous Opinion 5/2005 (WP115), from which it follows that "since the location data obtained from base stations refers to an identified or identifiable natural person, these are subject to the provisions regarding the protection of personal data established in Directive 95/46/EC of October 24, 1995," it concludes, regarding the application of the aforementioned Directive, the following: "According to the Data Protection Directive, personal data is understood to mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (the 'data subject'); any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or one or more specific elements, characteristic of their physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity shall be considered identifiable - Article 2(a) of the Directive. Recital 26 of the Directive pays special attention to the term 'identifiable' when it states: 'considering that, to determine whether a person is identifiable, one must consider all the means that may reasonably be used by the data controller or by any other person to identify that person.'"

Recital 27 of the Directive outlines the broad scope of protection: "considering that the scope of this protection should not depend, in fact, on the techniques used, as the contrary would lead to serious risks of evasion;"

In its Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, the Working Party has provided extensive guidance on the definition of personal data.

Smart Mobile Devices
Smart mobile devices are inextricably linked to natural persons. There is usually direct and indirect identifiability. 

Firstly, telecommunications operators that provide access to mobile internet and through the GSM network typically maintain a record with the name, address, and banking details of each customer, along with various unique device numbers, such as the IMEI and IMSI. 

Secondly, the purchase of additional software for the device (such as applications or apps) usually requires a credit card number and
Legal Office
therefore enriches the combination of the unique numbers and the
location data with directly identifiable data.
Indirect identifiability can be achieved by combining the
unique numbers of the device, along with one or more
calculated locations.
Each smart mobile device has at least one unique identifier,
the MAC address. The device may have other unique
identification numbers that can be added by the operating
system developer. These identifiers can be transmitted and
processed later in the context of geolocation services. It is
true that the location of a specific device can be calculated very
precisely, especially when various geolocation infrastructures
are combined. This location can point to a home or an
employer. It is possible, especially through repeated
observations, to identify the owner of the device.
When considering the means available for identifiability,
advancements must be taken into account as people tend to
disclose more and more personal location data on the Internet,
for example, by posting the location of their home or work
along with other identifiable data. Such disclosures can also
occur without their knowledge, when others geo-tag them. Thanks
to this advancement, it becomes easier to link a location or a
pattern of behavior to a specific person.
Furthermore, according to Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of
personal data, it should be noted that a unique identifier, in the
context described above, allows for tracking a user of a specific
device and, therefore, allows for "singling out" the user even if
their true name is unknown.”
(…)
II
In the same vein as the Article 29 Working Party of Directive
1995/46/EC, this Agency has already addressed the issue in the
two reports of June 3, 2011, previously mentioned, studying a
system also based on the geolocation of customers, and noted that:
“From all the above, it seems to follow that the joint
processing of data related to a mobile terminal,
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
35

                                                             Legal Office
consisting of the TMSI (which could be likened to a
dynamic IP address), the MAC address, and the IMSI code
(which could be equated to a sort of MAC address of the
user's SIM card), involves the collection of sufficient
information to understand that such processing is
subject to the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC and, therefore,
to Organic Law 15/1999.
(…)
In summary, from what is indicated in the consultation, it does not follow that the
consultant, to a greater extent the broader their scope of action, will be able to know the three identifying data of the terminal
and the user's SIM card, as well as their consumption habits,
so that if it were possible to associate the holder with
additional information that would allow for greater identification, the
processing could undermine the guarantees of their fundamental
rights to the protection of personal data.
Thus, it would only be possible to avoid the application of
data protection legislation in the event of an absolute dissociation
of the TMS, IMSI, and MAC address data from the user's terminal
and that such information could not, in any case, be subject to
retention by the consultant; that is, a procedure of anonymization
would have to occur such that it became irreversible for the
consultant to know what data is hidden under the assigned
random number.
Consequently, the attribution of such a number should derive
from the application of an algorithm that combined the three
data points mentioned and whose application resulted in
completely irreversible outcomes, with no data from those
enumerated in the consultation being retained by the consultant,
applying the algorithm immediately upon receiving the signal
emitted by the mobile terminal.
Certainly, in that case, the consultant could still have
information regarding the behavioral habits of the mobile terminal
holder, but it would not be referenced to data that could allow
for the identification of such a user, but rather to a data point
derived from the application of an irreversible algorithm, which
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
36
Legal Office
would allow us to consider that in the proposed scenario, a dissociation procedure would have effectively been applied in the terms established in Article 3 f) of Organic Law 15/1999, which defines it as “Any processing of personal data in such a way that the information obtained cannot be associated with an identified or identifiable person.” 

That said, security measures should also be foreseen to prevent access to the information by personnel not related to the consulting party, which seems to derive from what is indicated in the inquiry and the access to the information only in an aggregated manner, as noted therein. 
(…).

This conclusion is clearly extrapolable to the current regulatory scenario, under the definitions previously transcribed, contained in the General Data Protection Regulation -GDPR- and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5 -LOPDGDD-. 

For its part, the CJEU ruling of October 19, 2016, Case C-582/14, considers that even a dynamic IP address must be regarded as personal data to the extent that the service provider has means to know the identity of the holder of that dynamic IP address. Or the more recent CJEU ruling of June 17, 2021, Case C-579/19, which in its paragraph 102 recalls that (…) A dynamic IP address registered by an online service provider when a person queries a website that this provider makes accessible to the public constitutes personal data in relation to that provider in the sense of Article 4, point 1, of Regulation 2016/679, when it has legal means to identify the interested person thanks to the additional information held by the Internet access provider of that person (…).

This means that as long as there is a possibility of identification, we are dealing with personal data. 

This consideration is important in relation to the specific case, as it should be remembered that a dynamic IP address is one that changes every so often, for example, due to changes in the network, or due to the restarting of the device with which the service provider provides the connection, as opposed to a static IP address which is always the same. 

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
37

                                                             Legal Office
If the CJEU considers a dynamic IP address, “which changes every so often,” to be personal data, it is logical to consider that the IMSI and the IMEI, which have a permanent nature and from which, therefore, a better individualization of the user and also their identification derives, may also have such consideration. 

Therefore, from the reading of the partially transcribed report and the indicated CJEU ruling, it is deduced that both the IMEI and the IMSI, to the extent that they allow for the singularization of an individual, and therefore their identification, must be considered personal data in accordance with Article 4.1 of the GDPR, which considers as such: 
Any information concerning an identified or identifiable natural person (“the data subject”); an identifiable natural person is considered to be any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or several specific elements of the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that person. 

VII
Next, it is appropriate to address the processing of personal data arising from the communication of the IMSI or the IMEI to the law enforcement agencies and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the investigation and prosecution of crimes. 

In Report No. 213/2004 (and in identical terms Report No. 441/2003, Report 297/2005, and in relation to the transfer of data, in general, to law enforcement agencies, Report No. 133/2008) issued in light of the LOPD and the also repealed Article 12 of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on information society services and electronic commerce, a similar issue was addressed in the following terms: 
Consequently, the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999 apply, and the transmission of the data mentioned in the inquiry to the Law Enforcement Agencies will constitute a transfer or communication of personal data, defined by Article 3 i) of the Organic Law as “Any disclosure of data made to a person other than the data subject.” 

In the case of data transfer, Article 11.1 of Organic Law 15/1999 provides that “Personal data subject to processing may only be communicated to a third party for the fulfillment of purposes. 

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
38
Legal Office
directly related to the legitimate functions of the transferor and the transferee with the prior consent of the interested party.” However, the communication of data without the consent of the interested party will be lawful, as would occur in the case contemplated herein, if it fits within the cases mentioned in Article 11.2 of the Law, considering subsection a) of that provision lawful the transfer enabled by a norm with the rank of Law.

In this case, the inquiry refers to the filing of a complaint before the Security Forces and Corps, and it is necessary to recall that, in this regard, Article 259 of the Criminal Procedure Law states that “anyone who witnesses the commission of any public crime is obliged to immediately inform the nearest investigating Judge, Justice of the Peace, regional or municipal Judge, or public prosecutor at the site where it occurs,” adding Article 262 that “those who, by virtue of their positions, professions, or trades, become aware of any public crime, shall be obliged to report it immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the competent Court, to the investigating Judge, and, failing that, to the municipal Judge or the nearest police officer at the site, if it is a flagrant crime.”

On the other hand, Article 12.1 of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on Information Society Services and Electronic Commerce states that “Operators of electronic communications networks and services, providers of access to telecommunications networks, and providers of data hosting services must retain the connection and traffic data generated by communications established during the provision of an information society service for a maximum period of twelve months, under the terms established in this article and its implementing regulations.”

Furthermore, Article 12.3 of Law 34/2002 adds that “The data shall be retained for use in the context of a criminal investigation or for the safeguarding of public safety and national defense, being made available to Judges or Courts or the Public Prosecutor's Office that so request. The communication of this data to the Security Forces and Corps shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the regulations on the protection of personal data,” noting the last paragraph of Article 12.2 that “Operators of electronic communications networks and services and the service providers referred to in this article may not use the retained data for purposes other than those indicated in the following subsection or others permitted by Law, and must adopt appropriate security measures to prevent loss or alteration and unauthorized access to the same.”

As indicated, the communication of data to the Security Forces and Corps must comply with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, whose Article 22.2 states that “The collection and processing for police purposes of personal data by the Security Forces and Corps without the consent of the affected persons is limited to those cases and categories of data that are necessary for the prevention of a real danger to public safety or for the repression of criminal offenses, and must be stored in specific files established for that purpose, which must be classified by categories based on their degree of reliability.”

This Spanish Agency for Data Protection has considered that the processing of data by the Security Forces and Corps under the provisions of the aforementioned Article 22.2 will be possible as long as the following requirements are met, enumerated in the report of July 16, 1999:
a) That it is duly accredited that the obtaining of the data is necessary for the prevention of a real and serious danger to public safety or for the repression of criminal offenses and that, in the case of specially protected data, they are absolutely necessary for the purposes of a specific investigation.
b) That it is a concrete and specific request, as the exercise of mass data requests is not compatible with the aforementioned.
c) That the request is made with due motivation, which proves its relation to the cases that have been exposed.
d) That, in compliance with Article 20.4 of the LORTAD, the data is canceled “when they are no longer necessary for the inquiries that motivated their storage.”

In this case, excluding the aforementioned subsections b) and c), as it is not a request for information made by the Security Forces and Corps, but rather the data necessary for the filing of a complaint, as indicated in the inquiry, before
Legal Office
the aforementioned Forces and Bodies, the transfer of such data will be covered in the event that the complaint is filed due to the presence of a real and serious danger to public safety or there are well-founded indications in the complainant to consider that facts constitutive of a criminal offense have occurred that must be pursued by the Forces and Bodies of Security. 
Thus, as long as these reasonable indications exist, it should be considered that the processing of the data transferred by the Forces and Bodies of Security will be in accordance with the requirements of Organic Law 15/1999, and consequently, the transfer of the data by the consultant will also be in accordance with the same.
In light of what has been indicated, and taking into account exclusively the impact of the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999 on the proposed case, it should be considered that the transfer of the data would be covered by the provisions of Article 11.2 a) of the same, in connection with the norms of the Criminal Procedure Law cited in this report, as well as Article 22.2 of Organic Law 15/1999 in relation to Article 12.3 of Law 34/2002.
Regarding the communication of personal data for police purposes, the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 14/2003 of January 28, emphasizes the need for reasoned justification in the collection and processing of such data (FJ 7).
Likewise, the Judgment of the Supreme Court No. 249/2008 of May 20, recalls the relationship between Article 22 of the LOPD and the processing of specially protected data:
This capacity to collect data that Organic Law 15/1999 of December 13 grants to the Forces and Bodies of State Security cannot, of course, serve as an excuse for the creation of an uncontrolled regime of exceptionality in their favor. But it cannot be ignored that the collection of that data within the framework of a criminal investigation -never with a purely exploratory character- for the clarification of a crime of special gravity, can be deemed proportionate, necessary, and therefore, not subject to any significant constitutional violation. It also seems evident that the legitimacy that the Law confers to the Forces and Bodies of State Security should never operate in relation to data concerning the content of the right to the secrecy of communications (art. 18.3 of the C.E) or regarding data susceptible to protection under art. 18.4 of the C.E. that will affect what has come to be called the core of privacy or, using legal terminology, specially protected data (art. 7.2 LO 15/1999).
That is to say, the application of Article 22 of the LOPD is deduced as a general rule for the investigation of crimes, except for data related to the content of the right to the secrecy of communications, or to the right to data protection when we are dealing with special categories of data as currently designated in Article 9 of the GDPR.
For their part, ordinary courts have also had the opportunity to rule, as evidenced by Judgment No. 261/2018 of October 23 from the Provincial Court of Cádiz, which relies on Article 22 of the LOPD for the transfer of banking data to the police without judicial authorization or consent from the affected party. 
In conclusion, the responsible party or manager could not refuse to cooperate with the police in the sense of providing personal data that they had derived from such a condition, under the protection of their clients' data, as long as there was a specific request, duly motivated, and that did not imply mass access to personal data and that was necessary for the investigation, all in accordance with Article 22 of the LOPD.
VIII
Currently, the GDPR determines in its Article 2 under the heading "Material Scope of Application" the following:
2. This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data:(…)
d) by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses, or enforcing criminal sanctions, including the protection against threats to public security and their prevention.
For its part, Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) establishes in its Article 2 under the heading "Scope of Application of Titles I to IX and Articles 89 to 94" the following:
Legal Office
a) To the treatments excluded from the scope of application of the General Data Protection Regulation by its Article 2.2, without prejudice to the provisions in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article.
(…)
And in the Fourth Transitional Provision Treatments subject to Directive (EU) 2016/680, the following:
The treatments subject to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or executing criminal sanctions, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council, shall continue to be governed by Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and in particular Article 22, and its implementing provisions, until the regulation that transposes the provisions of the aforementioned directive into Spanish law comes into force.
In the BOE of May 27, 2021, Organic Law 7/2021, of May 26, on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating, and prosecuting criminal offenses and executing criminal sanctions, was published as the transposition norm of said Directive, whose object and scope of application are determined in its Articles 1 and 2.1:
Article 1. Object.
This Organic Law aims to establish the rules concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating, and prosecuting criminal offenses or executing criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security.
Article 2. Scope of application.
1. It shall apply to the total or partially automated processing of personal data, as well as to the non-automated processing of personal data contained or intended to be included in a file, carried out by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating, and prosecuting criminal offenses and executing criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security.
Taking the above into account, the processing that is the subject of analysis in this report, consisting of the communication of certain information to the Security Forces and the Public Prosecutor's Office, falls under the application of the GDPR, without prejudice to the fact that once they have the information and therefore process the personal data, they will be subject to the provisions of the aforementioned Organic Law 7/2021.
In this regard, in Report No. 17/2021 on the Draft Law of Criminal Procedure, the coexistence and application of the aforementioned Directive and the current GDPR are analyzed, indicating that:
In this sense, it is necessary to recall that the aforementioned Directive is part of the reform carried out in the data protection regime within the European Union, thus complementing, for the treatments encompassed within its scope of application, the general regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR).
To this end, it is relevant to highlight that the Directive configures a special regime, to which only the treatments it regulates would be subject, as opposed to the general data protection regime set forth in the General Data Protection Regulation. For this reason, the provisions of the latter will apply to all treatments carried out within the scope of Union law that are not specifically regulated by the Directive, as can be inferred from the scope of application established in Article 2 of the Regulation.
(…)
In relation to its scope of application, it must again be noted the aforementioned reference to the principle of specialty, so that those treatments that, being within the scope of application of Union law, are not subject to the general regime established in the regulation will be subject to the provisions of the Draft Law.
Legal Office
scope of application to all treatments referred to in the Directive, without excluding any treatment included in that scope from the protection of the fundamental right.  
Therefore, the communication of personal data related to the IMSI, the IMEI, or any other information related to the link between both and that derived from the process of duplicating the SIM card, by the operators to the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office, is covered by Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR, which states:  
1. The processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met:  
(…)  
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject;  
For its part, the LOPDGDD in its Article 8 under the heading "Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest or exercise of public powers" establishes in its section 1 the following:  
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided for by a rule of European Union law or a rule with the force of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a consequence of compliance with the legal obligation. Such a rule may also impose special conditions on the processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.  
In this regard, the legal rule that can be invoked and that establishes the specific obligation is the LECrim, and specifically the analyzed provisions, without prejudice to other provisions of the legal system that impose the duty of cooperation with the FCS and, where appropriate, with the Public Prosecutor's Office.  
Once the request has been made and the information received from the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office, the data processing carried out must be understood as referring to that carried out by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses, whereby the aforementioned Organic Law 7/2021, of May 26, on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of criminal offenses and the execution of criminal sanctions, applies, as indicated in its Articles 1 and 2.1 previously cited and in accordance with its subjective scope of application, which in Article 4.1 a) and section 2 establishes what is considered as a competent authority:  
Article 4. Competent Authorities.  
1. For the purposes of this Organic Law, any public authority that has legally assigned competencies for the processing of personal data with any of the purposes provided for in Article 1 shall be a competent authority.  
In particular, the following authorities shall have that consideration, within the scope of their respective competencies:  
a) The Security Forces and Corps.  
(…)  
2. Judicial authorities of the criminal jurisdiction and the Public Prosecutor's Office shall also be considered competent authorities.  
For its part, Article 6 includes the "Principles relating to the processing of personal data," indicating that personal data shall be:  
a) Processed lawfully and fairly.  
b) Collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and not processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes.  
c) Adequate, relevant, and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.  
d) Accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date. All reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure that inaccurate personal data are erased or rectified without undue delay.  
e) Kept in a form which permits identification of the data subject for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data are processed.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
46
Legal Office
f) Treaties in such a way as to ensure adequate security, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss, destruction, or accidental damage. For this purpose, appropriate technical or organizational measures will be used. These principles can be considered an update and specification of what was indicated in the previous reports of this Agency and the cited judgments regarding the requirements that data processing must meet under the repealed Article 22 of the LOPD once the competent authorities received the information. 

Regarding the lawfulness of processing, Article 11 establishes the following: 
1. Processing shall only be lawful to the extent that it is necessary for the purposes indicated in Article 1 and is carried out by a competent authority in the exercise of its functions. 
2. Any law regulating the processing of personal data for the purposes included within the scope of this Organic Law must indicate, at a minimum, the objectives of the processing, the personal data that will be subject to it, and the purposes of the processing. 

In this case, it must be considered that the enabling law for the processing of data referred to in the terms of the consultation is the LECrim, and, where applicable, Law 25/2007 of October 18. 

On the other hand, from the perspective of the operators and without prejudice to what is indicated in Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR, it should be noted what is indicated in Article 7, which under the heading "Duty of Cooperation" states that: 
1. Public administrations, as well as any natural or legal person, shall provide the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Judicial Police with the data, reports, background information, and justifications that they request and that are necessary for the investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or for the execution of penalties. The request from the Judicial Police must strictly adhere to the exercise of the functions assigned to it by Article 549.1 of Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1, and must always be made in a reasoned, concrete, and specific manner, reporting in any case to the judicial and prosecutorial authority. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
47  

                                                             Legal Office
The communication of data, reports, background information, and justifications by the Tax Administration, the Social Security Administration, and the Labor and Social Security Inspectorate shall be carried out in accordance with their respective legislation. 
2. In other cases, public administrations, as well as any natural or legal person, shall provide the data, reports, background information, and justifications to the competent authorities that request them, provided that these are necessary for the specific development of their missions for the prevention, detection, and investigation of criminal offenses and for the prevention and protection against a real and serious danger to public safety. The request from the competent authority must be concrete and specific and contain the motivation that substantiates its relation to the indicated cases. 
3. The provisions of the previous sections shall not apply when judicial authorization is legally required to obtain the necessary data for the fulfillment of the purposes of Article 1. 
4. In the cases contemplated in the previous sections, the interested party shall not be informed of the transmission of their data to the competent authorities, nor of having facilitated access to them by such authorities in any other way, in order to guarantee the investigative activity. 

For the same purpose, subjects to whom the legal system imposes a specific duty of cooperation with the competent authorities for the fulfillment of the purposes established in Article 1 shall not inform the interested party of the transmission of their data to such authorities, nor of having facilitated access to them by such authorities in any other way, in compliance with their specific obligations. 

Therefore, telecommunications operators are obliged to provide information about the link between the IMEI and the IMSI, - as long as it is not linked to a communication process, in which case judicial authorization would be required - as well as the data related to the process of duplicating the SIM card, not only as indicated in Article 588 ter m) of the LECrim but also under the duty of cooperation just indicated, and without prejudice to the fact that the communication of the data would be carried out under Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
48
Legal Office
On the other hand, it should be noted that the data controllers - the competent authorities - are subject to the obligations related to retention and review periods (Article 8) and, among others, to those concerning "data protection by design and by default" as provided in Article 28 and the "security of processing" referred to in Article 37 of the aforementioned organic law.  
Therefore, in relation to the processing under analysis in this consultation, it should be indicated that on the side of the operators, their legitimacy is found in Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR, and once the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office have the data, such processing is subject to Organic Law 7/2021, of May 26, and therefore, the principles referred to in Article 6 must be complied with, especially those of purpose limitation and data minimization (paragraphs b) and c)).  
IX  
What has been analyzed so far is the processing of personal data held by the operators to provide it to the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of the crime behind SIM Swapping; however, it is necessary to indicate that this is an element or stage of the data processing derived from this scam, which necessarily has antecedents that need to be analyzed.  
On the side of the operators, it should be indicated that, in general, they process their customers' data under the provisions of Article 6.1 b) of the GDPR, as it is considered necessary processing for the execution of a contract in which the data subject is a party or for the application at their request of pre-contractual measures.  
And to complete the scam, it is necessary for the third party to "impersonate the identity" of the data subject to receive the duplicate of the SIM card. This leads, a priori, to processing outside the principle of lawfulness since a third party is processing data, as they have access to it, without any legal basis, in addition to the violation of other principles such as confidentiality and integrity, which according to Article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, data will be processed in such a way as to ensure an adequate level of security of personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
49  

                                                             Legal Office  
For this reason, this is a process in which the diligence provided by the operators is fundamental to avoid this type of scams and violations of the GDPR. Diligence that translates into the establishment of appropriate measures to ensure that data processing is compliant with the GDPR.  
Therefore, as data controllers, it is the responsibility of the operators to comply with the principles set out in Article 5 of the GDPR, among which the principles of fairness, integrity, and confidentiality (paragraphs 5.1 a) and f)) should be highlighted.  
Likewise, it should be taken into account what is indicated in Article 24 of the GDPR, which states:  
1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is in compliance with this Regulation. Such measures shall be reviewed and updated when necessary.  
Secondly, what is indicated in Article 25 of the GDPR regarding data protection by design and by default.  
And thirdly, Article 32.1 b) and d) of the GDPR states:  
Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, which may include, among others:  
b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of processing systems and services;  
(...)  
d) a process for regularly verifying, assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of processing.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
50
Legal Office
That is to say, operators must be prepared to establish mechanisms that prevent the fraudulent duplication of SIM cards, measures that respect the integrity and confidentiality of data and that prevent a third party from accessing data that does not belong to them, as it is precisely the operator's responsibility to process personal data in accordance with the GDPR. 

Additionally, there is the obligation that arises from the principle of proactive responsibility established in Article 5.2 of the GDPR, meaning that it is not enough to avoid non-compliance; it is necessary to demonstrate that data processing is carried out in accordance with current regulations. 

The shortcomings of a duplicate issuance system that covers cases outside the physical procedure cannot be passed on to the user, as if the company has established, among other things, such a possibility, it must equally verify that the data processing necessary for that purpose (issuance of the duplicate SIM) has all the guarantees to comply with the GDPR. 

In this regard, it is appropriate to cite Resolution R/01359/2008, as it analyzes the data processing derived from a "remote" contracting process and highlights the need for the data controller to adapt measures so that such processing is lawful (in that case, measures were necessary to verify the age of the contractor) without being able to argue that the risks assumed are "inherent to the medium used," specifically stating: 

No one can claim their own lack of diligence (in this case, the age verification procedure did not work) nor pass on to the potential client the errors arising from the techniques or mechanisms used for contracting, as derived from Article 10 of the LGCU. 

In the circumstance of the actual ignorance of the minor's age, TME cannot be sheltered. It is not the minor who takes the initiative in the contractual relationship, given that it is a means of contracting chosen by TME that only benefits it, so it cannot benefit from a means of communication that prevents it from knowing the degree of capacity of the counterparty. It is TME that must assume the inconveniences arising from the lack of physical contact between the contracting parties. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
51  

                                                             Legal Office
Inconveniences that only TME is in a position to avoid in these cases, renouncing to capture the change of contracting via telephone and, always, requesting the identification of its holders, or carrying out the necessary, effective, and efficient verifications to know the age of the minor, both for compliance with the LOPD and to ensure that the contracting is done with all the guarantees and requirements, which in law are covered in the General Theory of Obligations and Contracts. 

It is the operators who must assume the risks arising from the possibility of making duplicates without physical presence and be in a position to eliminate such risks. In this sense, Article 28.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following: 

2. For the adoption of the measures referred to in the previous section, the controllers and processors of the data shall take into account, in particular, the greater risks that could arise in the following cases: 
a) When the processing could generate situations of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial losses, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other significant economic, moral, or social harm to those affected. 
b) When the processing could deprive those affected of their rights and freedoms or could prevent them from exercising control over their personal data. 
(…) 

In conclusion, telecommunications operators must comply with and be in a position to demonstrate that they comply with the GDPR when processing personal data derived from the processing of the request for a duplicate SIM card, potentially incurring, in case of non-compliance, in the behaviors provided for in the sanctioning regime established in Title IX of the LOPDGDD. 

X 
Identical considerations apply to the actions of banking entities that provide payment services, in which this type of fraud begins, as the third party has access to the credentials of the affected user and impersonates them. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
52
Legal Office
That is to say, the violation of data protection regulations and payment protection regulations is the requirement that initiates the SIM Swapping scam. 
As these entities are responsible for processing their clients' data, they have the same obligations as those indicated so far for the operators regarding compliance with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD, as well as those arising from Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and other urgent measures in financial matters. 
Indeed, in addition to the reference to data protection regulations made by Article 65, which states, “The processing and transfer of data related to the activities referred to in this royal decree-law are subject to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, and to Spanish data protection regulations, and to the national regulations that develop it,” the specific regulation of Article 68, under the heading “Authentication,” should also be taken into account, which states the following:
1.  Payment service providers shall apply strong customer authentication in the manner, with the content, and with the exceptions provided for in the corresponding technical standard approved by the European Commission, when the payer:
   a) accesses their online payment account;
   b) initiates an electronic payment transaction;
   c) performs any action through a remote channel that may involve a risk of fraud in payment or other abuses.
2. Regarding the initiation of electronic payment transactions mentioned in section 1, letter b) concerning remote electronic payment transactions, payment service providers shall apply strong customer authentication that includes elements that dynamically associate the transaction with a specific amount and a specific beneficiary.
3.  In the cases referred to in section 1, payment service providers shall have adequate security measures to protect the confidentiality and integrity of the personalized security credentials of users of payment services.
4. Sections 2 and 3 shall also apply when payments are initiated through a payment initiation service provider. Sections 1 and 3 shall also apply when information is requested through a payment service provider that provides account information services.
5. The account servicing payment service provider shall allow the payment initiation service provider and the payment service provider that provides account information services to use the authentication procedures provided to the user of payment services by the account servicing payment service provider in accordance with sections 1 and 3 and when the payment initiation service provider is involved, in accordance with sections 1, 2, and 3.
And it defines authentication and strong customer authentication in the following terms:
Authentication: a procedure that allows the payment service provider to verify the identity of a user of a payment service or the validity of the use of a specific payment instrument, including the use of the user's personalized security credentials.
Strong customer authentication: authentication based on the use of two or more elements categorized as knowledge (something only the user knows), possession (something only the user possesses), and inherence (something that is the user), which are independent – that is, the compromise of one does not compromise the reliability of the others – and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of identification data.
That is to say, “something that only the user knows” (such as a PIN code or password), “something that the user has” (such as a coordinate card or mobile phone), and “something that the user is” (such as a fingerprint, face, voice, or iris). By using two-factor authentication, verifying the user's identity through two distinct mechanisms adds an extra layer of security to the electronic transaction.  
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
54
Legal Office
It is thus established not only the obligation of reinforced authentication to carry out an operation but also to access banking services. 
That is to say, the SIM Swapping scam requires the breach of at least two layers of security: that of the identification itself and that of the operation considered in itself. 
For this reason, the entities included in Article 2 of the aforementioned Royal Decree-Law must establish all necessary measures so that identification and authentication are effective in preventing or hindering the commission of this type of fraud, and it is not the responsibility of this Agency to control such application, but only those derived from compliance with the GDPR, to which reference has been made in the previous section.

XI
In accordance with the above, it can be concluded regarding the processing of personal data derived from the pursuit of SIM Swapping by the Law Enforcement Agencies (FCS) and the Public Prosecutor's Office the following:
First, it should be noted that although the CJEU ruling of April 8, 2014, Case C-293/2012 invalidated Directive 2006/24/EC of March 15, 2006, due to the lack of proportionality that the application of its provisions could imply, the Supreme Court in Judgment No. 727/2020 of March 23 makes it clear that the deficiencies observed in the aforementioned Directive do not occur in the current national legal system, and it recalls the full validity of Law 25/2007 of October 18 and its coexistence with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Law (LECrim).
Therefore, access to information about the IMEI and IMSI would be lawful as long as the requirements indicated in the aforementioned regulations are met, whether they are linked to a communication process or simply pursue the identification of its holder outside of such communication process.
Secondly, and in relation to the above, access by the FCS and the Public Prosecutor's Office to data regarding the link between the IMEI of the device where the duplicated SIM is used and the SIM itself, unless otherwise advised by those agencies or institutions with competencies in this area, will not require judicial authorization as long as the request is not linked to a specific communication process, in which case, Law 25/2007 of October 18 would apply.

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
55

                                                             Legal Office
Thirdly, the processing of personal data of the affected individuals consisting of the communication by the operators to the FCS and the Public Prosecutor's Office of information about the circumstances of the request for duplication of the SIM card and its activation, within the framework of an investigation into the commission of crimes, is generally covered, from the operators' side, by Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR, and once the information is in the possession of the FCS and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is covered by Organic Law 7/2021, of May 26, on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of criminal offenses and enforcement of criminal sanctions, all in accordance with the provisions of Article 588 ter m) of the LECrim. 
Fourthly, it should be noted that the technical operation in which such communication occurs, in relation to the access conditioned by the manner in which telecommunications operators store traffic data, are matters outside the competence of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
And finally, it should be noted that it is the responsibility of telecommunications operators and banking entities to comply with the provisions of the GDPR as data controllers of their clients' data, and in particular to establish measures so that the processing is fair, confidential, and prevents unauthorized access by third parties to personal information, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 5.1f), 24, and 32 of the GDPR, and 28.2 of the LOPDGDD, without prejudice to what corresponds to banking entities as payment service providers derived from Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and other urgent financial measures.

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                   www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
56