Press release: The Saarland State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information publishes the 30th activity report for data protection for 2021
 
 06/22/2022
 
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
The Saarland State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Monika Grethel, presented the 30th activity report on data protection to the President of the State Parliament, Heike Becker, and the Prime Minister, Anke Rehlinger. The report was presented to the public in the press conference that followed.
 From left to right: President of the State Parliament Heike Becker, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Monika Grethel, Prime Minister Anke Rehlinger (Photo: Saarland State Chancellery)
 The 30th activity report on data protection by the Independent Data Protection Center Saarland deals with topics and developments from the 2021 reporting year, which was mainly due to the rotating assumption of the chair of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) (Chapter 2.1) and again by the Pandemic events (Chapter 3). In addition to supporting the sometimes very short-term creation of legal framework conditions for combating pandemics, the use of digital contact tracing systems and the exclusive promotion of a single private service - despite the further development of the data-saving Corona warning app - were particularly important the Saarland state government is the subject of a critical examination (Chapter 3.1). The same applied to the extensive data processing in private corona test centers (Chapter 3.3) and the query of the test and immunization status at the workplace (Chapter 3.5). Chair of the DSK and advisor to the Saarland legislator and legislator in the context of the Corona measures represents a considerable administrative challenge." emphasizes Monika Grethel and adds "Against the background of a significantly increased number of complaints and reports of data protection violations in the reporting period, the perception of the control - and supervisory powers can hardly be afforded properly. In view of an expected further increase in the number of cases, effective execution of the supervisory tasks and the constant demand for advisory work can only be guaranteed if the agency has appropriate staffing levels Number of regulatory remedial actions taken, e.g. in the form of fines imposed (Chapter 1.4). The significant increase in reports of data protection violations (Chapter 1.3) is due to a multiplication of cyber attacks on companies and authorities. The active exploitation of vulnerabilities in standard software was particularly evident in the reporting period (Chapter 4.25). In addition to the annual complaint-intensive topics of video surveillance, employee data protection or direct marketing, the focus of activities from the public and non-public area is, in particular, dealing with the data protection framework for elections and the census 2022 (Chapters 4.1 and 4.3), advising the commission charged with processing suspected cases of abuse in child and adolescent psychiatry at the Saarland University Hospital (Chapter 4.11), implications of data protection law for the activities of credit agencies (Chapters 4.19 and 4.20) and the admissibility of the Obtaining creditworthiness information (chapter 4.18 and 5.1).
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Press release (PDF document)
 
 107KB
 
 30. Activity report on data protection (PDF document)
 
 1MB
 