1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00099/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: DG OF THE CIVIL GUARD. - BALAGUER COMPANY. MARKET STALL
PROSECUTOR OF ***LOCALITY.1 (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 18
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against A.A.A. (XXXXX) with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of a
video-surveillance” without having an informative poster adjusted to the regulations in force.

A copy of the Report filed by the Police Forces and Bodies is provided.
State Security, indicating the offenses committed at the scene
(doc. no. 1).

SECOND: On June 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

THIRD: The database of this body was consulted on 09/04/20, no
There is no allegation regarding the facts that are the subject of the complaint.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the Complaint transferred by the Guardia Ci-
vil to this Agency on 02/18/20 by means of which it is transferred as a main fact
lead the following:

"installation of video-surveillance system" without an information poster

adjusted to the regulations in force.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

The RGPD obliges data controllers to offer data subjects
more information about the treatments that are carried out and the way to exercise the
Rights. All those responsible must comply with this obligation of transparency.
regardless of its size as an organization.

Article 22.4 LOPDGDD provides the following:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative site a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”.

Likewise, it must have an informative form(s) available to any
any customer who may require it inside the establishment, so that he can
fill it in if required, being able to consult it on the website of this organization.
nismo www.aep.es in the Video-surveillance Section “forms and other models”.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has a video system
vilgancia in its commercial establishment, although it does not have the obligatory sign in-
training indicated by the person in charge of the treatment and the way to exercise the rights
rights recognized in the regulations in force.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements,
teeth the facts verified by those are collected will prove them except
prove the contrary”.

In such a way that the absence of an informative poster in the state is accredited.
denounced establishment, when such an extreme was verified by the acting force displaced
given to the scene of the events, which determines that it does not report on the responsible
ble, nor the way to exercise the rights regulated in articles 15-22 RGPD.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of art. 13 GDPR.

IV

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

A photograph must be provided with date and time that proves compliance with
what is established, that is, to have an informative poster in a visible area indicating the
responsible for the file (by way of example A.A.A. and the address to which to address),
before which to be able to exercise, where appropriate, the rights recognized in the RGPD.

Likewise, you must keep the documentation inside the establishment
in an orderly manner for display if required by the acting force, to avoid
thereby creating new administrative complaints in the event of new inspections.
tions of the establishment in question.

Remember for the appropriate legal purposes, that the lack of collaboration with this
Agency may lead to the opening of a sanctioning procedure of a
economic, under the terms of art. 72.1 letter o) LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the accused party A.A.A. (XXXXX), with NIF ***NIF.1, by
an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUIRE the accused to legalize the system by placing a sign
informative duly approved, accrediting such extreme to this Agency to the
appropriate legal effects.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. (XXXXX) and REPORT the
result of the actions D.G. OF THE CIVIL GUARD. -   COMPANY OF
BALAGUER. PROSECUTOR POSITION OF ***LOCALITY.1

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

