1/10

 File No.: PS/00369/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 27, 2021, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant)
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, against the
CITY COUNCIL OF ALICANTE/ALACANT, with NIF P0301400H, (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are a possible violation of the
data protection legislation, produced after the notification of a resolution that
contained someone else's data. Along with the claim, provide a copy of the
resolution addressed to the claimant, but containing the data of another citizen.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the respondent, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

There is no record in this Agency of a reply to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On May 12, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed
admit for processing the claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:
On May 17, 2021, information was requested from the respondent and the response
received the following follows:
Regarding the chronology of events. Actions taken in order to minimize
the adverse effects and measures adopted for their final resolution:

 The claimant filed an application for the refund of fees in
dated September 19, 2019, which was dismissed on September 19,
November 2019.

 Article 57 of Law 39/2025 of October 1 on procedure
common administrative allows the accumulation of applications in a single
file (The administrative body that initiates or processes a procedure, anyone who
has been the form of its initiation, it may have, ex officio or at the request of a party, its
accrual to others with whom he or she has a substantial identity or intimate connection, provided that it is
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/10

the same body who must process and resolve the procedure) so they proceeded to
the accumulation in a single file of various identical applications and the
joint dismissal of all of them.
The resolution is joint, but the notification to the interested parties is only included
the part that affects them.
The respondent has provided a copy of the resolution of the procedure
dismissal dated 11/14/2019 where the personal data of the
claimant along with 8 other people.

 The respondent states that (...)

A copy of the notification has been provided (...). Both notices are from
11/19/2019.
The respondent states that there has been no violation in the
data protection regulations regarding the claimant.

 On December 20, 2019, the claimant filed an appeal in the
which, among other aspects, revealed the error in its notification and
part of the respondent was sent a new notification on January 29, 2020
with the correct data.
This appeal was estimated by the Economic-Administrative Tribunal
municipal on February 8, 2021 proceeding to the return of the
claimed fees.

FIFTH: On July 23, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 and 83.4 respectively of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that the data of
a third party to the claimant due to human confusion, caused by the large number
of resolutions that the City Council must notify.

SEVENTH: On October 22, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated, in
the following terms:

<< That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection directs a
warning to the CITY COUNCIL OF ALICANTE/ALACANT, with NIF P0301400H,
for a violation of article 5.1. f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article
83.5 of the RGPD, qualified as very serious for prescription purposes in the article
72.1 i) of the LOPDGDD and for violation of article 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with the
provided in article 83.4 of the aforementioned RGPD, classified as serious for the purposes of
prescription in article 73 section f) of the LOPDGDD.>>

EIGHTH: On November 10, 2021, the entity claimed filed a written
of allegations to the Resolution Proposal, in which, in summary, it stated that
the data of the claimant were not communicated to anyone else, that the erroneous
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

communication of the data was due to an error, that said error was of a
exceptional and was produced by a human confusion, confusion that had not been
produced up to that date after the processing of thousands of notifications and that no
reiterated since then by having the City Council with techniques and procedures that
guarantee an adequate level of security, states that they are going to improve the
security measures to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future and
requests the filing of the proceedings without imposing any sanction.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 11/11/19 the claimant is notified of a resolution that
contained someone else's data.

SECOND: From the documentation presented by the claimed party, due to an error
the claimant was notified of a third party's data, but the claimant's data was not
have notified third parties.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

SECOND: Regarding the allegations presented to the Resolution Proposal, it is
should point out that security measures must be adopted in attention to all and
each of the risks present in the processing of personal data,
including among them, the human factor.

This risk must be taken into account by the data controller who, in
function of this, must establish the necessary technical and organizational measures that
prevents the data controller from losing control of the data and,
therefore, by the owners of the data that provided them.

In this sense, it has been found that the security measures available
implemented by the claimed entity in relation to the data that it submitted to treatment
as the person in charge, were not adequate to enable the exhibition to third parties
of personal data with the consequent lack of diligence by the
responsible.
Consequently, the allegations must be dismissed, meaning that the
arguments presented do not distort the essential content of the infraction that
declared to have been committed, nor do they imply sufficient cause for justification or exculpation.

THIRD: The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for
Violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, Principles related to treatment, states the following:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…) f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

 Article 5 of the LOPDGDD, Duty of confidentiality, states the following:

  "1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the
duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even
when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment".

The documentation in the file shows that the defendant,
violated article 5.1.f of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in relation to the
Article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, when sending a resolution to the
claimant, revealing information and personal data of a third party.

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of preventing
leaks of the data are carried out without the consent of the owners of these.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not only on the
responsible and in charge of the treatment, but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

Furthermore, article 40.5 of the LPACAP establishes that "The
Public Administrations may adopt the measures they deem necessary
for the protection of personal data contained in resolutions and acts
administrative, when these have as addressees more than one interested party”; given
that there had been an accumulation of several proceedings under article
57 of the same legal text, the precautions established
normatively.

FOURTH: Regarding the security of personal data, article 32 of the RGPD
“Security of treatment”, establishes that:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

 

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The facts revealed imply the violation of the measures
technical and organizational by enabling the exhibition to third parties of documentation where
contain personal data with the consequent lack of diligence by the
responsible.

Security measures must be adopted in attention to each and every one of the
risks present in the processing of personal data, including, among
the same the human factor.

FIFTH: The GDPR defines breaches of personal data security as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications that the
claimed has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security when notifying the claimant of information and personal data in a resolution
from a third party.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

 Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

 In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
 
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this case, as evidenced by the facts and in the case file
E/05586/2021, the AEPD transferred to the respondent, the claim submitted for
analysis, requesting the provision of information related to the incident. In the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

documentation provided, the respondent acknowledges that he made a mistake and notified a
resolution containing personal data of a third party.

The liability of the claimed party is determined by the security breach
revealed by the claimant, since he is responsible for making decisions
aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the
confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing access to the
in the event of a physical or technical incident.

In accordance with the foregoing, the respondent is responsible for the violation of the
article 32 of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Article 83.5 of the RGPD provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: "The acts and behaviors referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 72 of the LOPDGDD,
under the rubric of infractions considered very serious, it establishes the following: “1. In
Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

 (…)

Yo)

The violation of the duty of confidentiality established in article 5
of this organic law.

 The violation of article 32 RGPD is typified in article 83.4.a) of the
cited RGPD in the following terms:

 "4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.”

 (…)

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 73 of the LOPDGDD,
under the heading "Infringements considered serious", it establishes the following:

  “Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

 (…)

  f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 and 83.4 of the GDPR, transcribed above.

SEVENTH: Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public, in Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to sanction", in the
Article 28 under the heading "Responsibility", the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

EIGHTH: Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have
all of the following corrective powers indicated below:

  b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

 d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

The imposition of this last measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of
administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

NINTH: Article 83.7 of the RGPD adds:

 “Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public but with a warning, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6.
of the LOPDGDD:

 "1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

 “c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.”

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
of interested, in his case.”

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

 6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DIRECT TO THE CITY COUNCIL OF ALICANTE/ALACANT, with NIF
P0301400H, for a violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF
ALICANTE/ALACANT.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

