11/1

 File No.: EXP202209485

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated July 20, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CASTILLA-LA MANCHA HEALTH SERVICE with
NIF Q4500146H (hereinafter, SESCAM). The reasons on which the claim is based are
the following:

At the beginning of 2019, SESCAM initiated a disciplinary file against the party
claimant.

On April 21, 2022, it was sent from the corporate email address ***EMAIL.1
an email to all professionals who provide services in the Management of
Urgencies, Emergencies and Sanitary Transport (G.U.E.T.S), attaching, for your
knowledge, the resolution of the disciplinary file filed against the party
claimant.

The complaining party states that the resolution sent is not found
fully anonymized; since it contains references that allow its
identification, proof of this is that he received emails from colleagues who
they had received the resolution and had identified him. In this sense, it is worth noting that
On page 5 of the resolution sent, a mention is made of the address of the
file that clearly identifies you; since, he is the only doctor of the G.U.E.T.S.
who has his residence in the Community of Canaria (knowing his colleagues
this circumstance due to its exceptionality).

Likewise, it is affirmed by the complaining party that on page 9 of said resolution
refers to the fact that on that date it was the patronal festivity in the town
where the service is provided, which allows, especially the personnel who work in the
Community of Castilla La Mancha, know perfectly well that the town in
question was Molina de Aragón, which celebrates its patron saint festivities between the 29th and 3rd
of September.

Along with the claim, provide the email sent by the claimed party to which the
attached the resolution of the disciplinary file, six emails sent
by the colleagues to the complaining party to comment on what happened and the resolution
attached to the disputed email.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
LOPDGDD), the claim was transferred to SESCAM, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on September 15, 2022
as stated in the certificate that is in the file.

On October 18 of that same year, this Agency received a letter of
response indicating that “…To the claimant, worker of the Emergency Department and
SESCAM emergencies, a disciplinary file was opened for him for some acts of
seriousness and great repercussion in the operation and organization of the Management of
Urgencies and emergencies.
Dictated the corresponding resolution in which it proceeded to sanction said
worker, the Management withdrew all the personal data of the same in order to
send it, anonymously, to the rest of the company's workers so that they
said behaviors do not prosper and thus avoid the opening of other files
disciplinary proceedings in which other employees of the company could be harmed.
Management... Said Resolution was correctly anonymized, without the data that
appear in the Resolution that was sent, the identity of the person to whom
it means.
The name and surname of the worker did not appear in the resolution sent, nor did the center
job in which he was located, nor the geographic area in which he was located.
Neither was the person identified with initials, nor was there an address or ID. In
definitively, not only did the name of the person to whom the
Resolution, nor any other personal data that identifies the person who
had been sanctioned. There was no record of the place where he worked, nor any information that
reveal the identity of the person to whom the Resolution referred…”.

THIRD: On October 20, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On November 23, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR and article 32 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR and article 83.4 of the GDPR, respectively.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), dated December 13, 2002
was received by the Spanish Data Protection Agency in writing communicating the
intention not to make claims to the notified initiation agreement.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It has been proven that on April 21, 2022, the
corporate email address ***EMAIL.1 an email to all
professionals who provide services in the Management of Emergencies, Emergencies and
Sanitary Transport (G.U.E.T.S), attaching, for your knowledge, the resolution of the
disciplinary proceedings instituted against the complaining party.

SECOND: It has been proven that the resolution sent was not found
totally anonymized, containing references that allowed the identification of the
complaining party.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

Article 5.1.f) "Principles relating to processing" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Personal data will be:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of personal data;
personal information, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against its
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical or
appropriate organizational procedures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the complaining party, obtained
in the SESCAM database, were improperly disseminated to the rest of the profes-
professionals who provide services in the Emergency Management, Emergencies and Transportation
Sanitary (G.U.E.T.S), violating the principle of confidentiality.

An email was sent from the corporate email address ***EMAIL.1 to
all professionals who provide services in the Emergency Department, Emergency
and Sanitary Transport (G.U.E.T.S), enclosing, for your information, the resolution
tion of the disciplinary file initiated against the complaining party.

Said resolution is not completely anonymous, containing references
that allow the identification of the complaining party.
In this sense, we must remember the definition of personal data contained in the
Article 4 of the GDPR: "... "personal data": any information about a natural person
identified or identifiable ("the data subject"); will be considered an identifiable natural person
any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular
be identified by an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
information, location data, an online identifier or one or more elements of your own
of the physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social identity of different
cha person…”.

Without forgetting that, in recital 26 of the same legal text, it is provided that the main
data protection rules should apply to all information relating to a person
identified or identifiable physical sound.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

II

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of 20 000 000 EUR maximum or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
lien under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
rias to the present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very serious”
you see” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees established
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Penalty for violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

IV.

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, imposing administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or responsible for the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge: ...
 

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communi-
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration…

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
only, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct the effects of the
offense that was committed.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

V

GDPR Article 32

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature of
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability risks
and variable severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsibility
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, will include
yeah, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of processing
I lie.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
The risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted
collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mecha-
certification document approved in accordance with article 42 may serve as an element to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having
ga access to personal data can only process such data following instructions
of the controller, unless it is required to do so by Union law or by
the Member States”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

In the present case, at the time of the security breach, there is no record
that SESCAM had reasonable security measures based on the pos-
possible estimated risks.

SESCAM states that "The Resolution sent to all workers was revised
sada by 3 people in order to eliminate existing personal data. The Re-
solution passed 3 filters before being sent: the first person who performed the anonymization
evaluation, the immediate superior who reviewed it and finally, the Management Department that
proceeded to review before shipment."

Said manifestation reveals the ignorance of the personnel that has intervened.
nested in the process in relation to the anonymization of the data.

In this sense, it is important to highlight that the data will be considered anonymized in
to the extent that there is no reasonable probability that any person could
identify the natural person in the data set.

The anonymization process is intended to eliminate or minimize the risks
of reidentification of the owners of the data, but without distorting the treatment of
data.

The purpose is to offer greater guarantees of privacy to people, preventing the
breach of confidentiality, integrity and availability of systems and services
treatment rates.

In the present case, the personal data of the complaining party that appear in the
solution attached to the email sent, are not found correctly
minimized allowing the complaining party to be identifiable to persons
who are aware of the non-anonymous circumstances, particularly their place of residence
dence, given the peculiarity of the latter.

For the rest, the way of acting of the staff, as described, involves a
high risk that errors like this can occur.

SESCAM has not contributed to this procedure any document on instructions.
or training their staff in relation to certain practices, such as this one, which
carry a risk of producing a security breach that affects the data
personal.

Moreover, in relation to the measures that it intends to adopt so that it does not happen again.
produce a similar incident in the future, the defendant states that "...the measures to
adopt are those that have been adopted to date: That the documentation passes the
necessary filters to detect that no personal data remains, consider
SENSITIVE..." considering "...the possibility of acquiring an informative program
specific code to facilitate this anonymization of data..." highlighting that the same
would be "... only to facilitate their work to the people who carry out this an-
minimization…” not raised; in any case, the need to delve into the form-
training of your staff in relation to anonymization processes and tools,
so that incidents like the one that occurred do not happen again in the future.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

SAW

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD supposes the commission of infringements ti-
classified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

5)

the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 have infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
the present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the
They are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a vulnerability.
substantial portion of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
…

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679. (…)”.

Penalty for violation of article 32 of the GDPR

VII

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, imposing administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or responsible for the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge: ...

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

 

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communi-
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration…

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
only, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct the effects of the
offense that was committed.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

VIII

Measures

Article 58.2 of the GDPR provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:
 d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period…”.

Likewise, it is appropriate to impose the corrective measure described in article 58.2.d) of the
GDPR and order SESCAM to, within three months, establish the measures
adequate security so that the treatments are adapted to the requirements
contemplated in articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the GDPR, preventing the occurrence of
similar situations in the future.

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to adopt, without prejudice

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows its organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD, reporting all this to this body.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA, with NIF
Q4500146H, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

TO IMPOSE the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA, with NIF and, for a
infringement of Article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUEST the CASTILLA-LA MANCHA HEALTH SERVICE to
implement, within a period of three months, the necessary corrective measures to adapt
their performance to the personal data protection regulations, which prevent that in the
similar events are repeated in the future, as well as to inform this Agency in the same
term
taken.

measures

about

the

 

 

 

 

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to HEALTH SERVICE OF
CASTILLA LA MANCHA.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

