

Bonn, February 13, 2023


Press release 3/2023


  45 years Federal Commissioner for Data Protection
For 45 years, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) has been checking whether the legal provisions on data protection are being implemented and complied with. It was always about protecting the private sphere of citizens and their right to informational self-determination.



Source: Jens Gyarmaty

BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber stands by this claim, precisely because of the massive technological and social changes since 1978: "Today, global companies and platforms, big data and learning algorithms present us with new challenges. With the European General Data Protection Regulation, we have managed to counter these developments together with other countries with a strong set of rules based on European values.”
With new legal acts on digitization, such as the Data Governance Act, the Digital Services Act, the Digital Markets Act and the Artificial Intelligence Acts, the European Union is taking the next step in regulation. From the point of view of the BfDI, this is long overdue: "We urgently need more transparency in algorithms, clear red lines in behavior tracking and restrictions on manipulative designs. I am therefore glad that there are more and more data protection laws based on the European model around the world, for example in Japan or in Brazil. This shows how valuable the exchange is in the European Data Protection Board and in international formats such as the Global Privacy Assembly, the 'Berlin Group' or within the framework of the G7. The BfDI is consistently continuing along the path that was started 45 years ago.”
In 1970 Hesse had the first data protection law in Germany and worldwide. The Federal Data Protection Act was passed seven years later, so that on February 13, 1978, Hans Peter Bull, the first Federal Commissioner for Data Protection, could be elected. With the Freedom of Information Act in 2006, the authority was given a new task, which has since been called the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. The BfDI has been an independent supreme federal authority since 2016.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











