THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

March 2, 2020

 

 

  LfDI publishes its second activity report for freedom of information

Baden-Württemberg before: "Increasing openness of our administrations"

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI), Dr.

Stefan Brink, published his 2nd activity report for freedom of information today

public.

 

"The public administration of Baden-Württemberg is looking for an exchange with the

society, it wants to be communicative and “open” in the best sense of the word – open to

Suggestions, for questions, but also for criticism and improvement. The increase-

en Openness in our administrations is part of an evolutionary process that

the increasing networking of our modern information society

was triggered, but was significantly accelerated,” says Brink. The LfDI continues: “In

In certain areas, this opening process has not only been met with applause, but

or even criticism. For example, if access options after the country

Freedom of Information Act (LIFG) traditional question rights as in the parliamentary

area or within the local councils and cause astonishment

sen.”

 

Brink therefore still sees it as one of his main tasks, which is necessary for this

to provide flexible orientation: "So that our authorities are well acquainted with the new law of the

Freedom of information are prepared and our citizens at the same time

as comprehensive and knowledgeable as possible of the new civil right to access information

If you make use of it, we will continue to expand our range of consulting services!”

 

The 2nd activity report for freedom of information comprises four chapters, in which

ter other citizens in a clear "FAQ section" information

received, how they can use the LIFG, which standards of the LfDI for the use

Königstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

of artificial intelligence (AI) in the public sector and with which cases

from the practice of the LfDI is confronted.

 

Main topics in the activity report:

 The first IFG-Days Baden-Württemberg, Outlook Transparency Act

 Transparency of administration when using algorithms and AI processes

 Facilitate access to information in the authorities through "Freedom of information by

Design"

 Development of transparency in other German countries

 More transparency in the remuneration of top managers in public

take

 One-Pager LIFG

 The path of the LIFG procedure

 
The activity report is available on the LfDI homepage at:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/2.-TB-
Freedom of Information-Web.pdf.
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

