 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  23/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Italy regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

adopted 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................... 6 

2.2.2 
GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4 of  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements)................................................................................................................................. 6 

2.2.3 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) ......... 7 

2.2.4 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Section 7 of the draft accreditation requirements) ............ 7 

2.2.5  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  REQUIREMENTS  (section  8  of  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements)................................................................................................................................. 7 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks ................................................................................................................................. 8 

 

adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to draft 
their  requirements  for  accreditation  following  the  structure  set  out  in  the  Annex  to  the  EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the  supervisory authority  should establish accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

                                                           

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43 (2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43 (1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43 (2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of  the  Chair,  this period may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  Italian  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “IT  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 27 May 2020. The 
Italian national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the IT SA, once they are approved by the IT SA, following an opinion from the 
Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43 (1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the IT SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation. 

                                                           

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

adopted 

4 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

This assessment of IT SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore  it  will not make  reference  to the text  of the  related document in this Opinion.  As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the IT SA’s 
draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and not 
asking the IT SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the IT SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering any 

deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied by 

the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

9. 

adopted 

5 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board shall issue  an  opinion where  a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  TERMS AND DEFINITIONS 

10. 

The Board notes that, in ‘3 Terms and definitions’, the IT SA defines ‘Client’ as “the data controller or 
data processor applying for certification”. This deviates from ISO 17065, which states that whenever 
the term “client” is used, it applies to both the “applicant” (seeking certification) and the “client” (that 
has been certified). It also deviates from Annex 1 the guidelines on accreditation, which differentiates 
between “applicant” and “client”. The Board encourages the IT SA to delete the definition of “client”, 
and to either use the terms “applicant” and “client” as they are used in Annex 1 of the guidelines on 
accreditation or to use “client” as it is used in ISO 17065. If the IT SA chooses to do the latter, the 
Board encourages the IT SA to add a note that “client” is being used in this manner. 

2.2.2  GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4  of  the draft  accreditation 

requirements) 

11.  With regard to clause 7 of subsection 4.1.2 of the IT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
considers  that  the  wording  is  slightly  unclear  with  regard  to  whom  the  reasons  for  approving 
certification  are  provided.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  IT  SA  to  redraft  it  in  a  way  that 
provides more clarity. 

12.  With regard to subsection 4.3, the Board notes that the draft additional accreditation requirements 
require the certification body to “confirm […] it complies with the payment of pension contributions 
and other allowances; it is not the subject of tax injunction orders […]”. The Board encourages the IT 
SA  to  clarify  why  these  obligations,  which  are  unrelated  to  the  GDPR,  are  included  in  the  draft 
additional accreditation requirements. 

adopted 

6 

2.2.3  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

13. 

14. 

15. 

The Board notes that, in subsection 6.1, the draft additional accreditation requirements of the IT SA 
mostly follows the wording given in Annex 1 of the guidelines on accreditation. However, where Annex 
1 states that certification personnel shall be “registered as applicable” this is omitted in the IT draft 
additional requirements. The Board recommends that the IT SA either reinstates the wording about 
certification  personnel  being  “registered  as  applicable”,  or  clarifies  that  there  is  no  obligation  for 
registration under IT law. 

The Board notes that in subsection 6.1, among the eligibility requirements for personnel responsible 
for certification decisions, it is stated that they “shall not be or have been struck off the respective 
professional registers on account of disciplinary reasons or any other grounds”. The Board encourages 
the IT encourages the IT SA to clarify why having been struck off the professional register on other 
grounds than disciplinary actions would lead to ineligibility.  

The Board notes that, among the eligibility requirements for personnel responsible for certification 
decisions, it is stated that they “shall not be or have been the subject of measures restricting personal 
freedom”. The Board encourages the IT SA to clarify what is meant by “measures restricting personal 
freedom”.  

2.2.4  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Section 7 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

16.  With  regard  to  subsection  7.4  of  the  draft  additional  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 
encourages  the  IT  SA  to  clarify  the  paragraph  on  pre-existing  certification  by  replacing  “previous 
certification activity” by “existing certification” and by clarifying what is meant by “the object of the 
latter”. 

17. 

In the paragraph starting with “in addition to item 7.4.6 of ISO 17065”, the Board notes the wording 
“the CB shall set out in detail in its certification process…”. The Board encourages the IT SA to add that 
the CB shall set this out in a written document which could be either the certification scheme or, if the 
CB isn’t the scheme owner, another document pertaining to the certification process. 

18.  With  regard  to  subsection  7.10  of  the  IT  SA’s  additional  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 
considers that changes in the state of art are relevant and might affect certification. Therefore, the 
Board  encourages  the  IT  SA  to  include  this  possibility  among  the  list  of  changes  that  might  affect 
certification. 

2.2.5  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  REQUIREMENTS  (section  8  of  the  draft  accreditation 

requirements) 

19. 

In  Annex  1  of  the  guidelines  on  accreditation,  chapter  8  starts  with  subsection  “8.1  General 
management system requirements”. In ISO 17065, chapter 8 starts with subsection “8.1 Options”. In 
their draft requirements, the IT SA also uses “8.1 Options”. To maintain the consistency with Annex 1, 
and in order to avoid misinterpretation by providing a clear and unambiguous reference to ISO 17065, 
the Board encourages the IT SA to change the title of subsection 8.1 to “8.1 General management 
system requirements”, and to refer to subsection 8.1 in ISO 17065 by its full title, i.e. “No additional 
requirements are laid down to 8.1 Options of ISO/IEC 17065:2012”. 

7 

adopted 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

20. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  IT  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

21.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the IT SA: 

1)  either  reinstates  the  wording  from  Annex  1  about  certification  personnel  being 
‘registered as applicable’, or clarifies that there is no obligation for registration under 
IT law. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

22. 

This opinion is addressed to the  Italian Supervisory Authority  and will be made  public pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

23.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the IT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the  same  period,  it  shall  provide  the  amended  draft  list  or  where  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

24. 

The IT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

adopted 

8 

