Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under
Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the provision of online

services to data subjects

Adopted on 9 April 2019

Version for public consultation

Adopted - version for public consultation

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1

2

3

Part 1 – Introduction ....................................................................................................................... 3
Background.............................................................................................................................. 3
Scope of these guidelines........................................................................................................ 4
Part 2 - Analysis of Article 6(1)(b).................................................................................................... 5
General observations .............................................................................................................. 5
Interaction of Article 6(1)(b) with other lawful bases for processing ..................................... 6
Scope of Article 6(1)(b)............................................................................................................ 7
Necessity ................................................................................................................................. 7
Necessary for performance of a contract with the data subject ............................................ 7
Termination of contract ........................................................................................................ 10
Necessary for taking steps prior to entering into a contract ................................................ 11
Part 3 – Applicability of Article 6(1)(b) in specific situations......................................................... 12
Processing for ‘service improvement’................................................................................... 12
Processing for ‘fraud prevention’.......................................................................................... 12
Processing for online behavioural advertising ...................................................................... 12
Processing for personalisation of content............................................................................. 13

1.1
1.2

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7

3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4

Adopted - version for public consultation

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

1 PART 1 – INTRODUCTION

1.1 Background

1.

2.

3.

Pursuant to Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, personal data must
be processed fairly for specified purposes and on the basis of a legitimate basis laid down by law. In
this regard, Article 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation1 (GDPR) specifies that processing
shall be lawful only on the basis of one of six specified conditions set out in Article 6(1)(a) to (f).
Identifying the appropriate legal basis is of essential importance. Controllers must take into account
the impact on data subjects’ rights when identifying the appropriate lawful basis so as to fully respect
the principle of fairness.2

Article 6(1)(b) GDPR provides a lawful basis for the processing of personal data to the extent that
“processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order
to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract”.3 This supports the
freedom to conduct a business, which is guaranteed by Article 16 of the Charter, and reflects the fact
that sometimes the contractual obligations towards the data subject cannot be performed without the
data subject providing certain personal data. If the specific processing is part and parcel of delivery of
the requested service, it is in the interests of both parties to process that data, as otherwise the service
could not be provided and the contract could not be performed. However, the ability to rely on this or
one of the other legal bases mentioned in article 6(1) does not exempt the controller from compliance
with the other requirements of the GDPR.

Articles 56 and 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union define and regulate the
freedom to provide services within the European Union. Specific EU legislative measures have been
adopted  in  respect  of  ‘information  society  services’.4 These  services  are  defined  as  “any  service
normally provided for remuneration, at a distance, by electronic means and at the individual request
of a recipient of services.” This definition extends to services that are not paid for directly by the

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General
Data Protection Regulation).
2 Specifically, the controller should take into consideration that the application of certain data subject rights under the GDPR may
vary depending on which legal basis the processing is based on. For example, processing under Article 6(1)(b) may give rise to the
right to data portability under Article 20, but would not give rise to the right to object to processing under Article 21(1) GDPR.
3 See also recital 44.
4 See for example Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Article 8 GDPR.

Adopted - version for public consultation

3

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

persons who receive them,5 such as online services funded through advertising. ‘Online services’ as
used in these guidelines refers to ‘information society services’.

The development of EU law reflects the central importance of online services in modern society. The
proliferation of always-on mobile internet and the widespread availability of connected devices have
enabled  the  development  of  online  services  in  fields  such  as  social  media,  e-commerce,  internet
search, communication, and travel. While some of these services are funded by user payments, others
are  provided  without monetary  payment  by the  consumer,  instead  financed  by  the sale  of online
advertising services allowing for targeting of data subjects. Tracking of user behaviour for the purposes
of such advertising is often carried out in ways the user may not be aware of, and it may not be
immediately obvious from the nature of the service provided, which makes it almost impossible in
practice for the data subject to exercise any control over the use of their data.

Against  this  background,  the  European  Data  Protection  Board6 (EDPB)  considers  it  appropriate  to
provide guidance on the contractual necessity basis for processing personal data in the context of
online services, in order to ensure that this lawful basis is only relied upon where appropriate.

The Article 29 Working Party (“WP29”) has previously expressed views on the contractual necessity
basis  under  Directive  95/46/EC  in  its  opinion on the  notion  of  legitimate  interests  of  the  data
controller.7 Generally, that guidance remains relevant to Article 6(1)(b) and the GDPR.

1.2 Scope of these guidelines

These guidelines are concerned with the applicability of Article 6(1)(b) to processing of personal data
in  the  context  of  contracts  for  online  services,  irrespective  of  how  the  services  are  financed. The
guidelines will outline the elements of lawful processing under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR and consider the
concept of ‘necessity’ as it applies to ’necessary for the performance of a contract’.

Data  protection  rules  govern  important  aspects  of  how  online  services  interact  with  their  users,
however,  other  rules  apply  as  well.  Regulation  of  online  services  involves  cross-functional
responsibilities  in  the  fields  of,
inter  alia, consumer  protection  law,  and  competition  law.
Considerations regarding these fields of law are beyond the scope of these guidelines.

Although Article 6(1)(b) can only apply in a contractual context, these guidelines do not express a view
on the validity of contracts for online services generally, as this is outside the competence of the EDPB.
Nonetheless, contracts and contractual terms must comply with the requirements of contract laws
and, as the case may be for consumer contracts, consumer protection laws in order for processing
based on those terms to be considered fair and lawful.

10.

Some  general  observations  on  data  protection  principles  are  included  below,  but  not  all  data
protection  issues  that may  arise  when  processing  under  Article  6(1)(b)  will  be  elaborated  on.
Controllers must always ensure that they comply with the data protection principles set out in Article
5 and all other requirements of the GDPR and, where applicable, the ePrivacy legislation.

5 See Recital 18 of Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of
information society services, in particular electronic commerce, in the Internal Market.
6 Established under Article 68 GDPR.
7 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive
95/46/EC (WP217). See in particular pages 11, 16, 17, 18 and 55.

Adopted - version for public consultation

4

2 PART 2 - ANALYSIS OF ARTICLE 6(1)(B)

2.1 General observations

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

The lawful basis for processing on the basis of Article 6(1)(b) needs to be considered in the context of
the GDPR as a whole, the objectives set out in Article 1, and alongside controllers’ duty to process
personal data in compliance with the data protection principles pursuant to Article 5. This includes
processing personal data in a fair and transparent manner and in line with the purpose limitation and
data minimisation obligations.

Article 5(1)(a) GDPR provides that personal data must be processed lawfully, fairly and transparently
in relation to the data subject. The principle of fairness includes, inter alia, recognising the reasonable
expectations8 of the data subjects, considering possible adverse consequences processing may have
on them, and having regard to the relationship and potential effects of imbalance between them and
the controller.

As  mentioned,  as  a  matter  of  lawfulness,  contracts  for  online  services  must  be  valid  under  the
applicable contract law. An example of a relevant factor is whether the data subject is a child. In such
a  case  (and  aside  from  complying  with  the  requirements  of  the  GDPR,  including  the  ‘specific
protections’ which apply to children),9 the controller must ensure that it complies with the relevant
national laws on the capacity of children to enter into contracts. Furthermore, to ensure compliance
with the fairness and lawfulness principles, the controller needs to satisfy other legal requirements.
For example, for consumer contracts, Directive 93/13/EEC on unfair terms in consumer contracts (the
“Unfair  Contract  Terms  Directive”)  may  be  applicable.10 Article  6(1)(b)  is  not  limited  to  contracts
governed by the law of an EEA member state.11

Article 5(1)(b) of the GDPR provides for the purpose limitation principle, which requires that personal
data must be collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a
manner that is incompatible with those purposes.

Article 5(1)(c) provides for data minimisation as a principle, i.e. processing as little data as possible in
order to achieve the purpose. This assessment complements the necessity assessments pursuant to
Article 6(1)(b) to (f).

Both  purpose  limitation  and  data  minimisation  principles  are  particularly  relevant  in  contracts  for
online services, which typically are not negotiated on an individual basis. Technological advancements
make it possible for controllers to easily collect and process more personal data than ever before. As
a result, there is an acute risk that data controllers may seek to include general processing terms in

8 Some personal  data are expected to be private or only processed in certain ways, and data processing  should not be
surprising to the data subject. In the GDPR, the concept of ‘reasonable expectations’ is specifically referenced in recitals 47
and 50 in relation to Article 6(1)(f) and (4).
9 See Recital 38, which refers to children meriting specific protection with regard to their personal data as they may be less
aware of the risks, consequences and safeguards concerned and their rights in relation to the processing of personal data.
10 A contractual term that has not been individually negotiated is unfair under the Unfair Contract Terms Directive “if, contrary
to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the
contract,  to  the  detriment  of  the  consumer”.  Like  the  transparency  obligation  in  the  GDPR,  the  Unfair  Contract  Terms
Directive mandates the use of plain, intelligible language. Processing of personal data that is based on what is deemed to be
an unfair term under the Unfair Contract Terms Directive, will generally not be consistent with the requirement under Article
5(1)(a) GDPR that processing is lawful and fair.
11 The GDPR applies to certain controllers outside the EEA; see Article 3 GDPR.

Adopted - version for public consultation

5

contracts in order to maximise the possible collection and uses of data, without adequately specifying
those purposes or considering data minimisation obligations. WP29 has previously stated:

The purpose of the collection must be clearly and specifically identified: it must be detailed
enough to determine what kind of processing is and is not included within the specified purpose,
and to allow that compliance with the law can be assessed and data protection safeguards
applied. For these reasons, a purpose that is vague or general, such as for instance 'improving
users' experience', 'marketing purposes', 'IT-security purposes' or 'future research' will - without
more detail - usually not meet the criteria of being ‘specific’. 12

2.2 Interaction of Article 6(1)(b) with other lawful bases for processing

17. Where  processing  is  not  considered  ‘necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  contract’,  i.e.  when a
requested service can be provided without the specific processing taking place, the EDPB recognises
that another lawful basis may be applicable, provided the relevant conditions are met. In particular, in
some circumstances it may be more appropriate to rely on freely given consent under Article 6(1)(a).
In other instances, Article 6(1)(f) may provide a more appropriate lawful basis for processing. The legal
basis must be identified at the outset of processing, and information given to data subjects in line with
Articles 13 and 14 must specify the legal basis.

18.

19.

20.

It  is  possible that  another  lawful  basis  than  Article 6(1)(b)  may  better match the  objective of  the
processing  or  be  more  appropriate  because  it  better  balances  the  interests  of  the  parties.  The
identification of the appropriate lawful basis is tied to principles of fairness and purpose limitation.13

The WP29 guidelines on consent also clarify that where “a controller seeks to process personal data
that are in fact necessary for the performance of a contract, then consent is not the appropriate lawful
basis”. Conversely,  the  EDPB  considers  that  where  processing  is  not  in  fact necessary  for  the
performance of a contract, such processing can take place only if it relies on another appropriate legal
basis.

In line with their transparency obligations, controllers should make sure to avoid any confusion as to
what the applicable legal basis is. This is particularly relevant where the appropriate legal basis is
Article 6(1)(b) and a contract regarding online services is entered into by data subjects. Depending on
the circumstances, data subjects may erroneously get the impression that they are giving their consent
in line with Article 6(1)(a) when signing a contract or accepting terms of service. At the same time, a
controller might erroneously assume that the signature of a contract corresponds to a consent in the
sense  of  article  6(1)(a).  It  is  important  to  distinguish  between  entering  into  a  contract  and  giving
consent within the meaning of Article 6(1)(a), as these concepts are not the same and have different
implications for data subjects’ rights and expectations.

21.

In relation to the processing of special categories of personal data, in the guidelines on consent, WP29
has also observed that:

Article 9(2) does not recognize ‘necessary for the performance of a contract’ as an exception to
the general prohibition to process special categories of data. Therefore controllers and Member
States  that  deal  with  this  situation  should  explore  the  specific  exceptions  in  Article  9(2)

12 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 15–16.
13 When controllers set out to identify the appropriate legal basis in line with the fairness principle, this will be difficult to
achieve if they have not first clearly identified the purposes of processing, or if processing personal data goes beyond what is
necessary for the specified purposes.

Adopted - version for public consultation

6

22.

23.

24.

25.

subparagraphs  (b)  to  (j).  Should  none  of  the  exceptions  (b)  to  (j)  apply,  obtaining  explicit
consent  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  for  valid  consent  in  the  GDPR  remains  the  only
possible lawful exception to process such data.14

2.3 Scope of Article 6(1)(b)

Article 6(1)(b) applies where either of two conditions are met: the processing in question must be
objectively necessary for the performance of a contract with a data subject, or the processing must be
objectively necessary in order to take pre-contractual steps at the request of a data subject.

2.4 Necessity

Necessity of processing is a prerequisite for both parts of Article 6(1)(b). At the outset, it is important
to note that the concept of what is ‘necessary for the performance of a contract’ is not simply an
assessment of what is permitted by or written into the terms of a contract. The concept of necessity
has  an  independent  meaning  in  European  Union  law,  which  must  reflect  the  objectives  of  data
protection law.15 Therefore, it also involves consideration of the fundamental right to privacy and
protection of  personal  data,16 as  well  as  the  requirements  of  data  protection  principles  including,
notably, the fairness principle.

The starting point is to identify the purpose for the processing, and in the context of a contractual
relationship,  there  may  be  a  variety  of  purposes  for  processing.  Those  purposes  must  be  clearly
specified and communicated to the data subject, in line with the controller’s purpose limitation and
transparency obligations.

Assessing what is ‘necessary’ involves a combined, fact-based assessment of the processing “for the
objective pursued and of whether it is less intrusive compared to other options for achieving the same
goal”.17 If  there  are  realistic,  less  intrusive  alternatives,  the  processing  is  not  ‘necessary’.18 Article
6(1)(b)  will  not  cover  processing  which  is  useful  but  not  objectively  necessary  for  performing  the
contractual service or for taking relevant pre-contractual steps at the request of the data subject, even
if it is necessary for the controller’s other business purposes.

2.5 Necessary for performance of a contract with the data subject

26.

A  controller  can  rely  on  Article  6(1)(b)  to  process  personal  data when it  can,  in  line  with  its
accountability obligations under  Article 5(2),  establish  both  that the  processing  takes  place  in  the
context of a valid contract with the data subject and that processing is necessary in order that the
particular contract with the data subject can be performed. Where controllers cannot demonstrate

14 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 (WP259), endorsed by the EDPB, page 19.
15 The CJEU stated in Huber that “what is at issue is a concept [necessity] which has its own independent meaning in Community
law and which must be interpreted in a manner which fully reflects the objective of that Directive, [Directive 95/46], as laid down

16 See Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
17 See EDPS Toolkit: Assessing the Necessity of Measures that limit the fundamental right to the protection of personal data,
page 5.
18 In Schecke, the CJEU held that, when examining the necessity of processing personal data, the legislature needed to take

in Article 1(1) thereof”. CJEU, Case C‑524/06, Heinz Huber v Bundesrepublik Deutschland, 18 December 2008, para. 52.
into account alternative, less intrusive measures. CJEU, Joined Cases C‑92/09 and C‑93/09, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR
limitations in relation to the protection of personal data must apply only in so far as is strictly necessary”. CJEU, Case C‑13/16,

and Hartmut Eifert v Land Hessen, 9. November 2010. This was repeated by the CJEU in the Rīgas case where it held that “As
regards the condition relating to the necessity of processing personal data, it should be borne in mind that derogations and

Valsts policijas Rīgas reģiona pārvaldes Kārtības policijas pārvalde v Rīgas pašvaldības SIA ‘Rīgas satiksme’, para. 30. A strict
necessary test is required for any limitations on the exercise of the rights to privacy and to personal data protection with
regard to the processing of personal data, see EDPS Toolkit: Assessing the Necessity of Measures that limit the fundamental
right to the protection of personal data, page 7.

Adopted - version for public consultation

7

that (a) a contract exists, (b) the contract is valid pursuant to applicable national contract laws, and (c)
that the processing is objectively necessary for the performance of the contract, the controller should
consider another legal basis for processing.

27. Merely referencing or mentioning data processing in a contract is not enough to bring the processing
in question within the scope of Article 6(1)(b). Where a controller seeks to establish that the processing
is based on the performance of a contract with the data subject, it is important to assess what is
objectively necessary to perform the contract. This is also clear in light of Article 7(4), which makes a
distinction  between  processing  activities  necessary  for the  performance  of  a  contract,  and terms
making the service conditional on certain processing activities that are not in fact necessary for the
performance of the contract. ‘Necessary for performance’ clearly requires something more than a
contractual condition.

28.

In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  endorses  the  guidance  previously  adopted  by  WP29  on  the  equivalent
provision under the previous Directive that ‘necessary for the performance of a contract with the data
subject’:

…  must  be  interpreted  strictly  and  does  not cover  situations  where  the  processing  is  not
genuinely necessary for the performance of a contract, but rather unilaterally imposed on the
data subject by the controller. Also the fact that some processing is covered by a contract does
not automatically mean that the processing is necessary for its performance. […] Even if these
processing activities are specifically mentioned in the small print of the contract, this fact alone
does not make them ‘necessary’ for the performance of the contract.19

29.

The EDPB also recalls the same WP29 guidance stating:

There is a clear connection here between the assessment of necessity and compliance with the
purpose limitation principle. It is important to determine the exact rationale of the contract,
i.e. its substance and fundamental objective, as it is against this that it will be tested whether
the data processing is necessary for its performance.20

30. When assessing whether Article 6(1)(b) is an appropriate legal basis for an online contractual service,
regard should be given to the particular aim, purpose, or objective of the service. For applicability of
Article 6(1)(b), it is required that the processing is objectively necessary for a purpose that is integral
to the delivery of that contractual service to the data subject. Included here is processing of payment
details for the purpose of charging for the service. The controller should be able to demonstrate how
the main object of the specific contract with the data subject cannot, as a matter of fact, be performed
if the specific processing of the personal data in question does not occur. The important issue here is
the nexus between the personal data and processing operations concerned, and the performance or
non-performance of the service provided under the contract.

31.

Contracts for digital services may incorporate express terms that impose additional conditions about
advertising,  payments  or  cookies,  amongst  other  things.  A  contract  cannot  artificially  expand  the
categories of personal data or types of processing operation that the controller needs to carry out for
the performance of the contract within the meaning of Article 6(1)(b).

32.

The controller should be able to justify the necessity of its processing by reference to the fundamental
and mutually understood contractual purpose. This depends not just on the controller’s perspective,

19 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive
95/46/EC (WP217), page 16–17.
20 Ibid., page 17.

Adopted - version for public consultation

8

but also a reasonable data subject’s perspective when entering into the contract, and whether the
contract can still be considered to be ‘performed’ without the processing in question. Although the
controller may consider that the processing is necessary for the contractual purpose, it is important
that they examine carefully the perspective of an average data subject in order to ensure that there is
a genuine mutual understanding on the contractual purpose.

33.

In order to carry out the assessment of whether Article 6(1)(b) is applicable, the following questions
can be of guidance:

 What  is  the  nature  of  the  service  being  provided  to  the  data  subject?  What  are  its

distinguishing characteristics?

 What is the exact rationale of the contract (i.e. its substance and fundamental object)?

 What are the essential elements of the contract?

 What are the mutual perspectives and expectations of the parties to the contract? How is
the service promoted or advertised to the data subject? Would an ordinary user of the
service  reasonably  expect  that,  considering  the  nature  of  the  service,  the  envisaged
processing will take place in order to perform the contract to which they are a party?

34.

If the assessment of what is ‘necessary for the performance of a contract’, which must be conducted
prior to the commencement of processing, shows that the intended processing goes beyond what is
objectively necessary for the performance of a contract, this does not render such future processing
unlawful per se. As already mentioned, Article 6 makes clear that other lawful bases are potentially
available prior to the initiation of the processing.21

Example 1

A data subject buys items from an on-line retailer. The data subject wants to pay by credit card and for
the products to be delivered at home. In order to fulfil the contract, the retailer must process the data
subject’s credit card information and billing address for payment purposes and the data subject’s home
address for delivery. Thus, Article 6(1)(b) is applicable as a legal basis for these processing activities.

However,  if  the  customer  has  opted  for  shipment  to  a  pick-up  point,  the  processing  of the  data
subject’s home address is no longer necessary for the performance of the purchase contract and thus
a different legal basis than Article 6(1)(b) is required.

Example 2

The same on-line retailer wishes to build profiles of the user’s tastes and lifestyle choices based on
their visits to the website. Completion of the purchase contract is not dependent upon building such
profiles. Even if profiling is specifically mentioned in the contract, this fact alone does not make it
‘necessary’ for the performance of the contract. If the on-line retailer wants to carry out such profiling,
it needs to rely on a different legal basis.

21 See Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 (WP259), endorsed by the EDPB, page 31,
in which it is stated that: “Under the GDPR, it is not possible to swap between one lawful basis and another.”

Adopted - version for public consultation

9

35. Within the boundaries of contractual law, and if applicable, consumer law, controllers are free to
design their business, services and contracts. In some cases, a controller may wish to bundle several
separate services or elements of a service with different fundamental purposes, features or rationale
into one contract. This may create a ‘take it or leave it’ situation for data subjects who may only be
interested in one of the services.

36.

37.

As a matter of data protection law, controllers need to take into account that the processing activities
foreseen must have an appropriate legal basis. Where the contract consists of several separate services
or elements of a service that can in fact reasonably be performed independently of one another, the
question  arises  to  which  extent  Article  6(1)(b)  can  serve  as  a  legal  basis.  In  line  with  the  fairness
principle, the applicability of Article 6(1)(b) should be assessed in the context of each of those services
separately, looking at what is objectively necessary to perform each of the individual services which
the data subject has actively requested or signed up for. This assessment may reveal that certain
processing activities are not necessary for the individual services requested by the data subject, but
rather necessary for the controller’s wider business model. In that case, Article 6(1)(b) will not be a
legal basis for those activities. However, other legal bases may be available for that processing, such
as Article 6(1)(a) or (f), provided that the relevant criteria are met. Therefore, the assessment of the
applicability of Article 6(1)(b) does not affect the legality of the contract or the bundling of services as
such.

As WP29 has previously observed, the legal basis only applies to what is necessary for the performance
of  a  contract.22 As  such,  it  does  not  automatically  apply  to  all  further  actions  triggered  by  non-
compliance or to all other incidents in the execution of a contract. However, certain actions can be
reasonably foreseen and necessary within a normal contractual relationship, such as sending formal
reminders  about  outstanding  payments  or  bringing  a  contract  back  in  conformity  after  smaller
incidents  and  issues.  Article  6(1)(b)  may  cover  processing  of  personal  data  which  is  necessary  in
relation to such actions.23

2.6 Termination of contract

38.

A  controller  needs to  identify  the  appropriate  legal basis  for  the  envisaged  processing  operations
before  the  processing  commences.  Where  Article  6(1)(b)  is  the  basis  for  some  or  all  processing
activities, the controller should anticipate what happens if that contract is terminated.24

39. Where processing of personal data is based on Article 6(1)(b) and the contract is terminated in full,
then as a general rule, the processing of that data will no longer be necessary for the performance of
that  contract  and  thus  the  controller  will  need  to  stop  processing. The  data  subject  might  have
provided their personal data in the context of a contractual relationship trusting that the data would
only be processed as a necessary part of that relationship. Hence, it is generally unfair to swap to a
new legal basis when the original basis ceases to exist.

22 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of
Directive 95/46/EC (WP217) page 17–18.
23 Contractual warranty is part of performing a contract, and thus storing certain data for a specified retention time after
exchange of goods/services/payment has been finalised for the purpose of warranties may be necessary for the performance
of a contract.
24 If  a  contract  is  subsequently  invalidated,  it  will  impact  the  lawfulness  (as  understood  in  Article  5(1)(a))  of  continued
processing. However, it does not automatically imply that the choice of Article 6(1)(b) as the legal basis was incorrect.

Adopted - version for public consultation

10

40.

41.

42.

However, there are instances where it is fair to rely on a new legal basis after the contract has been
terminated – notably, a data subject may have given their consent to processing after termination, in
line with the requirements for valid consent.25

Article 17(1)(a)  provides that  personal data  shall be  erased when  they are  no longer  necessary  in
relation to the purposes for which they were collected. Nonetheless, this does not apply if processing
is necessary for certain specific purposes, including compliance with a legal obligation pursuant to
Article 17(3)(b), or the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims, pursuant to Article 17(3)(e).
In practice, if controllers see a general need to keep records for legal purposes, they need to identify
a legal basis at the outset of processing, and they need to communicate clearly from the start for how
long they plan to retain records for these legal purposes after the termination of a contract. If they do
so, they do not need to delete the data upon the termination of the contract.

In any case, it may be that related processing activities with separate purposes and legal bases were
identified at the outset of processing. As long as those processing activities remain lawful and the
controller communicated clearly about those activities at the commencement of processing in line
with the transparency obligations of the GDPR, it will still be possible to process personal data about
the data subject for those separate purposes after the contract has been terminated.

Example 3

An online service provides a subscription service that can be cancelled at any time. When a contract
for the service is concluded, the controller provides information to the data subject on the processing
of personal data.

The controller explains, inter alia, that as long as the contract is in place, it will process data about the
use of the service to issue invoices. The applicable legal basis is Article 6(1)(b) as the processing for
invoicing purposes can be considered to be objectively necessary for the performance of the contract.
However, when the contract is terminated and assuming there are no pending, relevant legal claims
or legal requirements to retain the data, the usage history will be deleted.

Furthermore, the controller informs data subjects that it has a legal obligation in national law to retain
certain personal data for accounting purposes for a specified number of years. The appropriate legal
basis is Article 6(1)(c), and retention will take place even if the contract is terminated.

2.7 Necessary for taking steps prior to entering into a contract

43.

The alternative condition for the application of Article 6(1)(b) is where processing is necessary in order
to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract. This provision reflects
the fact that preliminary processing of personal data may be necessary before entering into a contract
in order to facilitate the actual entering into that contract.

44.

In any case, this provision would not cover unsolicited marketing or other processing which is carried
out solely on the initiative of the data controller, or at the request of a third party.

25 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 (WP259), endorsed by the EDPB.

Adopted - version for public consultation

11

Example 4

A data subject provides their postal code to see if a particular service provider operates in their area.
This can be regarded as processing necessary to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to
entering into a contract pursuant to Article 6(1)(b).

Example 5

In some cases, financial institutions have a duty to identify their customers pursuant to national laws.
In line with this, before entering into a contract with data subjects, a bank requests to see their identity
documents.

In this case, the identification is necessary for a legal obligation on behalf of the bank rather than to
take steps at the data subject’s request. Therefore, the appropriate legal basis is not Article 6(1)(b),
but Article 6(1)(c).

3 PART 3 – APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE 6(1)(B) IN SPECIFIC

SITUATIONS

3.1 Processing for ‘service improvement’

45. Online services often collect detailed information on how users engage with their service. In most
cases, collection of organisational metrics relating to a service, or details of user engagement, cannot
be regarded as necessary for the provision of the service as the service could be delivered in the
absence of processing such personal data. Nevertheless, a service provider may be able to rely on
alternative lawful bases for this processing, such as legitimate interest or consent.

46.

The EDPB does not consider that Article 6(1)(b) would generally be an appropriate lawful basis for
processing for the purposes of improving a service or developing new functions within an existing
service. In most cases, a user enters into a contract to avail of an existing service. While the possibility
of improvements and modifications to a service may routinely be included in contractual terms, such
processing  usually cannot  be  regarded  as  being  objectively  necessary  for  the  performance  of  the
contract with the user.

3.2 Processing for ‘fraud prevention’

47.

As WP29 has previously noted,26 processing for fraud prevention purposes may involve monitoring and
profiling customers. In the view of the EDPB, such processing is likely to go beyond what is objectively
necessary for the performance of a contract with a data subject. Such processing could however still
be lawful under another basis in Article 6, such as legal obligation or legitimate interests.

3.3 Processing for online behavioural advertising

26 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of
Directive 95/46/EC (WP217), page 17.

Adopted - version for public consultation

12

48. Online behavioural advertising, and associated tracking and profiling of data subjects, is often used to

finance online services. WP29 has previously stated its view on such processing, stating:

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

[contractual necessity] is not a suitable legal ground for building a profile of the user’s tastes
and lifestyle choices based on his clickstream on a website and the items purchased. This is
because the data controller has not been contracted to carry out profiling, but rather to deliver
particular goods and services, for example.27

As a general rule, behavioural advertising does not constitute a necessary element of online services.
Normally, it would be hard to argue that the contract had not been performed because there were no
behavioural ads. This is all the more supported by the fact that data subjects have the absolute right
under Article 21 to object to processing of their data for direct marketing purposes.

Further to this, Article 6(1)(b) cannot provide a lawful basis for online behavioural advertising simply
because such advertising indirectly funds the provision of the service. Although such processing may
support the delivery of a service, it is separate from the objective purpose of the contract between the
user and the service provider, and therefore not necessary for the performance of the contract at
issue.

Considering  that  data  protection  is  a  fundamental  right  guaranteed  by  Article 8  of  the Charter of
Fundamental Rights, and taking into account that one of the main purposes of the GDPR is to provide
data subjects with control over information relating to them, personal data cannot be considered as a
tradeable commodity.  Data subjects can agree to processing of their personal data, but cannot trade
away their fundamental rights.28

The  EDPB  also  notes  that,  in  line  with  ePrivacy  requirements  and  the  existing  WP29  opinion  on
behavioural advertising,29 and Working Document 02/2013 providing guidance on obtaining consent
for cookies,30 controllers must obtain data subjects’ prior consent to place the cookies necessary to
engage in behavioural advertising.

The  EDPB  also  notes  that  tracking  and  profiling  of  users  may  be  carried  out  for  the  purpose  of
identifying groups of individuals with similar characteristics, to enable targeting advertising to similar
audiences. Such processing cannot be carried out on the basis of Article 6(1)(b), as it cannot be said to
be objectively necessary for the performance of the contract with the user to track and compare users’
characteristics and behaviour for purposes which relate to advertising to other individuals.31

3.4 Processing for personalisation of content

The  EDPB  acknowledges  that  personalisation  of  content may (but  does  not  always)  constitute  an
essential or expected element of certain online services, and therefore may be regarded as necessary
for the performance of the contract with the service user in some cases. Whether such processing can
be  regarded  as  an  intrinsic  aspect  of  an  online  service,  will depend  on  the  nature  of  the  service
provided, the expectations of the average data subject in light not only of the terms of service but also

27 Ibid.
28 Besides the fact that the use of personal data is regulated by the GDPR, there are additional reasons why processing of
personal data is conceptually different from monetary payments. For example, money is countable, meaning that prices can
be  compared  in  a  competitive  market,  and  monetary  payments  can  normally  only  be  made  with  the  data  subject’s
involvement. Furthermore, personal data can be exploited by several services at the same time. Once control over one’s
personal data has been lost, that control may not necessarily be regained.
29 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 2/2010 on online behavioural advertising (WP171).
30 Article 29 Working Party Working Document 02/2013 providing guidance on obtaining consent for cookies (WP208).
31 See also Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling for the purposes of
Regulation 2016/679 (WP251rev.01), endorsed by the EDPB, page 13.

Adopted - version for public consultation

13

the  way  the  service  is  promoted  to  users,  and  whether  the  service  can  be  provided  without
personalisation. Where personalisation of content is not objectively necessary for the purpose of the
underlying contract, for example where personalised content delivery is intended to increase user
engagement with a service but is not an integral part of using the service, data controllers should
consider an alternative lawful basis where applicable.

Example 6

An online news site offers a news aggregation service to users. The service chosen by the user consists
of providing the users with tailored content from multiple online sources through a single interface.
To do this, it asks users to create a profile of their interests.

In  this  case,  personalisation  for  the  purpose  of  content  delivery  may  be  regarded as  objectively
necessary  for  the  performance  of  the  contract  between  the  company  and  the  user,  because  the
function of the service directly relates to personalised content. As such, Article 6(1)(b) may form an
applicable legal basis.

Example 7

An online hotel search engine monitors past bookings of users in order to create a profile of their
typical expenditure. This profile is subsequently used to recommend particular hotels to the user when
returning search results. In this case, profiling of user’s past behaviour and financial data would not be
objectively necessary for the performance of a contract, i.e. the provision of hospitality services based
on particular search criteria provided by the user. Therefore, Article 6(1)(b) would not be applicable to
this processing activity.

Example 8

An online marketplace allows potential buyers to browse for and purchase products. The marketplace
wishes to display personalised product suggestions based on which listings the potential buyers have
previously  viewed on  the  platform  in  order  to  increase  interactivity.  This  personalisation  it  is  not
objectively  necessary  to  provide  the  marketplace  service.  Thus,  such  processing  of  personal  data
cannot rely on Article 6(1)(b) as a legal basis.

Adopted - version for public consultation

14

