 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying 

certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of 

the Regulation 2016/679 

 

Adopted on 23 January 2019 

Corrigendum adopted on 9 April 20191 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

                                                           
1 Paragraph 45 

Adopted 

1 

 

 

Adopted 

2 

Table of contents 

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

Scope of the guidelines ........................................................................................................... 5 

The purpose of certification under the GDPR ......................................................................... 6 

Key concepts ............................................................................................................................ 7 

1.3.1 

1.3.2 

Interpretation of “certification” ...................................................................................... 7 

Certification mechanisms, seals and marks .................................................................... 7 

2 

The role of the supervisory authorities ........................................................................................... 8 

2.1 

2.2 

Supervisory Authority as certification body ............................................................................ 9 

Supervisory Authority’s further tasks regarding certification ................................................. 9 

The role of a certification body ..................................................................................................... 10 

The approval of certification criteria ............................................................................................. 11 

3 

4 

4.1 

4.2 

Approval of criteria by the competent supervisory authority .............................................. 11 

Approval of criteria by EDPB for the European Data Protection Seal ................................... 11 

4.2.1 

4.2.2 

4.2.3 

Application for approval ................................................................................................ 12 

European Data Protection Seal criteria ......................................................................... 12 

Role of accreditation ..................................................................................................... 13 

5 

The development of certification criteria ..................................................................................... 14 

5.1  What can be certified under the GDPR? ............................................................................... 14 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

5.5 

Determining the object of certification ................................................................................. 15 

Evaluation methods and methodology of assessment ......................................................... 17 

Documentation of assessment .............................................................................................. 18 

Documentation of results ...................................................................................................... 18 

6 

Guidance for defining certification criteria ................................................................................... 19 

6.1 

6.2 

6.3 

 
 

 

 

Adopted 

Existing standards .................................................................................................................. 19 

Defining criteria ..................................................................................................................... 20 

Lifetime of certification criteria ............................................................................................. 20 

 

3 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 
 

Having considered the results of the public consultation that took place between 30 May 2018 and 12 
July 2018, as per Article 70 (4) of the GDPR, 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

 

1. INTRODUCTION 

2.  The  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (Regulation  2016/279,  ‘the  GDPR’,  or  ‘the 
Regulation’),  provides  a  modernised,  accountability  and  fundamental  rights  compliance 
framework for data protection in Europe. A range of measures that facilitate compliance with 
the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  are  central  to  this  new  framework.  These  include  mandatory 
requirements in specific circumstances (including the appointment of Data Protection Officers 
and carrying out data protection impact assessments) and voluntary measures such as codes 
of conduct and certification mechanisms.  

3.  Before the adoption of the GDPR, the Article 29 Working Party established that certification 
could play an important role in the accountability framework for data protection.2 In order for 
certification  to  provide  reliable  evidence  of  data  protection  compliance,  clear  rules  setting 
forth requirements for the provision of certification should be in place.3 Article 42 of the GDPR 
provides the legal basis for the development of such rules.  

4.  Article 42(1) of the GDPR provides that: 

 
“The Member States, the supervisory authorities, the [European Data Protection] Board and 
the European Commission shall encourage, in particular at the Union level, the establishment 
of data protection certification mechanisms and of data protection seals and marks, for the 
purpose  of  demonstrating  compliance  with  this  Regulation  of  processing  operations  by 
controllers and processors. The specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises 
shall be taken into account”.  

                                                           
2 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 3/2010 on the principle of accountability, WP173, 13 July 2010, paragraphs 
69-71. 
3 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 3/2010 on the principle of accountability (WP173), paragraph 69. 

4 

Adopted 

5.  Certification mechanisms4 can improve transparency for data subjects, but also in business-
to-business  relations,  for  example  between  controllers  and  processors.  Recital  100  of  the 
GDPR states that the establishment of certification mechanisms can enhance transparency and 
compliance with the Regulation and allow data subjects to assess the level of data protection 
of relevant products and services.5 

6.  The GDPR  does  not  introduce  a right to or an obligation of certification for controllers and 
processors; as per Article 42(3), certification is a voluntary process to assist in demonstrating 
compliance with the GDPR. Member States and supervisory authorities are called to encourage 
the  establishment  of  certification  mechanisms  and  will  determine  the  stakeholder 
engagement in the certification process and lifecycle.  

7.  Furthermore,  the  adherence  to  approved  certification  mechanisms  is  a  factor  supervisory 
authorities must consider as an aggravating or mitigating factor when deciding to impose an 
administrative fine and when deciding on the amount of the fine (Article 83.2(j)).6  

 

1.1  Scope of the guidelines 
 

8.  These guidelines  are  limited in scope; they are  not  a procedural manual for certification in 
accordance  with  the  GDPR.  The  primary  aim  of  these  guidelines  is  to  identify  overarching 
requirements and criteria that may be relevant to all types of certification mechanisms issued 
in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the GDPR. To this end, the guidelines: 

  explore the rationale for certification as an accountability tool; 

  explain the key concepts of the certification provisions in Articles 42 and 43; and 

  explain the scope of what can be certified under Articles 42 and 43 and the purpose 

of certification; 

 

facilitate  that  the  outcome  of  certification 
reproducible as possible and comparable regardless of the certifier (comparability). 

is  meaningful,  unambiguous,  as 

9.  The  GDPR  allows  for  a  number  of  ways  for  Member  States  and  supervisory  authorities  to 
implement  Articles  42  and  43.  The  guidelines  provide  advice  on  the  interpretation  and 
implementation  of  the  provisions  in  Articles  42  and  43  and  will  help  Member  States, 
supervisory  authorities  and  national  accreditation  bodies  establish  a  more  consistent, 
harmonised approach for the implementation of certification mechanisms in accordance with 
the GDPR.  

10. The advice contained in the guidelines will be relevant for: 

                                                           
4 These guidelines will refer to certification mechanisms and data protection seals and marks collectively as 
‘certification mechanisms’, see section 1.3.2. 
5 Recital 100 states that the establishment of certification mechanisms should be encouraged to ‘enhance 
transparency and compliance with the Regulation, allowing data subjects to quickly assess the level of data 
protection of relevant products and services’. 
6 See Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines for the 
purposes of the Regulation 2016/679 (WP 253).  

Adopted 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competent  supervisory  authorities  and  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (‘the 
EDPB’) when approving certification criteria under Article 42(5), Article 58(3)(f) and 
Article 70(1)(o); 

certification bodies when drafting and revising certification criteria prior to submission 
to the competent supervisory authority for approval as per Article 42(5); 

the EDPB when approving a European Data Protection Seal under Articles 42(5) and 
70(1)(o); 

supervisory authorities, when drafting their own certification criteria; 

the  European  Commission,  which  is  empowered  to  adopt  delegated  acts  for  the 
purpose  of  specifying  the  requirements  to  be  taken  into  account  for  certification 
mechanisms under Article 43(8); 

the  EDPB  when  providing  the  European  Commission  with  an  opinion  on  the 
certification requirements in accordance with Article 70(1)(q) and Article 43(8); 

  national accreditation bodies, which will need to take into account certification criteria 
with a view to the accreditation of certification bodies in accordance with EN-ISO/IEC 
17065/2012 and the additional requirements in accordance with Article 43; and 

 

controllers  and  processors  when  defining  their  own GDPR  compliance  strategy  and 
considering certification as a means to demonstrate compliance. 

11. The EDPB will publish separate guidelines to address the identification of criteria to approve 
certification mechanisms as transfer tools to third countries or international organisations in 
accordance with Article 42(2). 

 

1.2 

  The purpose of certification under the GDPR 

 

12. Article 42(1) provides that certification mechanisms shall be established “for the purpose of 
demonstrating compliance with this Regulation of processing operations by controllers and 
processors”.   

13. The GDPR exemplifies the context in which approved certification mechanisms may be used 
as an element to demonstrate compliance with obligations of the controllers and processors 
concerning: 

 

 

the  implementation and demonstration of appropriate technical and organisational 
measures as referred in Articles 24(1),(3), 25, and 32(1), (3); 

sufficient guarantees (processor to controller) as referred to in paragraphs 1 and (sub-
processor to processor) 4 of Article 28(5).  

14. Since certification does not prove compliance in and of itself but rather forms an element that 
can  be  used  to  demonstrate  compliance,  it  should  be  produced  in  a  transparent  manner. 
Demonstration of compliance requires supporting documentation, specifically written reports 
which not only repeat but describe how the criteria are met and if not initially met, describe 
the corrections and corrective actions and their appropriateness, thus providing the reasons 

Adopted 

6 

for  granting  and  maintaining  the  certification.  This  includes  the  outline  of  the  individual 
decision for granting, renewing, or withdrawing of a certificate. It should provide the reasons, 
arguments,  and  proofs  resulting  from  the  application  of  criteria  and  the  conclusions, 
judgments, or inferences from facts or premises collected during certification. 

 

1.3  Key concepts 
 

15. The following section explores the key concepts in Articles 42 and 43. This analysis develops 

an understanding of basic terms and the scope of certification under the GDPR. 

 

1.3.1 

Interpretation of “certification” 

 

16. The  GDPR  does  not  define  “certification”.  The  International  Standards  Organisation  (ISO) 
provides a universal definition of certification as “the  provision by an independent body of 
written assurance (a certificate) that the product, service or system in question meets specific 
requirements.”  Certification  is  also  known  as  “third  party  conformity  assessment”  and 
certification bodies can also be referred to as “conformity assessment bodies” (CABs).  In EN-
ISO/IEC 17000:2004 - Conformity assessment -- Vocabulary and general principles (to which 
ISO17065  refers)  -  certification  is  defined  in  the  following  terms:  “third  party  attestation… 
related to products, processes, and services”. 

17. Attestation is an ‘issue of a statement, based on a decision following review, that fulfilment of 

specific requirements has been demonstrated’ (section 5.2, ISO 17000:2004). 

18. In the context of certification under Articles 42 and 43 of the GDPR, certification shall refer to 

third party attestation related to processing operations by controllers and processors. 

 

1.3.2  Certification mechanisms, seals and marks 
 

19. The GDPR does not define “certification mechanisms, seals or marks”  – and uses the terms 
collectively. A certificate is a statement of conformity.  A seal or mark can be used to signify 
the successful completion of the certification procedure. A seal or mark commonly refers to a 
logo  or  symbol  whose  presence  (in  addition  to  a  certificate)  indicates  that  the  object  of 
certification has been independently  assessed in a certification procedure and conforms to 
specified  requirements,  stated  in  normative  documents  such  as  regulations,  standards  or 
technical specifications.  These requirements in the context of certification under the GDPR 
are  set  out  in  the  additional  requirements  that  supplement  the  rules  for  accreditation  of 
certification bodies in EN-ISO/IEC 17065/2012 and the certification criteria approved by the 
competent supervisory authority or the Board. A certificate, seal or mark under the GDPR can 
only  be  issued  following  the  independent  assessment  of  evidence  by  an  accredited 
certification  body  or  competent  supervisory  authority,  stating  that  the  certification  criteria 
have been satisfied.  

 

Adopted 

7 

20. The table provides a generic example of a certification process. 

 

 

 

2  THE ROLE OF THE SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES 

 

21. Article 42(5) provides that certification shall be issued by an accredited certification body or 
by a competent supervisory authority. The GDPR does not make the issuance of certifications 
a mandatory task of the supervisory authorities.  Instead, the GDPR allows for a number of 
different  models.  For  example,  a  supervisory  authority  may  decide  for  one  or  more  of  the 
following options: 

 

 

 

issue certification itself, in respect of its own certification scheme; 

issue certification itself, in respect of its own certification scheme, but delegate whole 
or part of the assessment process to third parties; 

create  its  own  certification  scheme,  and  entrust  certification  bodies  with  the 
certification procedure which issue the certification; and 

  encourage the market to develop certification mechanisms. 

22. A supervisory authority will also have to consider its role in the light of the decisions made at 
the  national  level  concerning  accreditation  mechanisms  –  in  particular  if  the  supervisory 
authority itself is empowered to accredit certification bodies under Article 43(1) GDPR. Thus 
each supervisory authority will determine which approach to take in order to pursue the broad 
intent of certification under the GDPR. This will be determined in the context of not only the 
tasks and powers in Articles 57 and 58, but also in accounting for certification as a factor to be 
taken  into  account  in  determining  administrative  fines,  and  more  generally  as  a  means  of 
demonstrating compliance. 

8 

Adopted 

2.1  Supervisory Authority as certification body 
 

23. Where a supervisory authority chooses to conduct certification, it will have to carefully assess 
its role with respect to its assigned tasks under the GDPR. Its role should be transparent in the 
exercise  of  its  functions.  It  will  need  to  give  consideration  specifically  to  the  separation  of 
powers relating to investigations and enforcement in order to avoid any potential conflicts of 
interest.  

24. When acting as a certification body a supervisory authority will have to ensure the proper set 
up of a certification mechanism and develop its own or adopt certification criteria. In addition, 
every supervisory authority which issues certifications has the task to periodically review them 
(Article 57(1)(o)) and the power to withdraw them where the requirements for certification 
are not or no longer met (Article 58(2)(h)). To meet these requirements, it is useful to set up a 
certification  procedure  and  process  requirements,  and,  if  not  stipulated  otherwise  e.g.  by 
national law, put  in place a legally enforceable agreement for the  provision of certification 
activities with the individual applicant organisation. It should be ensured that this certification 
agreement requires the applicant  to comply at least  with the certification criteria including 
necessary arrangements to conduct the evaluation, monitoring adherence to the criteria, and 
periodic  review  including  access  to  information  and/or  premises,  documentation  and 
publication of reports and results, and investigation of complaints. Further, it is expected that 
a  supervisory  authority  will  follow  the  requirements  in  the  guidelines  for  accreditation  of 
certification bodies in addition to the requirements pursuant to Article 43(2). 

 

2.2  Supervisory Authority’s further tasks regarding certification 
 

25. In Member States where certification bodies become active, the supervisory authority has the 

power and task irrespective of its own activities: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to assess a certification scheme’s criteria and make a draft decision (Article 42(5)); 

to communicate to the Board the draft decision when it intends to approve the criteria 
for  certification  (Article  64(1)(c),  64(7))  and  consider  the  Board’s  opinion  (Article 
64(1)(c) and 70(1)(t)); 

to  approve  the  criteria  for  certification  (Article  58(3)(f))  before  accreditation  and 
certification can take place (Article 42(5) and 43(2)(b));  

to publish the certification criteria (Article 43(6);  

to act as competent authority for EU wide certification schemes, which may result in 
an EDPB approved European Data Protection Seals (Articles 42(5) and Article 70(1)(o); 
and 

to  order  a  certification  body  (a)  not  to  issue  certification  or  (b)  to  withdraw 
certification  where  the  requirements  for  certification  (certification  procedures  or 
criteria) are not or are no longer met (Article 58(2)(h).  

 

Adopted 

9 

26. The  GPDR  tasks the  supervisory  authority  with  approving  certification  criteria but  not  with 
developing criteria. In order to approve certification criteria under Article 42(5), a supervisory 
authority should have a clear understanding of what to expect, specifically in terms of scope 
and  content  for  demonstrating  compliance  with  the  GDPR  and  with  regard  to  its  task  to 
monitor and enforce the application of the regulation. The annex provides guidance to ensure 
a harmonized approach when assessing criteria for the purpose of approval. 

27. Article 43(1) requires certification bodies to inform their supervisory authority before issuing 
or  renewing  certifications  to  allow  the  competent  supervisory  authority  to  exercise  its 
corrective  powers  under  point  (h)  of  Article  58(2).  Additionally,  Article  43(5)  also  requires 
certification  bodies  to  provide  the  competent  supervisory  authority  with  the  reasons  for 
granting or withdrawing the requested certification. Although the GDPR allows for supervisory 
authorities to determine how to receive, acknowledge, review and deal with this information 
operationally (for example, this could include technological solutions to enable reporting by 
certification bodies), a process and criteria to process the information and reports provided 
on each successful certification project by the certification body according to Article 43(1) may 
be  put  in place. On the  basis of this information, the supervisory  authority can exercise  its 
power to order the certification body to withdraw or not issue a certification (Article 58(2)(h)) 
and to monitor and enforce the application of the requirements and criteria of certification 
under the GDPR (Article 57(1)(a) and 58(2)(h)). This will support a harmonized approach and 
comparability in certification by different certification bodies and that information about an 
organisation's certification status is known by supervisory authorities. 

 

3  THE ROLE OF A CERTIFICATION BODY 

 

28. A certification body’s role is to issue, review, renew, and withdraw certifications (Article 42(5), 
(7))  on  the  basis  of  a  certification  mechanism  and  approved  criteria  (Article  43(1)).  This 
requires  the  certification  body  or  a  certification  scheme  owner    to  determine  and  set  up 
certification  criteria  and  certification  procedures,  including  procedures  for  monitoring  of 
adherence,  reviewing,  handling  complaints,  and  withdrawal.  The  certification  criteria  are 
reviewed as part of the accreditation process, which considers the rules and procedures under 
which certifications, seals, or marks are issued (Article 43(2)(c)).  

29. The  existence  of  a  certification  mechanism  and  certification  criteria  are  necessary  for  the 
certification  body  to  achieve  accreditation  under  Article  43.  A  major  impact  on  what  a 
certification body does arises from the scope and type of certification criteria which have an 
impact on the certification procedures and vice versa. Specific criteria may for example require 
specific methods of evaluation, such as on-site inspections and code review. These procedures 
are mandatory for accreditation and are further explained in the guidelines on accreditation.  

30. The  certification  body  is  required  by  the  GDPR  to  provide  supervisory  authorities  with 
information,  especially  on  individual  certifications,  which  is  necessary  to  monitor  the 
application of the certification mechanism (Article 42(7), 43(5), 58(2)(h)). 

Adopted 

10 

4  THE APPROVAL OF CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 

31. The certification criteria form an integral part of any certification mechanism. Consequently, 
the GDPR  requires the  approval of certification criteria of a certification mechanism by the 
competent supervisory authority (Articles 42(5) and 43(2)(b)). Or in the case of a European 
Data Protection Seal, certification criteria is approved by the EDPB (Articles 42(5) and 70(1)(o)). 
Both routes for approval of certification criteria are explained below. 

32. The EDPB recognizes the following purposes for approval of certification criteria: 

 

to  properly  reflect  the  requirements  and  principles  concerning  the  protection  of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data laid down in Regulation 
(EU) 2016/679; and 

 

to contribute to the consistent application of the GDPR. 

33. Approval is granted on the basis of the GDPR requirement that the certification mechanism 
enables controllers and processors to demonstrate compliance with the GDPR is fully reflected 
in the certification criteria. 

 

4.1  Approval of criteria by the competent supervisory authority 
 

34. Certification criteria must be approved by the competent supervisory authority prior or during 
the  accreditation  process  for  a  certification  body.  Approval  is  also  required  for  updated  or 
additional schemes or sets of criteria under ISO 17065 by the same certification body, prior to 
their use of the amended certification mechanisms (Articles 42(5) and 43(2)(b)). Supervisory 
authorities  shall  treat  all  requests  for  approval  of  certification  criteria  in  a  fair  and  non-
discriminatory  way,  according  to  a  publicly  available  procedure  specifying  the  general 
conditions to be met and the description of the approval process. 

35. A certification body can only  issue certification in a particular Member State in accordance 
with the criteria approved by the supervisory authority in that Member State. In other words, 
certification criteria need to be approved by the competent supervisory authority where the 
certification  body  aims  to  offer  certification  and  obtains  the  accreditation.  See  the  section 
below for European wide certification schemes.  

 

4.2  Approval of criteria by EDPB for the European Data Protection Seal 
 

36. A certification body can also issue certification in accordance with criteria approved by the 
EDPB  for  a  European  Data  Protection  Seal.  Certification  criteria  approved  by  the  EDPB 
pursuant to Article 63 may result in a European Data Protection Seal (Article 42(5)). In light of 
existing certification and accreditation conventions, the EDPB acknowledges that it is desirable 
to avoid fragmentation of the data protection certification market. It notes that Article 42(1) 
provides  that  Member  States,  supervisory  authorities,  the Board  and  the Commission  shall 
encourage the establishment of certification mechanisms, in particular at Union level.  

 

Adopted 

11 

4.2.1  Application for approval 
 

37. The  application  for  approval  of  criteria  pursuant  to Article 42(5)  and 70(1)(o), by  the  EDPB 
must be submitted through a competent supervisory authority and should state the intention 
of  the  scheme  owner,  candidate  or  accredited  certification  body    to  offer  the  criteria  in  a 
certification  mechanism  addressing  controllers  and  processors  in  all  Member  States.  The 
competent supervisory authority will provide a draft to the EDPB when it considers that the 
criteria could be approved by the EDPB.  

38. The  choice  of  where  to  submit  an  application  for  approval  of  criteria  will  be  based  on  the 

certification scheme owners or the certification bodies headquarters.  

39. If a certification body submits an application, it would normally be in the process of applying 
for accreditation or already accredited by either the competent supervisory authority or the 
national  accreditation  body  of  its  Member  State.  Where  the  certification  body  is  already 
accredited  for  a  GDPR  certification  mechanism,  this  may  help  streamline  the  approvals 
process. 

 

4.2.2  European Data Protection Seal criteria 
 

40. The EDPB will co-ordinate the assessment process and approve the European Data Protection 
Seal criteria as required. The assessment will address such areas as: the criteria’s scope and 
the ability to serve as a common certification. Where the criteria are approved by the EDPB, 
the  competent  supervisory  authority  for  the  EU  headquarters  of  the  certification  body  is 
expected to handle complaints about the mechanism itself and inform the other supervisory 
authorities.  This  supervisory  authority  is  also  competent  to  take  measures  against  the 
certification body. As the case may  be, the  competent  supervisory  authority will notify the 
other supervisory authorities and the EDPB.  

41. Certification criteria addressing a common certification are subject to EU-wide demands and 
should  provide  a  specific  mechanism  to  cope  with  these  demands.  European  certification 
mechanisms  must  be  intended  for  use  in  all  Member  States.  Based  on  Article  42(5)  the 
mechanism for a European Data Protection Seal as well as its criteria needs to be customisable 
in a way as to take into account national sector specific regulations where applicable, e. g., for 
data processing in schools  and shall envisage a European-wide application.  

42. Example: An international School offering schooling to data subjects in the Union is based in 
Member State “A”. The school wishes to certify its online application process with an EU-wide 
certification scheme to earn a European Data Protection Seal. This school aims to apply for 
certification of processing operations offered by a certification body established in Member 
State  “B”  on  the  basis  of  a  European  Data  Protection  Seal.  The  Seal  criteria  designed  and 
documented in the relevant mechanism must be able to take into account the regulations for 
schools applicable in Member State “A”. The criteria should also require the school’s online 
application process to provide information and take account of the applicable Member State 
data protection requirements that may differ in other Member States An example is sets of 
personal  data  to  be  submitted  for  application  purposes,  e.g.  kindergarten  grades  or  test 

Adopted 

12 

results,  differing  retention  periods,  collection  or  processing  of  financial  or  biometric  data, 
further processing limitations. 

  High level criteria for approval of a European Data Protection Seal mechanism include: 

o  criteria approved by the Board; 

o  application  across  jurisdictions  reflecting  where  appropriate  national  legal 

requirements and sector specific regulations; 

o 

 

  harmonised criteria which are customisable to reflect national requirements; 

o  description of the certification mechanism specifying; 

o 

the certification agreements, recognizing pan-European requirements; 

o  procedures to ensure and provide solutions for national variance and ensure the 

Seal helps demonstrate GDPR compliance; and 

o 

the language of the reports addressing all affected supervisory authorities.  

 

43. The annex also contains advice on the European Data Protection Seal criteria. 

 

4.2.3  Role of accreditation 
 

44. As noted in 4.2.1, when criteria are identified as being suitable for common certification, and 
have been approved as such by the Board pursuant to Article 42(5), then certification bodies 
may be accredited to conduct certification under these criteria at Union level.  

45. Schemes that  are  intended only to be offered only in particular Member States will not be 
candidates of EU Seals. Accreditation for the scope of a European Data Protection Seal will 
require  accreditation  in  the  Member  State  of  the  headquarters  of  the  certification  body 
intending to operate the scheme, i.e. responsible for issuing certifications and managing the 
certification  activities  of  its  entities  and  subsidiaries  in  other  Member  States.  Where  other 
establishments  or  offices  manage  and  perform  certifications  autonomously,  each  of  these 
establishments or offices will require separate accreditation in the Member State where they 
are  based.  In  other  words,  accreditation  is  necessary  only  in  the  Member  State  of  the 
headquarters of the certification body when only the headquarters issue the certificates. By 
contrast,  when  other  establishments  of  the  certification  body  also  issue  certificates,  these 
establishments need to be accredited as well.  

46. Consequently, if a certification body has not been accredited to certify under the European 
Data Protection Seal, then the EDPB approved criteria cannot be used and the Seal cannot be 
offered. 

 

Adopted 

13 

5  THE DEVELOPMENT OF CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 

 

47. The GDPR established the framework for the development of certification criteria. Whereas 
fundamental requirements concerning the procedure of certification are addressed in Articles 
42  and  43  while  also  providing  essential  criteria  for  certification  procedures,  the  basis  for 
certification criteria must be derived from the GDPR principles and rules and help to provide 
assurance that they are fulfilled.  

48. The  development  of  certification  criteria  should  focus  on  verifiability,  significance,  and 
suitability  of  certification  criteria  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  Regulation.  The 
certification  criteria  should  be  formulated  in  such  a  way  that  they  are  clear  and 
comprehensible and that they allow practical application.  

49. When  drafting  certification  criteria  the  following  compliance  aspects  in  support  of  the 
assessment  of  the  processing  operation,  inter  alia,  shall  be  taken  into  account,  where 
applicable: 

 

 

 

 

 

the lawfulness of processing pursuant to Article 6; 

the principles of data processing pursuant to Article 5; 

the data subjects’ rights pursuant to Articles 12-23; 

the obligation to notify data breaches pursuant to Article 33; 

the obligation of data protection by design and by default, pursuant to Article 25; 

  whether a data protection impact assessment, pursuant to Article 35(7)(d) has been 

conducted, if applicable; and 

 

the technical and organisational measures put in place pursuant to Article 32. 

50. The extent to which these considerations are reflected in the criteria may vary depending on 
the scope of certification which may include the type of processing operation(s) and the area 
(e.g. health sector) of certification. 

 

5.1  What can be certified under the GDPR? 
 

51. The EDPB considers that the GDPR provides a broad scope for what can be certified under the 
GDPR,  as  long  as  the  focus  is  on  helping  demonstrate  compliance  with  this  Regulation  of 
processing operations by controllers and processors (Article 42.1). 

52. When  assessing  a  processing  operation,  the  following  three  core  components  must  be 

considered, where applicable: 

1.  personal data (material scope of the GDPR); 

2.  technical systems - the infrastructure, such as hardware and software, used to process 

the personal data; and 

Adopted 

14 

3.  processes and procedures related to the processing operation(s). 

 

53. Each component used in processing operations must be subject to assessment against the set 
criteria. At least four different significant factors can be of influence: 1) the organisation and 
legal  structure  of  the  controller  or  processor;  2)  the  department,  environment  and  people 
involved  in  the  processing  operation(s);  3)  the  technical  description  of  the  elements  to  be 
assessed; and finally 4) the  IT infrastructure supporting the processing  operation including 
operating  systems,  virtual  systems,  databases,  authentication  and  authorization  systems, 
routers and firewalls, storage systems, communication infrastructure or Internet access and 
associated technical measures.  

54. All three core components are relevant for the design of certification procedures and criteria. 
Depending on the object of certification the extent to which they are taken into account may 
vary. For example, in some cases, some components can be disregarded if they are judged not 
relevant to the object of the certification. 

55. To  further  specify  what  may  be  certified  under  the  GDPR,  the  GDPR  contains  additional 
guidance. It follows from Article 42.7 that certifications under the GDPR are issued only to data 
controllers and data processors, which rule out for instance the certification of data protection 
officers. Art. 43(1)(b) refers to ISO 17065 which provides for the accreditation of certification 
bodies assessing the conformity of products, services and processes.  A processing operation 
or a set of operations may result in a product or service in the terminology of ISO 17065 and 
such  can  be  subject  of  certification.  For  instance,  the  processing  of  employee  data  for  the 
purpose of salary payment or leave management is a set of operations within the meaning of 
the GDPR and can result in a product, process or a service in the terminology of ISO.  

56. On the basis of these considerations, the EDPB considers that the scope of certification under 
the GDPR is directed to processing operations or sets of operations. These may comprise of 
governance  processes in the  sense of organisational measures, hence  as integral parts of a 
processing operation (e.g. the governance process established for complaints handling as part 
of the processing of employee data for the purpose of salary payment). 

57. In order to assess the compliance of the processing operation with the certification criteria, a 
use case must be provided. For example, compliance of the use of a technical infrastructure 
deployed in a processing operation depends on the categories of data it is designed to process. 
Organisational  measures  depend  on  the  categories  and  amount  of  data  and  the  technical 
infrastructure  used  for  processing,  taking  into  account  the  nature,  scope,  content  and 
purposes of the processing as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects.  

58. Moreover, it must be kept in mind that IT applications can differ widely even though serving 
the same processing purposes. Therefore, this must be considered when defining the scope of 
the  certification  mechanisms  and  drafting  the  certification  criteria,  i.e.  the  scope  of 
certification  and  criteria  should  not  be  so  narrow  as  to  exclude  IT  applications  designed 
differently.  

 

5.2  Determining the object of certification 
 

Adopted 

15 

59. The scope of a certification mechanism is to be distinguished from the object - also called the 
target of evaluation (ToE) - in individual certification projects under a certification mechanism.  
A certification mechanism can define its scope either generally or in relation to a specific type 
or area of processing operations and can thus already identify the objects of certification that 
fall  within  the  scope  of  the  certification  mechanism  (e.g.  secure  storage  and  protection  of 
personal data contained in a digital vault). At any instance, a reliable, meaningful assessment 
of conformity can take place only if the individual object of a certification project  is described 
precisely. It must be described clearly which processing operations are included in the object 
of  certification  and  then  the  core  components,  i.e.  which  data,  processes  and  technical 
infrastructure,  will  be  assessed  and  which  will  not.  In  doing  so,  the  interfaces  to  other 
processes must always be considered and described as well. Clearly, what is not known cannot 
be part of the assessment and thus cannot be certified. In any case, the individual object of 
certification  must  be  meaningful  with  respect  to  the  message  or  claim  made  on/by  the 
certification and should not mislead the user, customer or consumer. 

60.  [Example 1]  

A bank offers to its customers a website for the purpose of online banking. In the framework 
of this service, there is the possibility to make transfers, buy shares, initiate standing orders 
and manage the account. The  bank wishes to certify the following under a data protection 
certification mechanism with a general scope based on generic criteria: 

 

a)  Secure log-in 

Secure log-in is a processing operation which is understandable for the end user and 
which is relevant from a data protection perspective since it plays an important part 
in ensuring the security of personal data involved. Therefore, this processing operation 
is necessary for secure log-in and can thus constitute a meaningful ToE if the certificate 
states clearly that only the log-in processing operation is certified.  

b)  Web front-end  

Whilst the web front-end can be relevant from a data protection perspective it is not 
understandable by the end user and therefore cannot be a meaningful ToE. Moreover, 
it is not  clear to the  user which services on the website and thus which processing 
operations are covered by the certification. 

c)  Online banking  

The  web  front  end  together  with  the  back-end  are processing operations  provided 
within the online banking service which can be meaningful to the user. In this context, 
both must be included in the ToE. Whereas processing operations that are not directly 
connected  to  the  provision  of  the  online  banking  service,  such  as  processing 
operations for the purpose of prevention of money laundering, can be excluded from 
the ToE. 

 

However,  the  online-banking  services  offered  by  the  bank  via  its  website  may  also  include 
other services which in turn require their own processing operations. In this context, other 
services may include, for example, the offering of an insurance product. Since this additional 

Adopted 

16 

service is not directly connected with the purpose of providing online banking services, it can 
be excluded from the ToE. If this additional service (insurance) is excluded from the ToE, the 
interfaces for this service integrated on the website are part of the ToE and must therefore be 
described in order to clearly distinguish between the services. Such a description is necessary 
to identify and evaluate possible data flows between the two services. 

61. [Example 2]  

A bank offers to its customers a service allowing them to aggregate the information related to 
different accounts and credit cards from several banks (account aggregation). The bank wishes 
to  have  its  service  certified  under  the  GDPR.  The  competent  supervisory  authority  has 
approved a specific set of certification criteria focusing on this type of activity. The scope of 
the certification mechanism only addresses the following compliance aspects: 

  user authentication; and 

  acceptable ways to obtain the data to be aggregated from other banks/services. 

Since the scope of this certification mechanism defines the ToE by itself, it is not possible to 
meaningfully narrow down the ToE under the proposed scope and certify only specific features 
or a single processing activity. In this scenario, a ToE must equal a specific scope. 

 

5.3  Evaluation methods and methodology of assessment 
 

62. A conformity assessment to help demonstrate compliance of processing operations requires 
identifying and determining the methods for evaluation and the methodology of assessment. 
It matters whether the information for the assessment is collected from documentation only 
(which would not be sufficient in itself) or whether it is actively collected on site and by direct 
or  indirect  access.  The  way  in  which  information  is  collected  has  consequences  for  the 
significance of certification and should therefore be defined and described.  

Procedures for the issuance and periodic review of certifications should include specifications 
to identify the appropriate level of evaluation (depth and granularity) to meet the certification 
criteria and should include the provision of: 

 

information about and specification of the applied assessment methods and findings 
collected e.g. during on site audits or from documentation, 

  evaluation methods focusing on the processing operations (data, systems, processes) 

and the purpose of processing,  

 

 

identification of the categories of data, the protection needs  and whether processors 
or third parties are involved,  

identification of roles and existence of an  access control mechanism defined around 
roles and responsibilities.  

63. The depth of evaluation has an impact on the significance and value of the certification. By 
reducing  the  depth  of  evaluation  for  pragmatic  purposes  or  to  reduce  the  costs,  the 
significance of a data protection certification will be diminished. Decisions on the granularity 
of the evaluation on the other hand, may exceed the financial capabilities of the applicant and 

Adopted 

17 

often the capability of evaluators and auditors, too. For purposes of demonstrating compliance 
it may not always be crucial to reach a very detailed analysis of the IT systems used to remain 
meaningful. 

5.4  Documentation of assessment  
 

64. Certification documentation should be thorough and comprehensive. A lack of documentation 
means  that  a  proper  assessment  cannot  take  place.  The  essential  function  of  certification 
documentation  is  that  it  provides  for  transparency  in  the  evaluation  process  under  the 
certification  mechanism.  Documentation  delivers  answers  to  questions  concerning  the 
requirements  set  out  by  law.  Certification  mechanisms  should  provide  for  a  standardized 
documentation methodology. Thereafter evaluation will allow comparison of the certification 
documentation with the actual status on-site and against the certification criteria. 

65. Comprehensive documentation of what has been certified and the methodology used serves 
transparency.  Pursuant  to  Article  43(2)(c),  certification  mechanisms  should  establish 
procedures that allow the review of certifications. In order to allow the supervisory authority 
to  assess  whether  and  to  what  extent  the  certification  can  be  acknowledged  in  formal 
investigations, detailed documentation may be the most appropriate means to communicate. 
The documentation produced during evaluation should therefore focus on three main aspects:  

 

consistency and coherence of evaluation methods executed;  

  evaluation methods  directed  to  demonstrate  compliance  of  the  certification  object 

with the certification criteria and thus with the Regulation; and 

 

that the results of evaluation have been validated by an independent and impartial 
certification body. 

 

5.5  Documentation of results  
 

66. Recital  100  provides  information  on  the  objectives  pursued  with  the  introduction  of 

certification.  

 
“In  order  to  enhance  transparency  and  compliance  with  this  Regulation,  the  establishment  of 
certification  mechanisms  and  data  protection  seals  and  marks  should  be  encouraged,  allowing 
data subjects to quickly assess the level of data protection of relevant products and services.”  

67. To enhance transparency the documentation and communication of results play an important 
role. Certification bodies using certification mechanisms, seals or marks directed towards the 
data  subjects  (in  their  roles  as  consumers  or  customers)  should  provide  easily  accessible, 
intelligible and meaningful information about the certified processing operation(s). This public 
information should include at least the  

  description of the ToE; 

 

reference to the approved criteria applied to the specific ToE;   

Adopted 

18 

 

 

 

the methodology for the evaluation of the criteria (on-site evaluation, documentation, 
etc.); and  

the duration of the validity of the certificate; and 

should allow comparability of results for supervisory authorities and the public.  

 

6  GUIDANCE FOR DEFINING CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 

 

68. Certification  criteria  are  an  integral  part  of  a  certification  mechanism.  The  certification 
procedure includes the requirements of how, by whom, to what extent and the granularity of 
the assessment which shall take place in individual certification projects concerning a specific 
object  or  target  of  evaluation  (ToE).  The  certification  criteria  provide  the  nominal 
requirements against which the actual processing operation defined in the ToE is assessed. 
These guidelines for defining certification criteria provide generic advice that will facilitate the 
assessment of certification criteria for the purpose of approval.  

  The following general considerations should be taken into account when approving or 

defining certification criteria. Certification criteria should: 

  be uniform and verifiable,  

  auditable  in  order  to  facilitate  the  evaluation  of  processing  operations  under  the 
GDPR, by specifying in particular, the objectives and the implementing guidance for 
achieving those objectives; 

  be relevant with respect to the targeted audience (e.g. B2B and business to customer 

(B2C); 

 

take into account and where appropriate be inter-operable with other standards (such 
as ISO standards, national level standards); and 

  be  flexible and scalable for application to different types  and sizes of organisations 
including micro, small and medium sized enterprises in accordance with Article 42(1) 
and the risk-based approach in accordance with Recital 77.  

69. A  small  local  company,  such  as  a  retailer,  will  usually  carry  out  less  complex  processing 
operations than a large multinational retailer. While the requirements for the lawfulness of 
the processing operations are the same, the scope of data processing and its complexity must 
be taken into account; it follows that there is a need for certification mechanisms and their 
criteria to be scalable according to the processing activity in question. 

 

6.1  Existing standards 
 

70. Certification  bodies  will  need  to  consider  how  specific  criteria  take  existing  relevant 
instruments, such as Codes of Conducts, technical standards or national regulatory and legal 

Adopted 

19 

initiatives into account. Ideally, criteria will be interoperable with existing standards that can 
help a controller or processor meet their obligations under the GDPR. However, while industry 
standards often focus on the protection and security of the organisation against threats, the 
GDPR  is  directed  at  the  protection  of  fundamental  rights  of  natural  persons.  This  different 
perspective  must  be  taken  into  account  when  designing  criteria  or  approving  criteria  or 
certification mechanisms based on industry standards.  

 

6.2  Defining criteria 
 

71. Certification criteria must correspond to the certification statement (message or claim) of a 
certification  mechanism  or  scheme  and  match  the  expectations  it  raises.  The  name  of  a 
certification  mechanism  may  already  identify  the  scope  of  application  and  will  have 
consequences for the determination of criteria. 

72. [Example 3]  

A mechanism called "HealthPrivacyMark" should limit its scope to the health sector. The seal 
name raises the expectation that data protection requirements in connection with health data 
have  been  examined.  Accordingly,  the  criteria  of  this  mechanism  must  be  adequate  for 
assessing data protection requirements in this sector. 

73.  [Example 4]  

A mechanism that relates to the certification of processing operations comprising governance 
systems  in  data  processing  should  identify  criteria  that  allow  for  the  recognition  and 
assessment  of  governance  processes  and  its  supporting  technical  and  organisational 
measures. 

74. [Example 5]  

The criteria for a mechanism that relates  to cloud computing needs to take account of the 
special technical requirements necessary for the use of cloud-based services. For instance, if 
servers are used outside the EU, the criteria must consider the conditions laid down in Chapter 
V of the GDPR with respect to data transfers to third-countries.  

75. Criteria designed to fit different ToEs in different sectors and/or Member States should: allow 
an application to different scenarios; allow identification of the adequate measures to fit small, 
medium, or large processing operations and reflect the risks of varying likelihood and severity 
to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons  in  line  with  the  GDPR.  Consequently,  the 
certification  procedures  (e.g.  for  documentation,  testing,  or evaluation method  and  depth) 
complementing the criteria must respond to these needs and allow and have rules in place, 
for  example  to  apply  the  relevant  criteria  in  individual  certification  projects.  Criteria  must 
facilitate  an  assessment  as  to  whether  sufficient  guarantees  for  the  implementation  of 
appropriate technical and organisational measures have been provided. 

 

6.3  Lifetime of certification criteria 
 

Adopted 

20 

76. Even though certification criteria must be reliable over time they should not be carved in stone. 

They shall be subject to revision for instance where: 

 

 

the legal framework is amended; 

terms and provisions are interpreted by judgments of the European Court of Justice; 
or 

 

the technical state of the art has evolved. 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

Adopted 

21 

ANNEX:  TASKS  AND  POWERS  OF  SUPERVISORY  AUTHORITIES  IN 
RELATION TO CERTIFICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GDPR 

 

 

Provisions  

Article 43(6) 

Article 57(1)(n) 

Tasks 
 

Article 57(1)(o) 

Article 64(1)(c) 

Article 58(1)(c) 

Article 58(2)(h) 

Article 58(3)(e) 

Article 58(3)(f) 

Article 58(3)(e) 

Article 58(3)(f) 

Powers 
 

 

Adopted 

Requirements 
 
Requires  the  supervisory  authority  to  make  public  the  criteria 
referred to in Article 42(5) in an easily accessible form and transmit 
them to the Board. 
Requires  the  supervisory  authority  to  approve  certification  criteria 
pursuant to Article 42(5). 
 
Provides that where appropriate (i.e. where it issues certification), it 
shall carry out a periodic review of certification issued in accordance 
with Article 42(7). 
 
Requires the supervisory authority to communicate the draft decision 
to  the  Board,  when  it  aims  to  approve  the  criteria  for  certification 
referred to in Article 42(5). 
Provides  that  the  supervisory  authority  has  the  power  to  carry  out 
reviews of certification pursuant to Article 42(7); 
 
Provides that the supervisory authority has the power to withdraw or 
order  the  certification  body  to  withdraw  certification  or  order  the 
certification body not to issue certification. 
 
Provides  that  the  supervisory  authority  has  the  power  to  accredit 
certification bodies 
 
Provides  that  the  supervisory  authority  has  the  power  to  issue 
certification and approve certification criteria. 
 
Provides  that  the  supervisory  authority  has  the  power  to  accredit 
certification bodies. 
 
Provides  that  the  supervisory  authority  has  the  power  to  issue 
certification and approve certification criteria. 
 

22 

