 
  

Opinion 5/2023 on the European Commission Draft 
Implementing Decision on the adequate protection of 
personal data under the EU-US Data Privacy Framework 

 

Adopted on 28 February 2023

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Executive summary 

  
On  13  December  2022,  the  European  Commission  published  a  draft adequacy  decision  (‘Draft 
Decision’)  which  includes  annexes  constituting  a  new  framework  for  transatlantic exchanges  of 
personal data, the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (‘DPF’), which is meant to replace the previous U.S. 
Privacy Shield invalidated by the  Court of Justice of  the European Union (‘CJEU’) on 16 July 2020, in 
the  Schrems II case. The key component of the DPF is the EU-US Data Privacy Framework Principles, 
including the Supplemental Principles (collectively ‘the DPF Principles’). 

In accordance with Article 70(1)(s)  of  Regulation (EU) 2016/6791 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council  (‘GDPR’), the Commission  requested the opinion  of the European Data Protection Board 
(‘EDPB’) on the Draft Decision. 

The EDPB assessed  the adequacy of  the level of protection afforded  in the USA, on the basis  of the 
examination of the Draft Decision. The EDPB assessed  both the commercial aspects and the access to 
and use of personal data transferred from the EU by public authorities in the US.  

The EDPB took into account the applicable EU data protection legal framework as set out in the GDPR, 
as well as the fundamental rights to private life and data protection as enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of 
the Charter of Fundamental rights of the European Union and Article 8 of the European Convention on 
Human Rights. It also considered the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial laid down in Article 
47 of the Charter, as well as the jurisprudence related to the various fundamental rights.  

In addition, the EDPB has considered  the requirements of the Adequacy Referential adopted by the 
EDPB2.  

The EDPB’s key  objective  is  to give  an  opinion  to  the  Commission  on  the  adequacy of  the  level  of 
protection  afforded  to individuals  whose  personal  data is  transferred to  the US.  It is  important to 
recognise that the EDPB does not expect the US data protection framework to replicate European data 
protection law. 

However, the EDPB recalls that, to be considered as providing an adequate level of protection, Article 
45 GDPR and the case-law of the CJEU require the third country’s legislation to provide data subjects 
with a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU.  

1.1. General data protection aspects 

The DPF provides  that adherence to the DPF Principles  by DPF Organisations may be limited in some 
cases (e.g. to the extent necessary to comply with a court order or to meet public interest). In order to 
better identify  the impact of these exemptions on the level of protection for data subjects, the EDPB 
recommends  that  the Commission  includes  in  the  Draft Decision  clarification  on  the  scope  of  the 
exemptions, including on the applicable safeguards under US law.  

The EDPB notes that the structure of the annexes and their numbering makes the information rather 
difficult to find and refer to. This contributes to an overall complex presentation of the new framework, 

                                                             
1    Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection 
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1–88. 
2  Art. 29 Working Party, Adequacy Referential, WP 254 rev.01, 28 November 2017, as last revised and adopted 
on 6 February 2018, endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018 (hereinafter ‘Adequacy Referential’). 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

which  compiles  in  its  annexes  documents  of  different  legal  value,  and  may  not  favour  a  good 
understanding  of  the  DPF  Principles  by  data subjects,  DPF  Organisations,  and  EU  Data Protection 
Authorities. The EDPB also stresses that the terminology should  be used consistently  throughout the 
DPF. Similarly, the definition of some essential terms is lacking3. 

The EDPB welcomes the updates made to the DPF Principles4, which will constitute the binding legal 
framework  for  DPF  Organisations,  but  notes  that  despite  a  number  of  changes  and  additional 
explanations  made  in  the  recitals  of  the  Draft  Decision,  the  DPF  Principles  to  which  the  DPF 
organisations have to adhere remain essentially unchanged with regard to those applicable under the 
Privacy Shield (on  which were based the Working  Party 29 (‘WP29’) and EDPB annual joint reviews). 
The DPF Principles  are also, to a large extent, the same as those of the draft Privacy Shield on which 
the WP29 based its 2016 opinion5. For those DPF Principles that are substantially unchanged, the EDPB 
considers not necessary to repeat all comments previously made by the WP29. The EDPB has decided 
to focus on specific aspects that it considers to be even more relevant today, in view of the evolution 
of the legal and technological environment. 

For instance, the EDPB notes that some issues of concern previously  raised by the WP29 and the EDPB 
in relation to the Privacy Shield principles remain valid. In particular, these relate to the rights of data 
subjects  (e.g. some  exceptions to  the right of  access and  the timing and modalities  for the right to 
object), the  absence  of  key  definitions,  the lack  of  clarity in  relation to  the  application of  the DPF 
Principles to processors, and the broad exemption for publicly available information6. 

The  EDPB  would  also  like  to  reiterate  that  the  level  of  protection  of  individuals  whose  data  is 
transferred must not be undermined by onward transfers from the initial recipient of the transferred 
data7. The EDPB invites once more the Commission  to clarify that the safeguards imposed by the initial 
recipient on  the importer in  the third country must  be effective in light of  third country  legislation, 
prior to an onward transfer in the context of the DPF. 

Rapid developments  in the field of automated decision-making  and profiling  - increasingly by means 
of AI technologies- call for particular attention. The EDPB welcomes the Commission’s  references to 
specific safeguards provided  by relevant US law in different fields8. However, the level of  protection 
for individuals seems to vary according to which sector-specific rules - if any- apply to the situation at 
hand. The EDPB maintains  that specific  rules  concerning automated decision-making  are needed  in 
order to provide sufficient safeguards, including the right for the individual to know the logic involved,  
to challenge the decision and to obtain human intervention when the decision significantly affects him 
or her. 

The EDPB recalls the importance of effective oversight and enforcement of the DPF and considers that 
compliance checks as regards more substantive requirements are crucial. These aspects will be closely 
monitored by the EDPB, including in the context of the periodic reviews. The EDPB takes note of the 
renewed commitments in the letters from the Federal Trade Commission  (‘FTC’)9 and the Department 
                                                             
3  This is the case for the terms ‘agent’ and ‘processor’. Moreover, the concept of ‘human resources (HR) data’ 
still needs to be discussed with US authorities. 
4  For instance, the clarification that key-coded data are personal data. 
5  Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 01/2016 on the EU – U.S. Privacy Shield draft adequacy decision, adopted on 
13 April 2016 (hereinafter, ‘WP29 Opinion 01/2016’).  
6 EU.U.S. Privacy Shield - Third Annual Joint Review, EDPB report adopted on 12 November 2019, para. 11. 
7  GDPR Adequacy Referential, 3.A.9. 
8  Draft Decision, Recital 35. 
9 Draft Decision, Annex IV. 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

of Transportation (‘DOT’)10 as regards enforcement  e.g. to prioritise the investigation of alleged DPF 
violations.  

The EDPB notes that seven redress avenues are provided to EU data subjects, if their personal data are 
processed  in violation  of the DPF. These redress mechanisms  are the same as  those included  in the 
former Privacy Shield, which had been subject to comments by the WP2911. The effectiveness of these 
redress mechanisms  will  be closely  monitored by  the EDPB, including in  the context of  the periodic 
reviews.  

1.2. Access and use of personal data transferred from the European Union by public authorities in 
the US 

In the Draft Decision, the European Commission concludes that “any interference in the public interest, 
in particular for criminal law enforcement and for national security purposes, by U.S. public authorities 
with the fundamental rights of the individuals  whose personal data are transferred from the Union to 
the  United  States  under  the  EU-U.S.  Data Privacy  Framework,  will  be  limited  to  what  is  strictly 
necessary to achieve the legitimate objective in  question, and that effective legal protection against 
such interference exists”12. 

The European Commission reaches its conclusion after an extensive assessment of the Executive Order 
14086 enhancing safeguards for U.S. signals intelligence activities (EO 14086). The EO 14086 was issued 
by the U.S. President on 7 October 2022, following negotiations of the European Commission  with the 
U.S. Government in the wake of the invalidation of the previous adequacy decision, called the Privacy 
Shield, by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). 

The EDPB would welcome that not only the entry into force but also the adoption of the decision  are 
conditional upon  inter alia the adoption of updated policies and procedures to implement EO 14086 
by  all  US  intelligence  agencies. The  EDPB recommends  the  Commission  to  assess  these  updated 
policies and procedures and share this assessment with the EDPB. 

With regard to governmental access to personal data transferred to the U.S., the EDPB has focussed 
its analysis on the assessment of the new EO 14086, as it is effectively meant to address and remedy 
the deficits identified by the CJEU in its Schrems II ruling when it found the previous adequacy decision 
to be invalid. 

The EDPB recognises that the U.S. legal framework for signals intelligence activities has been amended 
by adoption of EO 14086 and regards the additional safeguards included  in this order as a significant 
improvement. The EO 14086 introduces  the concepts  of necessity  and proportionality  into  the U.S. 
legal framework on signals intelligence, and it provides, if the EU were to be designated as a qualifying 
regional economic integration organisation, a new redress mechanism  for EU individuals.  The EDPB 
considers the new redress mechanism to be significantly improved compared to the previous so-called 
Ombudsperson  mechanism  under  the Privacy  Shield.  In  contrast to  the  previous  legal framework, 
which did not create rights for EU individuals,  as was explicitly noted by the CJEU, the new EO 14086 
creates  such  entitlements,  and  it  provides  more  safeguards  for  the  independence  of  the  Data 
Protection Review Court, and more effective powers to remedy violations.   

When  comparing the additional  safeguards included  in  EO 14086 to what the EDPB has framed the 
European Essential Guarantees (EEGs), as the standard elaborated on the basis of the jurisprudence of 

                                                             
10 Draft Decision, Annex V. 
11 See in particular WP29 Opinion 01/2016, Section 2.2.6 (a).  
12 Draft Decision, Recital 195. 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

the  CJEU  and  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  (ECtHR),  the  EDPB  has  still  identified  in  its 
assessment a number of points for additional clarifications, for attention or for concern. These points 
reflect  that, while  the  EDPB based  its  opinion  on  the  Schrems  II ruling,  the  scope  of  the  EDPB's 
assessment necessarily includes  considerations that go beyond  the specific findings  in the Schrems II 
judgment. 

The EDPB sees a need for further clarification on questions, in particular, relating to “temporary bulk 
collection”, and to the further retention and dissemination  of the data collected (in bulk)  in the U.S. 
legal framework. 

As the test of essential equivalence is not a test of identity, and as the safeguards included in the new 
legal framework on signals intelligence have been  strengthened, the EDPB’s main point of  attention 
and of  concern  is  focused  on  an assessment  of  the safeguards in  their entirety, following  a holistic 
approach covering the safeguards for the entire cycle of processing, from the collection of data to the 
dissemination of data, and including the elements of oversight and redress. 

In this regard, the EDPB emphasises the following findings:  

While the EDPB recognises that the EO 14086 introduces the concepts of necessity and proportionality 
in the legal framework of signals intelligence, it underlines the need to closely monitor the effects of 
these amendments in practice, including the review of internal policies and procedures implementing 
the EO’s safeguards at agency level.  

The  EDPB also  welcomes  the  fact that the  EO  14086  contains  a  list  of  specific  purposes  for  which 
collection can and cannot take place, while noting the objectives may be updated with additional – not 
necessarily public – objectives in the light of new national security imperatives. 

As  a  deficit  in  the  current  framework,  the  EDPB  has  in  particular  identified  that  the  U.S.  legal 
framework, when  allowing  for  the  collection  of  bulk  data under  Executive  Order  12333, lacks  the 
requirement  of  prior  authorisation  by  an  independent  authority,  as  required  in  the  most  recent 
jurisprudence of the ECtHR, nor does it provide for a systematic independent review ex post by a court 
or an equivalently independent body. With regard to prior independent authorisation of surveillance 
under Section  702 FISA, the EDPB regrets that the FISA Court (‘FISC’) does  not review a programme 
application  for  compliance  with  the  EO  14086  when  certifying  the  programme  authorising  the 
targeting of non-U.S.  persons, even though  the intelligence authorities carrying out the programme 
are bound  by  it. In the view  of  the EDPB, the additional  safeguards  contained  in  this  order  should 
nevertheless be taken into account including by the FISC. The EDPB recalls that reports of the Privacy 
and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (‘PCLOB’) would be particularly useful to assess how the safeguards 
of  the EO 14086 will  be implemented and how  these safeguards are applied when data is collected 
under Section 702 FISA and EO 12333. 

On the redress mechanism, the EDPB recognises significant improvements relating to the powers of 
the  Data  Protection  Review  Court  (‛DPRC’)  and  its  enhanced  independence  compared  to  the 
Ombudsperson.  The  EDPB also  recognises  the  additional  safeguards  foreseen  in  the  new  redress 
mechanism  such  as  the  role  of  the  special  advocates  that  includes  advocating  regarding  the 
complainant's interest as well  as the review of the redress  mechanism by  PCLOB. While  taking into 
account  the  nature  of  national  security  and  the  safeguards  provided  in  EO  14086,  the  EDPB  is 
nevertheless concerned about the general application of the standard response of the DPRC notifying 
the  complainant  that  either  no  covered  violations  were  identified  or  a  determination  requiring 
appropriate remediation was issued, and its non-appealability, taken together. Given the importance 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

of  the  redress  mechanism,  the  EDPB  calls  on  the  Commission  to  closely  monitor  the  practical 
functioning of this mechanism. 

The EDPB expects the Commission to follow up on their commitment to suspend, repeal or amend the 
adequacy decision  on grounds of  urgency, in particular if the U.S. Executive would decide to restrict 
the safeguards included in the EO13.  

Overall,  the  EDPB  positively  notes  the  substantial  improvements  the  EO  offers  compared  to  the 
previous  legal framework, in particular as regards the introduction of the principles of necessity and 
proportionality  and  the  individual  redress  mechanism  for  EU  data  subjects.  Given  the  concerns 
expressed and the clarifications required, the EDPB suggests these concerns should  be addressed and 
that the Commission provides the requested clarifications in order to solidify  the grounds for the Draft 
Decision and to ensure a close monitoring of the concrete implementation of this new legal framework, 
in particular the safeguards it provides, in the future joint reviews.  

 

 

 
 

                                                             
13 Draft Decision, Recital 212. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

Table of contents 

1 

INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................................................9 

1.1  US data protection framework....................................................................................9 

1.2 

1.3 

Scope of the EDPB’s assessment ............................................................................... 11 

General comments and concerns .............................................................................. 13 

1.3.1  Assessment of the domestic law ........................................................................... 13 

1.3.2 

International commitments entered into by the U.S. ............................................... 13 

1.3.3  Progress in the area of US data protection legislation .............................................. 14 

1.3.4 

Scope of the Draft Decision.................................................................................. 14 

1.3.5 

Limitations to the duty to adhere to the DPF Principles ............................................ 14 

1.3.6  Changes with regard to the ’Privacy Shield’ ............................................................ 15 

1.3.7 

Lack of clarity in the documents of the DPF ............................................................ 15 

2 

GENERAL DATA PROTECTION ASPECTS ............................................................................. 16 

2.1 

Content principles................................................................................................... 16 

2.1.1  Concepts........................................................................................................... 16 

2.1.2  The purpose limitation principle ........................................................................... 16 

2.1.3  Rights of access, rectification, erasure and objection ............................................... 17 

2.1.4  Restrictions on onward transfers .......................................................................... 18 

2.1.5  Automated decision-making and profiling .............................................................. 19 

2.2 

2.3 

Procedural and Enforcement Mechanisms.................................................................. 20 

Redress mechanisms ............................................................................................... 21 

ACCESS AND USE OF PERSONAL DATA TRANSFERRED FROM THE EUROPEAN UNION BY PUBLIC 

3 
AUTHORITIES IN THE US ........................................................................................................ 22 

3.1 

Access and use for criminal law enforcement purposes ................................................ 22 

3.1.1  Access by law enforcement authorities to personal data should be based on clear, 
precise and accessible rules ............................................................................................ 22 

3.1.2  Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate objectives pursued need to 
be demonstrated .......................................................................................................... 23 

3.1.3  An independent oversight mechanism should exist  ................................................. 24 

3.1.4  Effective remedies need to be available to the individual ......................................... 25 

3.1.5 

Further use of the information collected................................................................ 26 

3.2 

Access and use for national security purposes............................................................. 26 

3.2.1  Guarantee A - Processing should  be in accordance with the law and based on clear, 
precise and accessible rules ............................................................................................ 28 

3.2.2  Guarantee B - Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate objectives 
pursued need to be demonstrated .................................................................................. 31 

Adopted 

 

7 

 

3.2.3  Guarantee C - Oversight ...................................................................................... 40 

3.2.4  Guarantee D - Effective remedies need to be available to the individual ..................... 45 

4 

IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE DRAFT DECISION .......................................... 53 

 

 

 
 

 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

The European Data Protection Board has adopted the following statement: 

Having regard to Article 70(1)(s) of  Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter ‘GDPR’)1, 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20182, 

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING OPINION 

1 

INTRODUCTION  

1.1  US data protection framework   

1. 

2. 

The United States (‘US’) and the European Union (‘EU’) have different approaches to privacy and data 
protection. While privacy and data protection in the EU are fundamental rights guaranteed in Articles 
7  and  8  of  the  European  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  data  protection  in  the  US  is  generally 
approached from a consumer protection perspective. As a result, regulatory approaches in the US and 
EU differ3.  

Differing  from  the  EU comprehensive  approach  taken  by  the  GDPR, in  the  US,  no  comprehensive 
general law  on  data protection exists  at federal level. The  protection of  privacy in  the US  is  rather 
realised by a sectoral and state approach. For instance, some specific sectors are covered by specific 
acts, e.g.:  

  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)4 

                                                             
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, 
p. 1. 
2 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
3  See also European Commission Draft Implementing Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council on the adequate level of protection of personal data under the EU-US 
Data Privacy Framework, published on 13 December 2022 (hereinafter, the ‘Draft Decision’), Annex I, Section I.  
4 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is a U.S. federal law. It creates national 
standards to protect patients' sensitive health information. The goal of HIPAA is to adequately protect individuals' 
health information, while allowing health information to flow for the delivery and promotion of high quality 
health care. HIPAA governs the use and disclosure of health information by entities subject to the Privacy Rule. 
It also includes standards for the rights of individuals to understand and control how their health information is 
used. 

Adopted 

 

9 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

 

  Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)5 
  Gramm-Leach-Billey Act (GLBA)6 
  

In the field  of  government access to personal  data transferred from  the EU to the US  a number of 
different legal bases, limitations and safeguards apply. The legal processes for access to information 
for  law  enforcement  purposes  stem  either  from  the  U.S.  Constitution  directly  (the  Fourth 
Amendment), from statutory and procedural law or from Guidelines and Policies of the Department of 
Justice at federal level or at state level. Access to information for national security purpose is governed 
by several legal instruments  and in particular by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), the 
Executive Order 12333, the recently adopted Executive order 14086 as well as the Attorney General 
regulation (‛AG Regulation’)7  establishing a Data Protection Review Court  (‛DPRC’). 

On 13 December 2022, the Commission  issued its draft Commission  Implementing Decision pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council  on the adequate level of 
protection of  personal  data under  the EU-US  Data Privacy Framework  (‘the Draft Decision’), which 
contains in its annex the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (‘the DPF’). For the reasons explained above, 
the Draft Decision is not based on a specific and comprehensive federal legal framework, but on the 
DPF.  

The DPF works as follows:  ‘The U.S. Department of Commerce (“the Department”) is issuing  the EU-
U.S.  Data  Privacy  Framework  Principles,  including  the  Supplemental  Principles  (collectively  “the 
Principles”) and Annex I of the Principles (“Annex I”), under its statutory authority to foster, promote, 
and develop international commerce (15 U.S.C. § 1512)’8. 

The development  of  the ’Principles’ (‘the DPF Principles’)  was conducted  under  consultation of  the 
European Commission  (‘the Commission’), industry and other stakeholders in order to achieve the goal 
of  the facilitation of  EU–U.S. trade and commerce9 , while ensuring  that data subjects are provided 
with a level of protection that is essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU.         

The DPF Principles  are described as a ’key component’ of the DPF.  On the one hand, they provide a 
‘ready-to-use mechanism’ for data transfers from the EU to the US. On the other hand, personal data 
transferred from the EU to the US is safeguarded and protected as required by EU law.  

                                                             
https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/privacy/index.html;    https://www.justice.gov/opcl/privacy-act-
1974. 
5 The primary goal of COPPA is to place parents in control over what personal information is collected form their 
children under 13 from operators of child-directed websites and online services (including mobile apps and IoT 
devices, such as smart toys) or general audience sites. COPPA requires that these operators parental notice and 
has to obtain verifiable parental consent. This also applies to data from foreign children if the websites or services 
are operated in the U.S. and subject to COPPA. At the same time, the regulations also apply to foreign-based 
websites  and  services  if  they  are  directed  at  children  in  the  US.  See:  https://www.ftc.gov/business-
guidance/resources/complying-coppa-frequently-asked-questions#A.%20General%20Questions  and  Draft 
Decision, Annex IV, p. 3. 
6 One of the goals of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act is to protect consumer privacy in the financial sector. The GLB 
Act requires financial institutions to explain to their customers their information-sharing practices and to create 
safeguards to protect customer information (e.g., for companies regulated by the FTC under the FTC Safeguards 
Rule). https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/privacy-security/gramm-leach-bliley-act  
7 Attorney General Order No. 5517-2022, which amends US Department of Justice regulations as authorised and 
directed by EO 14086. 
8 Draft Decision, Annex I, Section I. 
9 Ibid. 

Adopted 

 

10 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

 

The DPF is only  applicable for US organisations who  have self–certified themselves according to the 
requirements of the framework (‘DPF Organisations’). For the time being, this is only possible if they 
fall under the jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission (‘FTC’) or the Department of Transportation 
(‘DoT’). In the future, other statutory bodies  – with competence to supervise the implementation of 
the DPF Principles - might be added in a future annex. 

It is  explained by the DPF Principles  that the conditions  of the framework are enforceable by  (i) the 
FTC under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission  Act (FTC Act) prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts 
in or affecting commerce10, (ii) the DoT under 49 U.S.C: § 41712 prohibiting a carrier or ticket agent 
from  engaging  in  an  unfair  or  deceptive  practice  in  air  transportation  for  the  sale  or  of  air 
transportation or (iii) under other laws or regulations by which such acts are prohibited.  

It is pointed out in the DPF Principles  that neither the GDPR is affected in its application nor existing 
privacy obligations, otherwise applied under US law, are limited by the DPF Principles.     

1.2  Scope of the EDPB’s assessment   

The  Draft  Decision  reflects  the  Commission’s  assessment  of  the  DPF,  which  is  the  outcome  of 
discussions  with the US government. In accordance with Article 70(1)(s)  GDPR, the EDPB is expected 
to provide an opinion on the Commission’s  findings as regards the adequacy of the level of protection 
in a third country and, if needed, endeavour to make proposals  to address any issue. 

The EDPB welcomes the updates made to the DPF Principles11, which will constitute the binding legal 
framework for DPF Organisations. However, the EDPB notes that the DPF Principles remain essentially 
the same as those under the Privacy Shield12 (on which were based the Working Party 29 (‘WP29’) and 
EDPB annual joint  reviews). The DPF Principles  are also, to a large extent, the same as those of the 
draft Privacy Shield  on  which the WP29 based its 2016 opinion13  (‘the WP29 Opinion  01/2016’). For 
those DPF Principles that are substantially unchanged, the EDPB considers not necessary to repeat all 
comments previously  made by  the WP29. The EDPB has  decided  to focus  on specific  aspects that it 
considers  to  be  even  more relevant today,  in  view  of  the  evolution  of  the legal and  technological 
environment. 

In addition, in line  with the jurisprudence  of the CJEU14, a very important part of  the analysis  covers 
the legal regime of government access to personal data transferred to the US.  

In its assessment,  the EDPB took  into account the applicable European  data protection framework, 
including  Articles 7, 8  and 47  of  the EU Charter of  Fundamental Rights (‘the Charter’), respectively 
protecting the right to private and family life, the right to protection of personal data and the right to 
an effective remedy and fair trial, and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (‘ECHR’) 
protecting the  right to  private  and  family  life.  In addition  to  the  above,  the EDPB  considered  the 

                                                             
10 15 U.S.C. § 45 (a). 
11 For instance, the clarification that key-coded data are personal data. 
12 Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/1250 of 12 July 2016 pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council on the adequacy of the protection provided by the EU-U.S.  Privacy 
Shield, OJ L 207, 1.8.2016, p. 1. 
13 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 01/2016 on the EU – U.S. Privacy Shield draft adequacy decision, adopted 
on 13 April 2016 (hereinafter, ‘WP29 Opinion 01/2016’).   
14  In particular: Judgment of the  Court of Justice of 6 October 2015, Maximilian Schrems v Data Protection 
Commissioner, C-392/14, ECLI:EU:C:2015:650,  and Judgment of the Court of  Justice of 16 July 2020,  Data 
Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Limited and Maximillian Schrems, C‑311/18, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559. 

Adopted 

 

11 

 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

requirements of the GDPR, the relevant case law and the Adequacy Referential adopted by the EDPB 
(‘the GDPR Adequacy Referential’)15. 

The objective of this exercise is to provide the Commission  with an opinion  on the assessment of the 
adequacy of the level of protection provided by the DPF. The concept of ‘adequate level of protection’, 
which already existed under Directive 95/46, has been further developed by the CJEU. It is  therefore 
important to recall the standard set by the CJEU in its Schrems I 16 (invalidating the ‘Safe Harbor’)and 
Schrems II17 (invalidating the Privacy Shield)   judgments.  

In its Schrems I judgment, the CJEU ruled that, while the ‘level of protection’ in the third country must 
be ‘essentially equivalent’ to that guaranteed in the EU  – ‘the means to which that third country has 
recourse, in  this  connection, for  the  purpose  of  such  a  level  of  protection may  differ  from  those 
employed  within  the EU’18. Therefore, the  objective  is  not  to  mirror  point  by  point  the  European 
legislation, but to establish the essential and core requirements of the legislation under examination. 
Adequacy can be achieved through a combination  of rights for the data subjects  and obligations on 
those  who process  personal  data, or who  exercise control  over such  processing  and supervision  by 
independent  bodies.  However, data protection rules  are only  effective if  they  are enforceable  and 
followed in practice. It is therefore necessary to consider not only the content of the rules applicable 
to personal data transferred to a third country or an international organisation, but also the system in 
place to ensure the effectiveness of such rules. Efficient enforcement mechanisms  are of paramount 
importance to the effectiveness of data protection rules19.  

In  its  Schrems  II  decision,  the  CJEU  found  that  the  laws  on  the  basis  of  which  U.S.  intelligence 
authorities  can  access  personal  data  transferred  to  the  U.S.  (Section  702  FISA/E.O.  12333) 
disproportionately  restrict the rights enshrined  in Articles 7 and 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental 
Rights  (the  Charter) and  are  thus  not  circumscribed  in  a way  that  satisfies  requirements  that  are 
essentially equivalent to those required, under EU law, by the second sentence of Article 52(1) of the 
Charter20.   

Moreover, the CJEU stated that the previous legal framework did not provide guarantees essentially 
equivalent to those required by Article 47 of the Charter as the Ombudsperson  mechanism could not 
compensate, for the fact that neither PPD-28 nor E.O. 12333 grant non-U.S. persons an effective 
remedy21. The Ombudsperson  lacked independence from the executive   and the power to adopt 
binding decisions on U.S. intelligence services22.  

EO 14086, which  generally replaces PPD-28, introduced two new requirements under US law which 
echo  the  CJEU  Schrems  II  judgment:  on  the  one  hand,  that signals  intelligence  activities  shall  be 
conducted only  as far as necessary to advance a validated intelligence priority collection and only to 

                                                             
15 Art. 29 Working Party, Adequacy Referential, WP 254 rev.01, 28 November 2017, as last revised and adopted 
on 6 February 2018, endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018 (hereinafter ‘GDPR Adequacy Referential’). 
16 CJEU Schrems I Judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 October 2015, Maximilian Schrems v Data Protection 
Commissioner, C-392/14, ECLI:EU:C:2015:650 (hereinafter, ‘CJEU Schrems I Judgment’). 
17 Judgment of the Court of Justice of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Limited and 
Maximillian Schrems, C‑311/18, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559 (hereinafter, ‘CJEU Schrems II Judgment’). 
18CJEU Schrems I Judgment, paras. 73-74. 
19 GDPR Adequacy Referential, p.2.  
20 CJEU Schrems II Judgment, paras. 184-185. 
21 CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para. 192. 
22 CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para. 195. 

Adopted 

 

12 

 

the extent and in a manner that is proportionate to the validated intelligence priority; and on the other 
hand, a redress mechanism. 

20. 

In this opinion, the EDPB particularly assesses to which extent the DPF as well as the recently adopted 
EO 14086 effectively address the findings  made by the CJEU in its judgment.  

1.3  General comments and concerns  

1.3.1  Assessment of the domestic law   

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

The  EDPB  understands  that  the  assessment  contained  in  the  Draft  Decision  relates  to  the  DPF 
Principles.  Nevertheless the EDPB would  welcome some  information  about the US  legal context, in 
which the DPF Organisations are operating. This would allow a better understanding of the interaction 
of the DPF with US law. For example, in Annex I 123 it is determined that the DPF Principles do not ‘[…] 
limit privacy obligations that otherwise apply under U.S. law’, without describing these obligations.    

1.3.2 

International commitments entered into by the U.S. 

According to Article 45(2)(c) GDPR and the GDPR Adequacy Referential, when assessing the adequacy 
of the level of protection of a third country, the Commission  shall take into account, among others, the 
international commitments the third country has entered into, or other obligations arising from the 
third  country's  participation  in  multilateral  or  regional  systems,  in  particular  in  relation  to  the 
protection of personal data, as well as the implementation of such obligations.  

The US is a party to several international agreements that guarantee the right to privacy, such as the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Article 17), the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities (Article 22) and the Convention  on the Rights of the Child  (Article 16). Furthermore, 
the US, as an OECD member, adheres to the OECD Privacy  Framework, in  particular the Guidelines 
governing the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows  of Personal Data. On 14 December 2022, 
the OECD ’Declaration on Government Access to Personal  Data held by  Private Sector Entities’ was 
adopted by Ministers and high-level representatives of OECD Members and the European Union. The 
US is also a party to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime. 

In addition, the US is a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (‘APEC’) Cross-Border Privacy 
Rules (CBPR) system, which is a government-backed data privacy certification that companies can join 
to  demonstrate compliance  with  internationally  recognized privacy  rules.  These  privacy  rules  have 
been endorsed by APEC Leaders. 

The  EDPB  also  takes  note  of  the  participation  of  the  US  as  Observer  State  in  the  work  of  the 
Consultative Committee of the Council of Europe Convention 108.  

Furthermore, the EDPB takes note of and welcomes the continuous  engagement of US bodies in the 
2021 newly established format of the ‘Roundtable of G7 Data Protection and Privacy Authorities’ (G7 
DPA Roundtable), which convenes independent data protection and privacy supervisory  authorities of 
G7  countries.  In  this  context, they  have  supported,  for  example,  the  latest  G7  DPA  Roundtable 

                                                             
23 Draft Decision, Annex I, Section I, last sentence. 

Adopted 

 

13 

 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

communiqué24  adopted on 8 September 2022 in  Bonn, Germany, which focussed  on the concept of 
‘Data Free Flow with Trust’. 

1.3.3  Progress in the area of US data protection legislation 

The EDPB takes particular note of developments in data privacy legislation at state level in the US. The 
EDPB welcomes the adoption  of data protection laws that have entered into  force or will enter into 
force by 2023 in five States (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia and Utah)25.  

The EDPB also notes that corresponding initiatives for further State laws have already been launched 
in many other US States.  

Furthermore, the EDPB explicitly welcomes the efforts regarding the bipartisan initiative for a federal 
data protection law, the American Data Privacy and Protection Act (ADPPA).  

1.3.4  Scope of the Draft Decision  

According  to  Article  1  of  the  Draft  Decision,  the  Commission  concludes  that  the  US  ensures  an 
adequate level of protection for personal data transferred from the EU to organisations in the United 
States that are included in the ‘Data Privacy Framework List’, maintained and made publicly available 
by the U.S. Department of Commerce (‘DoC’), in accordance with Section I.3 of Annex I 26. 

The DPF is available to companies under the jurisdiction  of the FTC or the DoT. It is pointed out that 
other US statutory bodies  with similar powers might be added in future27.  

1.3.5  Limitations to the duty to adhere to the DPF Principles 

Annex I, I.5. provides that adherence to the DPF Principles by DPF Organisations may be limited, among 
others,  (i)  to  the  extent  necessary  to  comply  with  a  court  order  or  to  meet  public  interest, law 
enforcement28, or national security requirements29 (including where statute or government regulation 
create conflicting obligations)  and (ii)  by statute, court order, or government regulation that creates 
explicit  authorisations,  provided  that, in  exercising  any  such  authorisation, a  DPF  organisation can 
demonstrate that its non-compliance with the DPF Principles is limited to the extent necessary to meet 
the overriding legitimate interests furthered by such authorisation. 

                                                             
24 Roundtable of G7 Data Protection and Privacy Authorities, Promoting Data Free Flow with Trust and knowledge 
sharing about the prospects for International Data Spaces, 8 September 2022, 
https://www.bfdi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/EN/G7/Communique-
2022.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=1. 
25  California Consumer Privacy Act (2018; effective Jan. 1, 2020); California Privacy Rights Act (2020; fully 
operative Jan. 1, 2023); Colorado Privacy Act (2021; effective July 1, 2023); Connecticut Data Privacy Act (2022; 
effective July 1, 2023); Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (2021; effective Jan. 1, 2023); Utah Consumer 
Privacy Act (2022; effective Dec. 31, 2023).  
26Draft Decision, Final Considerations, Article 1, p. 57. The EDPB understands that the Draft Decision will not 
cover transfers from entities located outside the EU but subject to the GDPR by virtue of Article 3(2) GDPR to 
certified entities in the US.   
27  Draft Decision, Annex I, Section I.2. 
28 See Section 3.1 of the present opinion for more comments on the use of personal data covered by the EU-U.S. 
DPF for law enforcement purposes. 
29 See Section 3.2 of the present opinion for more comments on the use of personal data covered by the EU-U.S. 
DPF for national security purposes.  

Adopted 

 

14 

 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

Without full knowledge of US law at both the federal and state level, it is difficult for the EDPB to assess 
in detail the scope of the exemptions listed in this paragraph. Therefore, the EDPB recommends that 
the Commission  includes in the Draft Decision clarification on the scope of the exemptions, including 
on the applicable safeguards under US law, in order to better identify the impact of these exemptions 
on the level of protection for data subjects. The EDPB also underlines that the Commission  should  be 
informed of  and monitor the application and adoption of any statute or government regulation that 
would affect adherence to the DPF Principles. 

1.3.6  Changes with regard to the ’Privacy Shield’  

The  EDPB  welcomes  the  effort  made  to  address  the  requirements  of  the  Schrems  II  judg ment. 
Nevertheless,  the  EDPB would  have  welcomed,  if  more  issues  identified  (i)  in  the  WP29  Opinion 
01/2016 and (ii)  in the past joint  reviews30, would  have been also  addressed on  the occasion  of the 
negotiations of the DPF. 

The EDPB also notes that despite a number of changes and additional explanations made in the recitals 
of  the  Draft Decision,  the  DPF  Principles  to  which  the  DPF  Organisations  have  to  adhere  remain 
essentially unchanged with regard to those applicable under the Privacy Shield.  

1.3.7  Lack of clarity  in the documents of the DPF  

The EDPB notes that the structure of the annexes and their numbering makes the information rather 
difficult to find and refer to. This contributes to an overall complex presentation of the new framework, 
which  compiles  in  its  annexes  documents  of  different  legal  value,  and  may  not  favour  a  good 
understanding  of  the  DPF  Principles  by  data subjects,  DPF  Organisations,  and  EU  Data Protection 
Authorities (‘EU DPA’s’).  

The EDPB also stresses that the terminology should be used  consistently throughout the DPF. This is 
currently not the case, for example, for the notion  of  ‘processing’. Indeed, some of the parts of the 
DPF  enumerate  some  types  of  data  processing  operations 
instead  of  making  use  of  the 
term ‘processing’. This may result in legal uncertainty and possible  loopholes  in the protection31  

The EDPB welcomes that definitions  of some  of the terms used  are included  in the DPF32. However, 
this is not the case for some other essential terms such as at least ‘agent’ or ‘processor’, which in the 
view of the EDPB warrant a clear and specific definition in Annex I, I 8 of the DPF, and on which both 
the US and the EU agree, in order to avoid confusion  at a later stage for DPF Organisations relying on 
the DPF, the supervisory  authorities and the general public. 

                                                             
30 Annual reviews: EU–U.S. Privacy Shield – First Annual Joint Review, WP 255, WP29 Report Adopted on 28 
November 2017 (hereinafter ‘First Joint Review report’); EU-U.S. Privacy Shield - Second Annual Joint Review, 
EDPB Report Adopted on 22 January 2019 (hereinafter ‘Second Joint Review report’); EU-U.S. Privacy Shield - 
Third Annual Joint Review, EDPB Report Adopted on 12 November 2019 (hereinafter ‘Third Joint Review report’). 
31 For instance (i) according to the wording of the Draft Decision, Annex I, Section III.6.(f), the DPF Principles 
would be applicable only where the organisation “stores, uses or discloses” the received data (i.e. not for other 
operations covered by the  term ‘processing’, such  as  collecting, recording, alteration, retrieval, consulting, 
erasure.) and (ii) according to the Draft Decision, Annex I , Section II.4.(a), data security would be imposed only 
for ‘creating, maintaining, using or disseminating’ personal information.  
32 Draft Decision, Annex I, I 8. 

Adopted 

 

15 

 

39. 

As to the question of diverging interpretations in the EU and the US on the concept of human resources 
(HR) data, the EDPB agrees with the Commission’s  third review report on the objective of continuing 
the discussions  with US authorities33 . 

40. 

 
41. 

42. 

43. 

2  GENERAL DATA PROTECTION ASPECTS  

2.1  Content principles  

2.1.1  Concepts 

Based on the GDPR Adequacy Referential, basic data protection concepts and/or principles should exist 
in the third country’s legal framework. Although these do not have to mirror the GDPR terminology, 
they should  reflect and be consistent  with the concepts enshrined  in European data protection law. 
For  example, the  GDPR includes  the  following  important concepts:  ’personal  data’, ’processing  of 
personal data’, ’data controller’, ’data processor’, ‘recipient’ and ’sensitive data’. The EDPB welcomes 
that definitions  of the terms ‘personal data’, ‘processing’ and ‘controller’ are included in the DPF, as it 
was the case in the Privacy Shield. 

The  EDPB notes  that  the  extent to  which  the  DPF  Principles  are  applicable  to  DPF  Organisations 
receiving  personal  data  from  the  EU  for  ‘mere  processing’  purposes  (referred  to  as  ‘agents’ or 
‘processors’)  remains  unclear. The  DPF  does  not  distinguish  between  DPF  Principles  applicable  to 
agents and DPF Principles applicable to controllers, while several of the obligations included in the DPF 
Principles are not suitable for agents/processors. For instance, an agent/processor should  not be a ble 
to provide individuals  with all the elements of the full  Notice as required by the Notice principle  (e.g. 
the purposes for which it collects and uses personal information about them)34, as an agent/processor 
cannot determine alone the means and purposes of the processing35.  

2.1.2  The purpose limitation principle 

The  GDPR  Adequacy  Referential, in  line  with  the  GDPR, provides  that  personal  data  should  be 
processed  for a specific purpose  and subsequently  used  only  insofar as this is not incompatible with 
the purpose of the processing. 

The  Data Integrity and  Purpose  Limitation  principle  states  that  an  organisation  may  not  process 
personal  information  in  a way  incompatible  with  the purposes  for  which  it has  been  collected  or 
subsequently  authorised by the individual36. The EDPB notes that different terminology is used under 
the Notice, the Choice and the Data Integrity and Purpose Limitation principles. As noted by the WP29 
and despite useful clarification in the recitals of the Draft Decision, terms such as ’different purposes’, 
‘materially different’ purposes, or ‘a use that is not consistent with’ are used in the DPF without a clear 
definition of these concepts therein and might lead to legal uncertainty.  

                                                             
33  Third  Joint  Review  Report,  pages.  5,  15-16  and  30;  See  also Commission Staff  Working  Document 
Accompanying the document Report From The Commission to the European Parliament and The Council on the 
third annual review of the functioning of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, p.17-18.  
34 Draft Decision, Annex I, Section II.1.(a). 
35 Please also refer to the WP29 Opinion 01/2016, p.16.  
36 Draft Decision, Annex I, Section II.5.  

Adopted 

 

16 

 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

2.1.3  Rights of access, rectification,  erasure and objection                

In  the  DPF,  data subjects’  rights  to  access, rectification  and  erasure  are addressed  by  the  Access 
principle37.  

The Access principle remains unchanged compared to the Privacy Shield. Consequently, some points 
of concern expressed in the WP29 Opinion 01/2016 are still valid as detailed below. 

With regard to individuals’ right of access, the EDPB finds it necessary to reiterate that the details of 
the obligation to answer requests from individuals  would  be better inserted in  the main text of the 
principle  (they are still described in  a footnote only38).  Also, it should  be clear that access should  be 
provided  to  the  extent that a  DPF  Organisation  processes  personal  information,  not  only  when  it 
‘stores’ it39. In the view of the EDPB, the current wording could lead to a narrow interpretation of the 
right of access.   

In relation to the list of exceptions to the right of access40, some still tend to incline the balance towards 
the interests of DPF organisations. It remains a concern to the EDPB that, in those cases, there seems 
to be no requirement to take into account the rights and interests of the individual41.  

Another exception, which has been subject to previous concern by the WP2942 and which to the EDPB 
seems  overly  broad,  is  the  exception  to  the  right of  access  for  publicly  available information  and 
information  from  public  records43. The EDPB has  repeatedly stated that, according to EU  law, data 
subjects always have the right of access their data regardless of whether or not the personal data have 
been published. If requests for access were to be rejected on the grounds that the data were obtained 
from publicly  available sources or public records, the individuals  would lose the ability to control the 
accuracy of the data and to control whether the data were lawfully made public in the first place.  

The EDPB recalls that the right of access is enshrined in Article 8(2) of the Charter. While this is not an 
absolute  right, it is fundamental  for the right to the protection of  personal data as it facilitates the 
exercise of the other rights of the data subject, such as correction and erasure, and the right to object44.  

In addition to the rights of access, erasure and deletion, data subjects should  have the right to object 
on compelling legitimate grounds relating to their particular situation, at any time, to the processing 
of their data under specific conditions  established in the third country legal framework45. 

With the Choice  principle,  the DPF  provides  for a right to object (opt-out)  to disclosure  of personal 
information to a third party or to the use of personal information for a purpose materially different 46. 
In addition, individuals benefit from a right to opt-out to the use of their personal information for direct 
marketing purpose at any time47. Except for the context of direct marketing purposes, the modalities, 

                                                             
37 Draft Decision, Annex I, II.6 and III.8.a.(i). 
38 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.8.a.(i)1. -  footnote 14. 
39 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.8.d(ii). 
40 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.8.e. 
41 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.5. 
42 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.9.  
43 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.15.d-e. 
44 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.5. 
45 GDPR Adequacy Referential, section 3.A.8. 
46 Draft Decision,  Annex I, II.2.(a). 
47 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.12.(a). 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

56. 

in  particular of  the  timing, for  exercising the right to  object, are not  detailed. Therefore, the EDPB 
invites the Commission  to clarify how individuals  can exercise their right to object.   

As stated in the WP29 Opinion 01/2016, the EDPB considers that the simple reference to the existence 
of  this right in the privacy policy  cannot be sufficient. An  individualised  opportunity  to  exercise this 
right should  be  offered  not  only  in  case of  disclosure  or  re-use  of  personal  information.  The EDPB 
emphasises  that  a  general  right  to  object  on  compelling  legitimate grounds  relating  to  the  data 
subject’s particular situation should be offered within the DPF. The EDPB recommends that such right 
to object be guaranteed at any given moment, and that this right is not limited to the use of the data 
for direct marketing48.  

In  relation  to  HR data, the  EDPB appreciates  the  clarifications  of  the  Commission  as  regards the 
application  of  the Notice  and  Choice  Principles  in  the situation  where  a certified U.S. organisation 
intends  to  use  HR  data  for  a  different,  non-employment-related  purpose,  such  as  marketing 
communications49.   However,  the  EDPB  maintains  that  further  processing  of  HR  data  for  non-
employment-related purposes will in most cases be considered incompatible with the original purpose, 
and that consent will rarely be entirely free when given in an employment context.  

The EDPB also  reiterates the concerns  of the  WP29 in  relation to the exemption  to the Notice and 
Choice Principles for HR data ‘to the extent and for the period necessary to avoid prejudicing the ability 
of  the organisation  in  making  promotions, appointments  or other similar  employment decisions’,50 
which to the EDPB appears broad and vague51. 

2.1.4  Restrictions on onward transfers   

Onward transfers of  the personal  data by the initial recipient of  the original data transfer should be 
permitted only where the further recipient (i.e. the recipient of the onward transfer) is also subject to 
rules (including contractual rules) affording an adequate level of protection and following the relevant 
instructions  when  processing  data on  the  behalf  of  the  data controller. The  level  of  protection of 
individuals  whose  data is  transferred  must  not  be  undermined  by  the  onward transfer. The  initial 
recipient of the data transferred from the EU shall be liable to ensure that appropriate safeguards are 
provided for onward transfers of data in the absence of an adequacy decision. Such onward transfers 
of data should  only take place for limited and specified purposes and as long as there is a legal ground 
for that processing52. 

According to the Accountability for Onward Transfers principle of the DPF, onward transfers can only 
take place for limited and specified purposes, on the basis of a contract between the DPF Organisation 
and the third party (or comparable arrangement within a corporate group) and only  if that contract 
requires  the third party to  provide  the same level  of  protection as the one  guaranteed by  the DPF 
Principles53.  

                                                             
48 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.2. 
49  Draft Decision, Annex I, III.9.b.(i) and Recital 15 and footnote 27. 
50  Draft Decision, Annex I, III.9.b.iv. 
51 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.7. 
52 GDPR Adequacy Referential, section 3.A.9. 
53 Draft Decision, Annex I, II.3. 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

The EDPB would like to reiterate the concerns expressed in the WP29 Opinion  01/2016 regarding the 
exemption to the need of contract for intra-group transfers between controllers54. In relation to HR 
data, the EDPB still does not understand the rationale for the exemption from the obligation to enter 
into a contract with a third-party controller in case of onward transfers for ’occasional employment-
related operational needs’55. 

Furthermore, the  EDPB would  like  to  repeat the WP29  request 56  that organisations  bound  by  the 
framework should  assess  prior to an onward transfer that the mandatory requirements of the third 
country’s  national  legislation  applicable  to  the  recipient  would  not  undermine  the  continuity  of 
protection of the data subjects whose data are transferred57.  

The  EDPB  maintains  that  onward  transfers  of  personal  data  to  third  countries  could  lead  to 
interferences  with  individuals’  fundamental  rights  and  invites  the  Commission  to  clarify  that  the 
safeguards imposed by  the initial recipient on the importer in  the third country must be effective in 
light of third country legislation, prior to an onward transfer in the context of the DPF58 .    

2.1.5  Automated decision-making and profiling 

Decisions  based  solely  on  automated processing  (automated individual  decision-making),  including 
profiling, which produce legal effects or significantly affect the data subject, can take place only under 
certain conditions  established in the third country legal framework. In the European framework, such 
conditions  include,  for example, the need  to obtain  the explicit  consent  of  the data subject  or the 
necessity of such a decision for the conclusion  of a contract. If the decision does not comply with such 
conditions  as laid down in the third country legal framework, the data subject should  have the right 
not  to  be  subject  to  it.  The  law  of  the  third  country  should,  in  any  case,  provide  for  necessary 
safeguards, including the right to be informed about the specific reasons underlying the decision  and 
the logic involved, to correct inaccurate or incomplete information, and to contest the decision where 
it has been adopted on an incorrect factual basis59.  

61. 

The DPF does not provide for any specific legal guarantees where individuals  are subject to decisions 
which produce legal effects concerning or significantly affecting them and which are based solely on 
automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to them, such as 
their performance at work, creditworthiness, reliability or conduct. 

                                                             
54  Draft Decision, Annex I, III.10.b(i), which refers to ‘or other intra -group instruments (e.g.  compliance and 
control programs’) which apparently do not need to be binding. 
55 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.9.e(i), referring to examples such as insurance coverage. 
56  WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.3, p. 21.  
57  In light of the  Schrems II  judgment, the EDPB has further clarified the obligations for data exporters and 
importers in  relation to  onward transfers in  a  number  of  guidelines and  recommendations: see  EDPB 
Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level 
of protection of personal data (Version 2.0, adopted on 18 June 2021); Recommendations 02/2020 on the 
European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures (Adopted on 10 November 2020); Guidelines 04/2021 
on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers (Version 2.0 Adopted on 22 February 2022); Recommendations 1/2022 
on the Application for Approval and on the elements and principles to be found in Controller Binding Corporate 
Rules (Adopted on 14 November 2022); Guidelines 07/2022 on certification as a tool for transfers (adopted after 
public consultation on 14 February 2023). 
58  WP29 Opinion 01/2016, pt. 2.2.3, p. 21.  
59  GDPR Adequacy Referential, Section 3.B.3. 

Adopted 

 

19 

62. 

63. 

64. 

65. 

66. 

67. 

68. 

 

As already considered in the WP29 Opinion  01/2016 and by the EDPB in its previous  opinions  on the 
adequacy decisions relating to Japan and South Korea 60, the EDPB finds that rapid developments in the 
field of automated decision-making and profiling – increasingly by means of AI technologies - call for 
particular attention in this regard. 61  

The EDPB takes note of the Commission’s  arguments, according to which the absence of specific rules 
on  automated  decision-making  in  the  DPF  is  unlikely  to  affect  the  level  of  protection  as  regards 
personal data that has been collected in the Union (since any decision based on automated processing 
would  typically  be  taken  by  the  controller  in  the  Union  which  has  a  direct  relationship  with  the 
concerned data subject)62. However, in the view of the EDPB, it cannot be ruled out that automated 
decision-making could be used by a US-based controller on data transferred under the Draft Decision 
(e.g. in the context of employment, for assessing performance at work, insurance, housing).   

The EDPB welcomes the Commission’s  references to specific safeguards provided  by  relevant US law 
in  different    fields63.  However, to the  EDPB, the level  of  protection  for  individuals  appears  to vary 
according to which sector-specific  rules – if any – apply to the situation at hand. There is  a risk  that 
some situations will not be covered because they do not fall within the scope of the acts referred to. 
Furthermore, the content of  individual  rights in  relation to automated decision-making  is described 
differently in the various acts.  

On this background, the EDPB considers that specific rules in the DPF concerning automated decision-
making are needed in order to provide  sufficient safeguards, including  the right for the  individual to 
know the logic involved, to challenge the decision and to obtain human intervention when the decision 
significantly affects him or her 64. 

2.2  Procedural and Enforcement Mechanisms   

The EDPB notes that the DPF continues to rely on a system of self-certification, even if the Commission 
refers to it as a system of ‘certification’. 

The EDPB recalls the improvements achieved in the course of the past joint reviews. For instance, as 
regards the role of  the DoC, on the (re-)self-certification  process  (…), the monitoring of  companies’ 
compliance with the DPF Principles  (e.g. through spot checks, the use of compliance questionnaires) 
and identifying and addressing false claims of participation (e.g. through internet searches).  

At the same time, the WP29 and the EDPB had expressed concerns about a certain lack of oversight of 
compliance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Privacy  Shield65.  In  particular, the  EDPB agrees with the 
Commission’s findings after the third annual review of the Privacy Shield  that, under the Privacy Shield, 
spot-checks  by  the  DoC  tended  to  be  limited  to  formal  requirements  (e.g. lack  of  response  from 

                                                             
60 EDPB Opinion 28/2018 regarding the European Commission Draft Implementing Decision on the adequate 
protection of personal data in Japan, adopted on 5  December 2018 ; EDPB Opinion 32/2021 regarding the 
European Commission Draft Implementing Decision on the adequate protection of personal data in the Republic 
of Korea, adopted on 24 September 2021.  
61  See,  inter  alia, C-634/21, OQ v Land Hesse  (SCHUFA Holding and Others), Request for preliminary ruling 
(pending). 
62 Draft Decision, Recitals 33 and 34. 
63 Draft Decision, Recital 35. 
64 See also Third Joint Review report, pt. 76. 
65 Third Joint Review report, pt. 7. 

Adopted 

 

20 

 

69. 

70. 

designated  points  of  contact  or  inaccessibility  of  a  company's  privacy  policy  online)66.  The  EDPB 
considers that compliance checks as regards more substantive requirements are crucial.  

The EDPB also recalls the importance of effective oversight (including of compliance with substantive 
requirements)  and  enforcement  of  the  DPF.  This  aspect  will  be  closely  monitored  by  the  EDPB, 
including in the context of the periodic reviews. 

As  regards enforcement, the EDPB takes note of the renewed commitments in  the letters from the 
FTC67  and  the  DoT68  to  prioritise  the  investigation  of  alleged  DPF  violations,  take  appropriate 
enforcement  action  against  entities  making  false  or  deceptive  claims  of  participation,  monitor 
enforcement orders concerning DPF violations and cooperate with EU DPAs. In this respect,  the EDPB 
also recognises that the FTC has indicated that it expects to further focus its enforcement efforts on 
substantive violations  of  the DPF and that it intends  to investigate (also) on  its own initiative.  These 
aspects will be closely monitored by the EDPB including in the context of the periodic reviews.  

2.3  Redress mechanisms  

71. 

72. 

73. 

74. 

75. 

The EDPB welcomes the clear presentation in the Draft Decision of the seven redress avenues provided 
to EU data subjects, if their personal data are processed in violation of the DPF69.  

These  different  recourse  mechanisms  are established  in  accordance with  the  requirements  of  the 
Recourse,  Enforcement  and  Liability  principle  and  the  Supplemental  Principle  11  on  ‘Dispute 
Resolution and Enforcement’ issued by the DoC, and mentioned in Annex I to Draft Decision70.  

As  underlined  by  the  Commission  in  its  Draft Decision, ‘the data  subject  should  be  provided  with 
effective administrative and judicial  redress’71. This echoes the requirement of Article 45(2)(a) GDPR, 
according to which the Commission,  in its assessment of the adequacy of the level of protection in a 
third country, has to take account, in particular, of ‘effective administrative and judicial redress for the 
data subjects  whose  personal data are being transferred’ 72. This requirement is  also recalled by the 
GDPR Adequacy Referential73. 

The EDPB notes that these redress mechanisms are the same as those included in the former Privacy 
Shield, which had been subject to comments by the WP2974.  

With regard to the arbitration mechanism, the EDPB notes that this option is not available with respect 
to the exceptions to the DPF Principles75 and therefore refers to its comment made in paragraph 33.  

                                                             
66 Report from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the third annual review of the 
functioning of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield (23.10.2019 COM(2019) 495 final), p.4.  
67 Draft Decision, Annex IV 
68 Draft Decision, Annex V 
69 Draft Decision, Recital 67.  
70 Draft Decision, Annex I, Section II.7 and III. 11 and Annex I to Annex I. 
71 Draft Decision, Recital 64. 
72 See also Recital 141 GDPR referring to Article 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights for the right to an effective 
judicial remedy in the EU.  
73 GDPR Adequacy Referential, p.8. 
74 See in particular, WP29 Opinion 01/2016, Section 2.2.6 (a). 
75 Draft Decision, Annex I to Annex I, A. 

Adopted 

 

21 

 

76. 

77. 

78. 

With  regard to additional avenues  for  judicial  redress available under  US law, the EDPB would  also 
welcome further details on the legislation mentioned76 and refer to its comment made in  paragraph 
21. 

In addition, the EDPB welcomes the letter from the FTC describing its intent to work closely  with EU 
DPAs77. The EDPB also welcomes the prioritisation of complaints by the FTC although it may not give 
certainty to the data subject that its complaints will be dealt with in all cases.  

As regards the possibility, in certain cases, for individuals  to bring their complaints to an EU DPA, the 
EDPB would welcome further information (i) as to whether the EU DPA’s possibility  to give advice on 
remedial  or  compensatory  measures  could  include  recommendation  for  fines  or  the  use  of 
investigative powers  and (ii)  to  which  extent the EU  DPA’s action  would  be  taken into  account as 
evidence for enforcement action by the FTC or the DoT78.  

79. 

The effectiveness of  the redress  mechanisms will be closely  monitored by  the EDPB including in the 
context of the periodic reviews.  

3  ACCESS AND USE OF PERSONAL DATA TRANSFERRED FROM THE 

EUROPEAN UNION BY PUBLIC AUTHORITIES IN THE US  

3.1  Access and use for criminal law enforcement purposes    

3.1.1  Access  by law  enforcement  authorities to personal data should be based on clear, 

precise  and accessible  rules 

80.  The  EDPB  welcomes  the  more  detailed  information  and  explanations,  compared  to  the  previous 
adequacy decision, provided  for in  the Draft Decision with regard to the access and  use of personal 
data by U.S. public authorities for criminal law enforcement purposes. The Draft Decision, in its Annex 
VI, contains  also  a  letter from  the  U.S. Department  of  Justice,  Criminal  Division  “providing  a  brief 
overview  of  the  primary  investigative  tools  used  to  obtain  commercial  data  and  other  record 
information  from  corporations in  the United  States for criminal  law enforcement or public  interest 
(civil  and  regulatory)  purposes,  including  the  access  limitations  set  forth  in  those  authorities”. 
According to the letter, all the legal processes described  in the letter are used to obtain information 
from corporations in the U.S., without regard to the nationality or place of residence of the data subject 
and  stem  either  from  the  U.S. Constitution  directly  (the  Fourth  Amendment),  from  statutory  and 
procedural law or from Guidelines and Policies of  the Department of Justice. This overview does not 
cover the national security investigative tools used by law enforcement in terrorism and other national 
security investigations79. 

81.  The EDPB notes that the Draft Decision and its Annex VI discuss primarily federal law enforcement and 
regulatory authorities80 and do not refer specifically to  the statutes under state law that provide for 
these procedures to obtain information.,  Annex VI also mentions that “there are other legal bases for 
companies to challenge data requests from administrative agencies based on their specific industries 

                                                             
76 Draft Decision, Recital 85. 
77 Draft Decision, Annex IV.  
78 Draft Decision, Annex I, III.5.b.(iii). 
79 Draft Decision, Footnote 1 to Annex VI. 
80 See Draft Decision, recitals 90-93. 

Adopted 

 

22 

 

and the types of data they possess”,  giving in addition several, non-exhaustive  examples, such as the 
Bank  Secrecy  Act and  its  implementing  regulations81, the  Fair  Credit  Reporting Act82, the  Right to 
Financial  Privacy Act83. The EDPB notes  that the applicable legal basis  to a given request  for access 
depends  on  the  nature  of  the  data  sought,  the  nature  of  the  company,  the  nature  of  the  legal 
procedures  (criminal,  administrative, related to  other  public  interest)  and  the nature of  the entity 
requesting access. Since  all  applicable  rules  to limit  access by  law  enforcement authorities to  data 
transferred to the U.S. are based on the Constitution, on statutory law and on transparent policies of 
the  Department of  Justice,  the  EDPB acknowledges  the  accessibility  of  these  rules  and  invites  the 
Commission  to reflect this element in the Draft Decision. It stems from Annex VI, these statutes apply 
regardless of nationality or place of residence of the data subject and generally incorporate the Fourth 
Amendment  requirements  (although  they  often  also  go  beyond  that  and  include  additional 
protections). 

82. 

In conclusion, the EDPB notes the more detailed assessment contained in the Draft Decision compared 
to the previous adequacy decision as far as access by federal law enforcement authorities is concerned. 
As for access by state law enforcement authorities, the EDPB also takes note that according to Annex 
VI, state law protections  must be at least equal to those  of  the U.S. Constitution,  including  but not 
limited to the Fourth Amendment. The EDPB invites the Commission  to further assess  the element of 
state law protection in the future reviews.  

3.1.2  Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate  objectives  pursued need to 

be demonstrated  

83.  The EDPB duly notes that requesting access to data for law enforcement purposes  can, in general, be 
considered to pursue a legitimate objective. However, at the same time, such interferences are only 
acceptable when they are necessary and proportionate. 84 

84.  According  to  the  settled  case-law  of  the  CJEU,  the  principle  of  proportionality  requires  that  the 
legislative measures introducing interferences with the rights to private life and to the protection of 
personal data “be appropriate for attaining the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislation at issue 
and  do  not  exceed  the  limits  of  what  is  appropriate  and  necessary  in  order  to  achieve  those 
objectives”85. Therefore, the assessment of necessity and proportionality is, in principle, always done 
in relation to a specific measure envisaged by legislation.  

85.  The U.S. authorities specify in Annex VI that federal prosecutors  and federal investigative agents are 
able to gain access to documents and other record information  from organisations through “several 
types of compulsory  legal processes,  including grand jury subpoenas,  administrative subpoenas,  and 
search warrants” and may acquire other communications “pursuant to federal criminal wiretap and 

                                                             
81 31 U.S.C. § 5318; 31 C.F.R. Chapter X 
82 15 U.S.C. § 1681b 
83 12 U.S.C. §§ 3401-3423 
84 See Judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 October 2020 in joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and C-520/18, La 
Quadrature du Net  and others , ECLI:EU:C:2020:791 (hereinafter, ‘CJEU La  Quadrature du Net  judgment’), 
paragraph 140. See also EDPS, Assessing the necessity of measures that limit the fundamental right to the 
protection of personal data: a toolkit, 11 April 2017 and EDPS Guidelines on assessing the proportionality of 
measures that limit the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data, 19 December 2019.  
85 See Judgment of the Court of Justice of 8 April 2014 in Joined Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights 
Ireland, ECLI:EU:C:2014:238 (hereinafter: ‘CJEU Digital Rights Ireland judgment’), paragraph 46 and case-law 
cited therein. 

Adopted 

 

23 

 

pen  register authorities”86. In addition, agencies with civil  and  regulatory responsibilities  may issue 
subpoenas  to organisations for “business  records, electronically stored information, or other tangible 
items”87. The processes themselves are also explained in recitals 90-93 of the Draft Decision. The EDPB 
notes in this regard a positive development referred to in the Draft Decision in the U.S. jurisprudence 
regarding the electronically stored information88. 

86.  Annex  VI  furthermore  specifies  that  these  legal  proceedings  are  non-discriminatory  and  used  in 
general to obtain information from ‘corporations’ in the U.S., irrespective of whether they are certified 
or not within the U.S.-EU Data Privacy  Framework, and “without regard to the nationality or place of 
residence of the data subject”.  

87. 

88. 

In addition, Annex VI contains findings regarding the safeguards under the Fourth Amendment of the 
U.S. Constitution, according to which searches and seizures by law enforcement authorities principally 
require a court-ordered warrant upon a showing of probable cause and particularity requirements and 
refers  to  the  fact that  in  exceptional  cases  where  the  warrant requirement  does  not  apply,  law 
enforcement is subject to a reasonableness test under the Fourth Amendment 89. A person subject to 
a search or whose property is subject to a search may move to suppress evidence obtained or derived 
from an unlawful search if that evidence is introduced against that person during a criminal trial90.  

In conclusion, the EDPB notes that the system of  investigative tools  used to obtain commercial data 
and  other record information  from  corporations  in the  U.S. for  criminal law enforcement  or public 
interest purposes  – including  the access limitations and  safeguards – provides  a comprehensive  but 
also  a complex  system  of  measures,  reflecting, among other things,  the federal nature   of  the U.S 
government.  

89.  Thus,  the  system  of  law  enforcement  investigative  measures  in  the  U.S  could  be  considered  as 
generally meeting the requirements of necessity  and proportionality  in relation to the fundamental 
rights to private life and data protection.  

3.1.3  An independent oversight mechanism should exist  

90.  The EDPB duly notes the fact that most of the procedures described in the Draft Decision and Annex 
VI presuppose the involvement of a court’s decision before the authorities obtain access to data (e.g. 
court orders for pen register and trap and races91, court orders for surveillance pursuant to the Federal 
Wiretap Law92, search warrants – Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 4193). However, it seems 
that not  all  of  them  require  the a  priori  involvement  of  a  court. For  instance,  civil  and  regulatory 
authorities  “may issue  subpoenas”94.  In these  cases however, there is  the possibility  of  an ex  post 

                                                             
86 Draft Decision, Annex VI, p. 2. 
87 Draft Decision, Annex VI, p. 4. 
88 See Draft Decision, footnote 146. In a 2018 judgment, the U.S. Supreme Court confirmed that a search warrant 
or warrant exception is also required for law enforcement authorities to access historical cell site location 
records, that provide a comprehensive overview of a user’s movements and that the user can have a reasonable 
expectation of privacy with respect to such information (Timothy Ivory Carpenter v. United States of America, 
No. 16-402, 585 U.S. (2018)). 
89 See Draft Decision, Annex VI, p. 2. 
90 See Draft Decision, recital 90. 
91 See Draft Decision, recital 92. 
92 See Draft Decision, Annex VI, p 3. 
93 See Draft Decision, recital 90 and Annex VI, p 3. 
94 See Draft Decision, Annex VI, p. 4 as well as recital 91. 

Adopted 

 

24 

 

judicial control of the reasonableness of the subpoena, as “a recipient of an administrative subpoena 
may challenge the enforcement of that subpoena in court”95.  

91. 

In addition, the Draft Decision describes the oversight of the federal criminal law enforcement agencies 
by  various  bodies,  from  the inner  control  by  the Privacy  and Civil  Liberties Officers  to  the external 
control  carried  out  by  the  Inspector  General and  specific  Committees  in  the U.S.  Congress96.  The 
European  Commission  provides  nuanced  and  detailed 
information,  and  generally  reaches 
comprehensible  conclusions.  Therefore, the EDPB refrains from reproducing  the factual finding  and 
assessments in this opinion.  

92.  Based on the available information, the EDPB notes that, with regard to access by  law enforcement 
authorities to data held by companies in the U.S., a fairly robust independent oversight mechanism is 
in place. 

3.1.4  Effective  remedies need to be available to the individual  

93.  According to the jurisprudence of the CJEU, an individual must have an effective remedy to satisfy their 
rights when they consider that they are not or have not been respected. The CJEU explained in Schrems 
I that “legislation not providing for any possibility  for an individual  to pursue legal remedies in order 
to have access to personal data relating to him, or to obtain the rectification or erasure of such  data, 
does not respect the essence of the fundamental right to effective judicial protection, as enshrined  in 
Article 47 of  the Charter. The  first paragraph of  Article 47 of  the Charter requires  everyone whose 
rights and freedoms guaranteed by the law of the European Union are violated to have the right to an 
effective remedy before a tribunal in compliance with the conditions  laid down in that article.”97 

94.  The Draft Decision98  and its  Annex  VI contain further  information with  regard to possible  remedies 
stemming  from  statutory  law,  which  would  be  available  to  individuals  when  public  authorities 
unlawfully obtain access to their data.  

95. 

In this regard, according to the Commission99,   5  U.S.C. § 702 (Administrative  Procedure Act (APA)), 
provides  that  a  person  suffering  legal  wrong  because  of  agency  action,  or  adversely  affected  or 
aggrieved by  agency action  within  the meaning  of  a  relevant statute, is  entitled  to  judicial  review 
thereof. 

96.  Furthermore,  the  Stored  Communications  Act  (SCA)  (enacted  as  title  II  of  the  Electronic 
Communications  Privacy Act) provides  that, any person aggrieved by any violation  of that chapter in 
which the conduct constituting the violation is engaged in with a knowing or intentional state of mind 
may, in a civil action, recover from the person or entity, other than the United States, which engaged 
in that violation such relief as may be appropriate100. In addition, any person who is aggrieved by any 
willful  violation of  that chapter or of chapter 119 may commence an action in United States District 
Court against the United States to recover money damages101. 

                                                             
95 See Draft Decision, Annex VI, p. 4 as well as recital 91. 
96 See Draft Decision, Recitals 103-106. 
97 CJEU Schrems I judgment, paragraph 95. 
98 See Draft Decision, recitals 107 to 112. 
99 See Draft Decision, recital 109. 
100 18 U.S.C. § 2707 
101 18 U.S.C. § 2712 

Adopted 

 

25 

 

97.  Moreover, the Draft Decision also contains information on the right to obtain access to federal agency 
records  under  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act  (FOIA)102  and  several  other  statutes  which  afford 
individuals the right to bring suit against a U.S. public authority or official with respect to the processing 
of their personal data, such as the,  Wiretap Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Federal Torts 
Claim Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act 103. 

98.  The EDPB therefore welcomes the clarifications provided by the Commission as to the number of legal 
avenues for redress for individuals  to rely on. The EDPB also invites the Commission  to further clarify 
whether these remedies allow the data subject to  ‛have access to personal data relating to him, or to 
obtain the rectification or erasure of such data’ as required by the CJEU. 

3.1.5  Further use of the information collected 

3.1.5.1  Further use of transferred data accessed by LEA within the US  

99.  The EDPB positively  notes  that the Draft Decision  assesses  the further use  of  data accessed  by law 
enforcement  authorities within  the U.S. However, the  EDPB regrets that  only  one  example  of  the 
grounds  on which  the information can be  further disseminated  is  given104. In that regard, the EDPB 
recommends the Commission  to include further clarification in the Draft Decision on the principles and 
safeguards applicable on the further use of  data, such as those included  in  the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 
552a)105. 

3.1.5.2  Onward transfers outside the U.S. 

100.  The EDPB further notes that the European Commission has also referred to onward transfers from the 
law enforcement authorities in the U.S to authorities in third countries, but again only with regard to 
the Attorney General Guidelines for Domestic FBI Operations AGG-DOM106. The EDPB considers that 
such information and assessment are essential in order to allow a comprehensive assessment of the 
level of protection afforded by the U.S. legislative framework and practices in relation to international 
disclosure and further use. Given that the Commission  has given only one, limited, example regarding 
the issue of onward transfers outside the U.S. as a whole, the EDPB invites the Commission  to further 
clarify the applicable rules and safeguards for onward transfers, further use and disclosure of personal 
information, collected for law enforcement purposes in the U.S. and subsequently transferred to third 
countries, including via international agreements. 

3.2  Access and use for national security purposes    

101.  As a general remark, the EDPB acknowledges that States are granted a broad margin of appreciation 
in matters of national security, which is  also recognised by the ECtHR. The EDPB also recalls that, as 
underlined  in  its updated recommendations  on the European essential  guarantees for surveillances 
measures107, Article 6(3) Treaty on European Union establishes that the fundamental rights enshrined 
in the ECHR constitute general principles of EU law. However, as the CJEU recalls in its jurisprudence,  
the latter does not constitute, as long as the EU has not acceded to it, a legal instrument which has 

                                                             
102 See Draft Decision, recital 111.  
103 See Draft Decision, recital 112. 
104 See Draft Decision, recital 102.  
105 See Attorney General Guidelines for Domestic FBI Operations (AGG-DOM), page 36, p. B (1)(g) 
106  See Draft Decision, recital 102. 
107 See EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures. 

Adopted 

 

26 

 

been formally incorporated into EU law108. Thus, the level of protection of fundamental rights required 
by Article 45 GDPR must be determined on the basis  of the provisions  of that regulation, read in the 
light of the fundamental rights enshrined in the EU Charter. This being said, according to Article 52(3) 
EU Charter, the rights contained therein that correspond to rights guaranteed by the ECHR are to have 
the same meaning and scope as those laid down by the ECHR. Consequently, as recalled by the CJEU, 
the jurisprudence  of the  ECtHR concerning rights that are also  foreseen  in  the EU Charter must  be 
taken into account, as a minimum threshold of protection to interpret corresponding rights in the EU 
Charter109. According to the last sentence of Article 52(3) EU Charter, however, “[t]his provision shall 
not prevent Union law providing more extensive protection.” 

102.  Therefore, in  the following  assessment,  the EDPB has  taken into  account  the  jurisprudence  of  the 
ECtHR, to the extent that the EU Charter, as interpreted by the CJEU, does not provide for  a higher 
level of protection which prescribes other requirements than the ECtHR case-law. 

103.  Several legal instruments provide for the possibility  to collect and further access and process data for 

U.S. Intelligence agencies in the U.S. legal framework.  

104.  As  recalled by  the European Commission  in  its  Draft Decision, “U.S. intelligence agencies may seek 
access to  personal data that has  been transferred to  organisations  located in  the United States for 
national  security purposes  only  as  authorised by  statute, specifically  under the Foreign  Intelligence 
Surveillance Act (FISA) or and statutory provisions authorising access through National Security Letters 
(NSL)”110. “U.S. intelligence agencies also have possibilities  to collect personal data outside the United 
States, which may include personal data in transit between the Union and the United States” under the 
Executive Order 12333 (EO 12333)111. 

105.  With respect to the specific data collection regimes, in particular Section 702 FISA and EO 12333, EO 
14086 now  provides  for  new rules  to enhance  safeguards for the United  States Signals  Intelligence 
Activities. These general rules  apply horizontally and  “must be further implemented through agency 
policies and procedures that transpose them into concrete directions for day-to-day operations”112. The 
EO 14086  has mostly replaced the previous  Presidential Policy Directive 28 (‛PPD-28’)113. 

106.  In order to assess the legal framework applying to collection, access and further processing of data for 
national security purposes, it is thus important to examine the specific legal framework governing the 
collection of data within and outside the U.S., i.e. Section 702 FISA and EO 12333, which, as such, have 
not changed since the previous review of the Privacy Shield, taking into account the fact that the new 
Executive Order 14086 provides safeguards to be implemented also in the context of collection of data 
on the ground of specific texts such as Section 702 FISA and EO 12333. 

                                                             
108 See CJEU Schrems II judgment, para. 98. 
109 See CJEU La Quadrature du Net judgment, para. 124. 
110 See Draft Decision, recital 115.   
111 See Draft Decision, recital 117.   
112 See Draft Decision, recital 120.   
113 This Executive Order revokes PPD-28 except for sections 3 and 6 of that directive and the classified annex to 
that directive, which remain in effect. See presidential national security memorandum of 7 October 2022. 

Adopted 

 

27 

 

3.2.1  Guarantee A - Processing should be in accordance with the law and based on clear, 

precise  and accessible  rules 

107.  For its assessment of the general setup of data collection for the purpose of national security, the EDPB 
wishes  to  recall the  first of  the four  so  called  “European essential guarantees”, according to  which 
‛processing should  be based on clear, precise and accessible rules’ 114.  

108.  In accordance with the settled case law of the CJEU, any limitation to the right to the protection of 
personal data must be provided for by law and the legal basis which permits the interference with such 
a right must itself define the scope of the limitation to the exercise of the right concerned115. The Court 
also recalled that “legislation must be legally binding under domestic law”116. In this regard, the ECtHR 
case-law clarifies that the term ‘law’ should be understood in its substantive sense, not its formal one. 
It may include enactments of lower ranking statutes and regulatory measures taken by professional 
regulatory bodies under independent rule-making powers delegated to them by Parliament and even 
unwritten  law.  To  be  ‘law’, a  norm  must  at  least  be  adequately  accessible  and  formulated  with 
sufficient precision117.  

109.  The degree of precision required must be measured in  relation to the extent of the limitation of the 
right118. Furthermore, as regards ‘foreseeability’ of the law, the ECtHR recalled in Zakharov that in the 
context of secret measures of surveillance, such as the interception of communications, “foreseeability 
cannot mean that an individual  should  be able to foresee when the authorities are likely  to intercept 
his communications so that he can adapt his conduct accordingly”. However, clear and detailed rules 
on  secret surveillance  measures  are  essential  to  prevent  the  risks  of  arbitrariness  where a  power 
vested  in  the executive is  exercised in  secret. “The domestic  law must  be  sufficiently  clear to give 
citizens an adequate indication as to the circumstances in which and the conditions on which public 
authorities are empowered to resort to any such measures”119. 

110.  In addition, the CJEU clarified that the assessment of the applicable third country law should focus on 
whether it  can be  invoked  and relied  on  by  individuals  before  a court. The  rights  granted to  data 
subjects  should  notably  be  actionable and  individuals  have  to  be provided  with  enforceable rights 
against public  authorities120, which was not  the case in  the context of  the previous  PPD-28. The EO 
14086, which, the EDPB understands, is deemed to have the same legal effect within the US legal order 
as  PPD-28  (i.e. binding  on  the  executive), now  provides  for  actionable  entitlements against  public 
authorities. A detailed assessment of the new enforceable rights of the data subjects is provided in the 
section on redress.  

111.  Recitals 114-152  of  the  Draft Decision  and  Annex  VII provide  a  summary  of  some  aspects  of  the 
governing  legal framework,  the  collection  limitations,  the  retention  and  dissemination  limitations, 
compliance and oversight, transparency and redress. The U.S. legal system  for intelligence activities 
                                                             
114 Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures, adopted on 10 
November 2020. See §175 and §180 Schrems II and Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement) of 26 July 2017, 
§ 139 and the case-law cited. 
115 See CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 174-175 and the case-law cited. See also, as regards access by 
public authorities of Member States, Case C-623/17 Privacy International ECLI:EU:C:2020:790 (hereinafter, ‘CJEU 
Privacy International judgment’), paragraph 65; and CJEU La Quadrature du Net judgment, paragraph 175. 
116 CJEU Privacy International judgment, paragraph 68. 
117  ECtHR, Sunday Times v UK (No 1), 26 April 1979, CE:ECHR:1979:0426JUD000653874 (hereinafter, ‘ECtHR 
Sunday Times v UK No 1 judgment’), para 49. 
118 ECtHR Sunday Times v UK No 1 judgment, para 49. 
119 ECtHR, Zakharov v. Russia, 4 December 2015 (hereinafter, ‘ECtHR Zakharov judgment’), paragraph 229. 
120 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 181. 

Adopted 

 

28 

 

consists  of  a  number  of  different  documents  including  individual  agencies  reports,  policies  and 
procedures.  In  that  regard, the  EDPB  evaluation  is  focused  on  a  limited  number  of  issues  that it 
considers crucial.  

112.  According  to  recitals 115  to  119  of  the  Draft Decision,  access  to  transferred  personal  data  by  US 
national security  authorities may  only  take place under  FISA, under   other statutory provisions  (12 
U.S.C. §3414, 15 U.S.C. § 1681u-1681v and 18 U.S.C. § 2709) or, in  connection with personal  data in 
transit, on  the basis  of EO  12333. It stems from  recitals 116 and  118 of  the Draft Decision  that the 
Commission  focuses its assessment, in connection with access to personal data by US national security 
authorities, on sections 105, 302, 402, 501 and 702 FISA (foreign intelligence activities targeting non-
US persons  located outside  the US) and EO 12333 (foreign intelligence activities on personal  data in 
transit), as being the most relevant. The EDPB opinion  is therefore limited to the assessment of these 
provisions  made by the Commission,  taking into account the limitations and safeguards set out in EO 
14086121. 

113.  In this respect, it is to be noted that all legal instruments mentioned in the Draft Decision are accessible 
for the general public (in and outside of the U.S.) and available online. Furthermore, the requirements 
laid down in the EO are binding  on the entire Intelligence Community122 and apply in a cross-cutting 
way to all foreign intelligence purpose activities.    

114.  The concept of ‘signals intelligence’ is not defined in the EO 14086. The latter refers to the definitions 
set out in the EO 12333 for establishing the scope of foreign intelligence and counterintelligence, which 
are defined broadly. In this regard, even if it has been argued that since the introduction of FISA, EO 
12333 can only be used for the collection of data outside the U.S. territory, the EDPB recalls that EO 
12333  itself, which  remains  intact,   lacks  of  sufficient  details  regarding its  geographical scope, the 
extent to which data can be collected, retained or further disseminated, or on the nature of offences 
that may give rise to surveillance or the kind of information that may be collected or used. In principle, 
all foreign intelligence data collection within the scope of EO 12333 can take place at the discretion of 
the U.S. President.123 However, in the understanding of the EDPB, the main purpose of the EO 14086 
is to prescribe the limits for the collection and the processing of personal data in the context of foreign 
intelligence, no matter which surveillance  programme is used and where data is obtained from. It is 
therefore the understanding of the EDPB that the additional safeguards provided for under EO 14086 
also apply in the context of surveillance programmes applicable to personal data in transit taking place 
under EO 12333124. 

115.  In this respect, the EO 14086 lists 12 legitimate objectives that should be pursued when conducting 
signals  intelligence collection  and 5  objectives  for  which  signals  intelligence collection must  not  be 
conducted125, as well as 6 legitimate objectives for the use of data collected in bulk126. While some of 
them  are  quite  detailed  (e.g.  ‛rescue  of  hostages’),  some  others  are  more  general  (e.g.  'global 
security').  The  EO  14086  sets  out  also  a  list  of  prohibited  objectives,  which  includes  notably  the 

                                                             
121 This Executive Order revokes PPD-28 except for sections 3 and 6 of that directive and the classified annex to 
that directive, which remain in effect. See presidential national security memorandum of 7 October 2022 
122 See Draft Decision, recital 120. 
123  Under Article II of the  U.S.  Constitution, responsibility ensuring national  security including in particular 
gathering foreign intelligence falls within the President’s authority as Commander in Chief of the armed forces. 
124 See Draft Decision, recital 134. 
125 See Executive Order 14086 (‘EO 14086’), section 2, (b), (ii), A, 1 to 5. 
126 See Draft Decision, recital 134 and EO 14086, section 2(c)(ii). 

Adopted 

 

29 

 

suppression  or  restriction  of  'legitimate privacy  interests'127.  The  EO  14086  also  provides  for  the 
possibility  for the President of the United States to add other objectives to the list for which collection 
is allowed, which could, upon decision  of the President, not be released to the public if the President 
considers that doing so would pose a risk to the national security of the United States128. Such updates 
may only be authorised ‛in light of new national security imperatives’.   

116.  The  objectives  cannot  by  themselves  be  relied  upon  by  intelligence  agencies  to  justify  signals 
intelligence collection but must be further substantiated, for operational purposes, into more concrete 
priorities for which signals intelligence may be collected. The EO 14086 details the procedure for the 
validation of  the priorities for  which signals  intelligence may be  collected129. The EDPB understands 
that the process to define the validated intelligence priorities in principle relies on the Director of the 
Intelligence Community  and acknowledges that it should  as a rule involve  the assessment of the Civil 
Liberties Protection Officer  of the Office of  the Director of National Intelligence (CLPO),  with which 
the Director can disagree, in  which  case it “shall  include  the  CLPO’s assessment  and the Director’s 
views when presenting the National Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF) to the President” 130. 

117.  However, the EDPB also notes that according to the definition of “validated intelligence priority”, such 
priorities mean for “most United States signals intelligence collection activities”131 a priority validated 
under section 2(b)(iii)  of the EO (described in the previous paragraph). The process of validation can in 
some  cases differ  from  this  process  in  “narrow circumstances”, in  which  case, the President  or the 
head  of  an  element  of  the  Intelligence Community  may  set  a  priority,  “to  the  extent feasible”  in 
accordance with the criteria set by the same section 2(b)(iii)(A)(1)-(3), which includes the requirement 
for  appropriate  consideration  for  the  privacy  and  civil  liberties  of  all  persons,  but  without  the 
involvement of the CLPO. 

118.  The EO 14086 in addition underlines  that 'signals intelligence collection activities shall  be as tailored 
as  feasible'  to  advance a validated intelligence  priority, and  that 'the Intelligence  Community  shall 
consider the availability, feasibility, and appropriateness of other less intrusive sources' and provides 
general necessity and proportionality requirements132.  

119.  Furthermore,  according  to  Section  5(h),  EO  14086  creates  an  entitlement  to  submit  qualifying 
complaints to the CLPO and to obtain review of the CLPO’s decisions  by the Data Protection Review 
Court in accordance with the redress mechanism established in section 3 of that Order. 

120.  The text of FISA  appears to be  clearer and more  precise than EO 12333 on  the kind  of intelligence 
operations that can be mandated.  FISA and EO 12333 now have to be applied in the light of EO 14086 
and in particular taking into account inter alia the principles of necessity and proportionality.  

121.  The requirements laid down in  the EO 14086 must be further implemented through agency policies 
and procedures that transpose them into concrete directions for day-to-day operations. In this respect, 
EO 14086  provides  U.S. intelligence agencies with a maximum  of  one year to  update their existing 
policies and procedures (i.e. by 7 October 2023) to bring them in line with the EO’s requirements. Such 
updated policies and procedures have to be developed in consultation with the Attorney General, the 

                                                             
127 See EO 14086, Section 2(b)(ii)(A)(2). 
128 See EO 14086, Section 2(b)(i)(B).  
129 See Draft Decision, recital 129. 
130 See EO 14086, section 2(b)(iii)(B). 
131 See EO 14086, Section 4, (n) 
132 See EO 14086, Section 2(c)(i) (A) and (B). 

Adopted 

 

30 

 

CLPO and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) and be made publicly available to the 
maximum extent possible133.   

122.  The EDPB would welcome that not only the entry into force but also the adoption of the decision  are 
conditional upon  inter alia the adoption of updated policies and procedures to implement EO 14086 
by  all  US  intelligence  agencies. The  EDPB recommends  the  Commission  to  assess  these  updated 
policies and procedures and share this assessment with the EDPB. 

123.  Finally,  in  relation  to  the  retention  of  the  transferred  data  once  collected  for  national  security 
purposes, the EDPB notes that the EO 14086 ensures that the rules applicable to personal data of US 
persons  are also applicable to non-US  persons’  personal data134. From the Draft Decision, it appears 
that these rules  are provided  for in  section  309 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal  Year 
2015135,  which  establishes  a  maximum  retention  period  of  5  years  in  principle  of  any  non-public 
telephone  or  electronic  communication  acquired  without  the  consent  of  the  person.  The  EDPB 
recommends  in  this  regard that the  Commission  provide  more  clarity as  to  its  assessment  of  the 
retention rules applicable to personal data of US persons in the decision. 

3.2.2  Guarantee B - Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate  objectives 

pursued need to be demonstrated 

3.2.2.1  Horizontal safeguards provided by the new Executive Order 14086 – Necessity and 

proportionality 

124.  The new EO 14086 which generally replaces PPD-28, aims at providing rules to enhance safeguards for 
United States Signals Intelligence Activities, to be further implemented by the Intelligence Community 
elements in their internal policies and procedures. 

125.  EO 14086 introduces  two new requirements under US law which echo the requirements recalled by 
the CJEU in its Schrems II judgment, namely that signals intelligence activities shall be conducted only 
as far as necessary to advance a validated intelligence priority collection and only to the extent and in 
a manner that is proportionate to the validated intelligence priority136. 

126.  It is the understanding of the EDPB that these elements have been included to reflect the principles of 
necessity and proportionality foreseen under EU law and in the CJEU and ECHR case-law which aim at 
ensuring  that  collection  and  processing  of  data  should  be  limited  to  what  is  necessary  and 
proportionate. 

127.  In this regard the EDPB recalls the process foreseen for the validation of intelligence priorities as well 

as the possible  derogation (see paragraphs 116, 117).  

128.  Furthermore, the EDPB notes that these principles of necessity and proportionality provided in the EO 
will have to be operationalized and implemented, within one year, in the policies and procedures of 
each element of the Intelligence Community137. 

                                                             
133 See EO 14086, Section 2(c)(iv)(B) and (C). 
134 Draft Decision, recital 150. 
135 Draft Decision, footnote 272. 
136 See EO 14086, Section 2, (a), (ii), A and B. 
137 See EO 14086, Section 2, (c), (iv), B 

Adopted 

 

31 

 

3.2.2.2  Specific safeguards for the collection of signals intelligence 

129.  The EDPB also notes that EO 14086 provides for limitations regarding the objectives for which personal 

data can and cannot be collected, in the context of collection of signals intelligence 138. 

130.  The  EDPB welcomes  that  the  EO  provides  that  targeted  collection  should  be  prioritized  over  bulk 
collection139.  In  the  context  of  collection  of  signals  intelligence,  the  EO  provides  for  a  list  of  12 
objectives  for which  data can be collected, which  have to be further substantiated into intelligence 
priorities (see paragraph 117), as well as a list of 5 objectives for which signals intelligence collection 
activities shall not be conducted140. In principle these provisions  constitute a guarantee to ensure the 
necessity of the collection of data.  

131.  Yet, the EDPB recalls that EO 14086, also provides for the possibility for the President of the United 

States to add other objectives to the list (see paragraphs 114, 115). 141 

3.2.2.3  Specific safeguards for bulk collection 

132.  The CJEU underlined in its Schrems I judgment that the “protection of the fundamental right to respect 
for private life at EU level requires derogations and limitations in relation to the protection of personal 
data to apply only in so far as is strictly necessary”142 and ruled that “legislation permitting the public 
authorities to have access on a generalised basis to the content of electronic communications must be 
regarded  as  compromising  the  essence  of  the  fundamental  right  to  respect  for  private  life,  as 
guaranteed by Article 7 of the Charter”. 

133.  In the Schrems  II case143, with regards to its  analysis  of  bulk  collection  in relation to  the correlated 
reading of EO 12 333 and PPD-28, and in particular points  183 to 185, the Court stressed, as recalled 
above,  that  the  possibility  of  bulk  collection,  « which  allows,  in  the  context  of  the  surveillance 
programmes based  on E.O. 12333, access to data in transit to the United States without that access 
being subject to any judicial  review, does not, in any event, delimit in a sufficiently clear and precise 
manner the scope of such bulk collection of personal data. ».  

134.  The EDPB thus notes that the CJEU did not exclude, by principle, bulk collection, but considered in its 
Schrems II decision  that for such  bulk  collection to take place lawfully, sufficiently  clear and precise 
limits must be in place to delimit the scope of such bulk collection. 

135.  The EDPB also recognizes that while replacing the PPD-28, the EO 14086 provides  for new safeguards 
and limits to the collection and use of data collected outside the U.S., as the limitations of FISA or other 
more specific U.S. laws do not apply.  

136.  With  regards to  bulk  collection  of  data, the EDPB takes note  that the EO  14086 provides  that bulk 
collection continues to be permitted. Indeed, the EDPB underlines that the definition of bulk collection 
remains  the  same  as  in  the  previous  PPD-28:  “signals  intelligence  collected  in  ‘bulk’  means  the 
authorised  collection  of  large  quantities  of  signals  intelligence  data  which,  due  to  technical  or 

                                                             
138 See EO 14086, section 2, (b), (i), A, 1 to 12 
139 See EO 14086, section 2, (c), (ii), A 
140 See EO 14086, section 2, (b), (ii), A, 1 to 5 
141 See EO 14086, section 2, (b), (i), B 
142 CJEU Schrems I judgment, para 92. 
143 See CJEU Schrems II judgment.  

Adopted 

 

32 

 

operational considerations, is acquired without the use of discriminants (for example, without the use 
of specific identifiers or selection terms.)”144.  

137.  Since the Schrems II ruling, the Court did not detail precisely the safeguards required for bulk collection 
to take place. However, the EDPB recalls that the ECHR has issued important decisions concerning bulk 
collection and the relevant safeguards in this context.  

138.  The EDPB recalls that bulk collection, by allowing for the collection of large quantities of data without 
discriminant  presents  higher  risks  for  the  individuals145  than targeted collection  and  thus  requires 
additional safeguards to be adduced.  

139.  The EDPB also notes that the CJEU has developed further case law concerning retention of traffic and 
location  data,  and  subsequent  access  to  these  data  retained  by  telecommunications  operators, 
including for national security purposes, which, although they cannot be deemed directly applicable in 
this  context, to  some  extent  could  be  relevant  in  the  context  of  the  present  assessment  of  bulk 
collection in the context of EO 12333. 

1)  Purpose limitation  

140.  The  EO  provides  that bulk  collection  should  take  place  only  following  a  determination  that  « the 
information necessary to advance a validated intelligence priority cannot reasonably be obtained by 
targeted collection »146, and that « the element of the Intelligence Community shall  apply reasonable 
methods  and  technical  measures  in  order  to limit  the data  collected  to  only  what  is  necessary  to 
advance  a  validated 
intelligence  priority,  while  minimizing  the  collection  of  non-pertinent 
information »147.  In  addition  to  these  safeguards,  the  EDPB also  recognizes  that  the  use  of  data 
collected in bulk shall be used in pursuit of one or more of the six objectives listed148. The EDPB further 
stresses that while these objectives are more detailed than those which were provided in the previous 
PPD-28, generally replaced by EO 14086, the scale of such collection possibilities remains  potentially 
broad, i.e. encompassing large volumes of data. 

141.  The EDPB here as well recalls that EO 14086, also provides for the possibility  for the President of the 

United States to add other objectives to the list (see paragraph 115)149. 

2)  Prior independent authorisation 

142.  The  EDPB  stresses  that  the  ECtHR  dedicates  a  significant  importance  to  prior  independent 
authorization in the context of bulk collection of data for national security purposes. Indeed the Court 
ruled in particular that “in order to minimise the risk of the bulk interception power being abused, the 
Court considers  that the process must  be subject to “end-to-end safeguards”,  meaning that, at  the 
domestic  level, an  assessment  should  be  made  at  each  stage  of  the process  of  the  necessity  and 
proportionality of the measures being taken; that bulk interception should be subject to independent 

                                                             
144 See EO 14086, Section 4, (b) 
145 See for instance ECtHR (Grand Chamber), Big Brother Watch and others v. The United Kingdom, 25 May 2021 
(hereinafter, ‘ECtHR Big  Brother Watch judgment’),  recital 363, where the  Court  indicates that it “is  not 
persuaded that the  acquisition of related communications data through bulk interception is necessarily less 
intrusive than the acquisition of content”. 
146 EO 14086, Section 2(c)(ii)(A).  
147 EO 14086, Section 2(c)(ii)(A).  
148 EO 14086, Section 2(c)(ii)(B).  
149 See EO 14086, Section 2(c)(ii)(C).  

Adopted 

 

33 

 

authorisation at the outset, when the object and scope of the operation are being defined; and that the 
operation should be subject to supervision and independent ex post facto review. In the Court’s view, 
these  are  fundamental  safeguards  which  will  be  the  cornerstone of  any  Article  8  compliant  bulk 
interception regime.“150 

143.  The EDPB also notes the following paragraph of this judgment in Grand Chamber, where the Strasbourg 
Court  further  highlights  that  it  “agrees  with  the  Chamber  that  while  judicial  authorisation  is  an 
“important safeguard against arbitrariness” it is not a “necessary requirement” (see paragraphs 318-
320 of the Chamber judgment). Nevertheless, bulk interception should be authorised by an independent 
body; that is, a body which is independent of the executive“151. 

144.  In this context, the EDPB notes that the EO does not provide for such independent prior authorization 
for  bulk  collection, and  that this  is  not  foreseen  as well under  EO  12333 (see  section below  on  EO 
12333). 

3)  Retention rules 

145.  The  EDPB  recalls  that  another  important  set  of  safeguards  are  the  rules  for  the  duration  of  the 
collection and retention of data. In this respect, the ECtHR stressed that “domestic law should set out 
a limit on the duration of interception, the procedure to be followed for examining, using and storing 
the data obtained, the precautions to be taken when communicating the data to other parties, and the 
circumstances in which intercepted data may or must be erased or destroyed”152 as these safeguards 
“are equally relevant to bulk interception.”153 

146.  In  this  regard, it  is  the  understanding  of  the  EDPB that the  EO  provides  for  rules  concerning  the 
retention of data for personal data collected through signals intelligence, including in bulk154. The EDPB 
notes that, according to Section 2(c)(iii)(A)  of EO 14086, each element of the Intelligence Community 
that  handles  personal  information  collected  through  signals  intelligence  shall  establish  and  apply 
policies and procedures designed to minimize the dissemination and retention of personal information 
collected through  signals  intelligence. However, these  rules  do  not  provide  for  a specific  retention 
period but rather refer in general to the same applicable rules for the retention of data concerning US 
persons  and to situations  where no final  retention determination has  been made. The EDPB is  thus 
concerned that these retention periods, as for targeted collection (see paragraph 122), are not clearly 
defined  in  this  EO  with  regards to  data  collected  in  bulk.  It  calls  on  the  Commission  to  share  its 
assessment on the necessity and proportionality of the retention periods applicable to US persons and 
the  available  information  concerning  retention  periods  in  practice  where  no  final  retention 
determination has been made under US law, as in its current state, the Draft Decision merely recalls 
this general rule in  a single short  paragraph155 and a footnote156 which does  not allow to determine 
whether these retention periods  are necessary and proportionate. Since, as underlined by the ECtHR, 
this  is  a crucial safeguard for  data subjects  to  be able  to exercise their rights  in a context where a 
particularly intrusive  measure is  taken to collect  their data in  the first  place, the EDPB  calls on  the 

                                                             
150 See ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, para. 350.   
151 See ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, para. 351.  
152 See ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, para. 348.  
153 See ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, para. 348.  
154 See EO 14086, section 2, (c), (iii), A, (2)(a)-(c).  
155 See Draft Decision, para. 150.  
156 See Draft Decision, footnote 271.  

Adopted 

 

34 

 

European Commission  to provide  further clarifications concerning the different retention periods  in 
practice.  

4)  Safeguards concerning “dissemination” 

147.  Also, the EDPB recalls that to ensure the effectivity of necessity and proportionality and the purpose 
limitation principle, the ECtHR also recognized the importance of rules provided by law concerning the 
further dissemination of the data collected, including in context of bulk  collection157. 

148.  Section  2(c)(iii)(A)(1)(c)  of  EO  14086  provides  that  information  about  non-U.S.  persons  that  was 
collected  through  signals  intelligence  activities  may  only  be  disseminated  if  an  authorized  and 
appropriately  trained  individual  has  a  reasonable  belief  that  the  personal  information  will  be 
appropriately protected and that the recipient has a need to know the information.  

149.  Taking this into account, the EDPB understands  that the provisions  concerning dissemination  under 
the EO 14086 do not provide  neither for an express prohibition  of dissemination  for other purposes 
than national security purposes when dissemination to US competent authorities is concerned158. The 
EDPB calls on the Commission  to further clarify the applicable rules and safeguards in this case. 

150.  The  EDPB  is  therefore  concerned  that  data  acquired  by  the  competent  Intelligence  Community 
authorities could  then be  disseminated  to  US competent authorities  for  the purpose  of  combating 
crime,  including  serious  crimes,  in  the  context  of  criminal  investigations,  thereby  providing  law 
enforcement authorities, without any further specific restrictions, with a possibility  to obtain data that 
they would have been prohibited from collecting directly and calls on the Commission to further assess 
this point. 

151.  In  the  specific  context of  onward  transfers  (dissemination  to  recipients  outside  the  United  States 
Government, including to a foreign government or international organization159), the EDPB recalls that 
it is of the view that the protection afforded to data should also be maintained in the context of onward 
transfers including in the field of national security160.  

152.  In this respect, the EO provides  for some safeguards, namely the requirement to take due account of 
the  purpose  of  the  dissemination  –  although  without  expressly  requiring  that  the  purpose  of 
dissemination should  also be for the protection of national security – the nature and the extent of the 
personal information being disseminated and the potential harmful impact on the person or persons 
concerned before disseminating the data. 

153.  While the EDPB acknowledges that some of these safeguards, in particular the account to be given to 
the “potential for harmful impact”161 on the data subject(s)  concerned, reflect some requirements of 
the  ECHR, it  also  stresses  that  the  Strasbourg  Court  furthermore  requires  that  a  legally  binding 
obligation “to analyse and determine whether the foreign recipient of intelligence offers an acceptable 
minimum level of safeguards”162, which the EDPB does not expressly find  in the provisions  of the EO 

                                                             
157 See ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, para. 348.  
158 See EO 14086, Sec 2.(c)(iii)(A)(1).  
159 See EO 14086, Sec 2.(c)(iii)(A)(1), (d) in particular.  
160 See for instance EDPB Opinion 14/2021 regarding the European Commission Draft Implementing Decision 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the adequate protection of personal d ata in the United Kingdom. 
Adopted on 13 April 2021, sections 4.3.2.1 and 4.3.2.2.  
161 See EO 14086, Sec 2.(c)(iii)(A)(1), (d)  
162 See ECtHR (Grand Chamber), Case of Centrum För Rättvisa V. Sweden, 25 May 2021, para 326.  

Adopted 

 

35 

 

relating to dissemination to foreign recipients. The EDPB invites therefore the Commission  to further 
assess this element. 

154.  The  EDPB  also  notes  that  the  European  Commission  did  not  consider,  as  part  of  its  adequacy 
assessment, the existence of international agreements concluded with third countries or international 
organisations that may provide for specific  provisions  for the international transfer of  personal data 
by  intelligence  services  to  third  countries.  The  EDPB considers  that  the  conclusion  of  bilateral  or 
multilateral agreements with third countries for the purposes  of intelligence cooperation are likely to 
affect the data protection legal framework as assessed.   

155.  The EDPB therefore invites the European Commission  to clarify whether such agreements exist, under 
which  conditions  they  may  be  concluded  and  assess  whether  the  provisions  of  international 
agreements may affect the level of protection afforded to personal data transferred from the EEA by 
the legislative framework and practices in relation to onward transfers for national security purposes. 

5)  Temporary bulk collection to support the initial technical phase of targeted collection 

156.  The EDPB recalls that, in the context of the last Joint Review of the Privacy Shield, discussions  mainly 
focused  on  the interpretation and application  of the additional  ground (situation/scenario)  for bulk 
collection foreseen by the first sentence of footnote 5 of Section 2 PPD28-, which provided that “The 
limitations  contained  in  this  section  do  not  apply  to  signals  intelligence data  that  is  temporarily 
acquired to facilitate targeted collection.” The U.S. authorities explained at the time the meaning of 
“signals  intelligence  data  that  is  temporarily acquired  to  facilitate  targeted collection”. The  EDPB 
understood  from these discussions  that this footnote meant that data may be collected in bulk  - and 
regardless  of  the  six  purposes  foreseen  -  if  collected  temporarily,  with  a  view  to  establishing  an 
identifier for a defined target. This would thus be an additional ground to collect data in bulk, and in 
this case only the general principles of Section 1 of PPD-28 would have still applied. As recalled above, 
in the Schrems II ruling, the CJEU considered that the combined EO 12333 and PPD-28 with regards to 
bulk  collection  did  not  “delimit  in  a  sufficiently  clear  and  precise  manner  the scope  of  such  bulk 
collection of personal data”163.   

157.  The EDPB notes that a derogation allowing for such kind of bulk collection is still provided in  the EO 
14086164; however, the EDPB welcomes that this derogation has been narrowed compared to PPD-28 
and additional safeguards are provided under the EO 14086.  

158.  The EDPB understands that the new EO 14086 provides  for safeguards which remain applicable in the 
context  of  this  type  of  temporary  technical  bulk  collection,  in  particular the  general principles  of 
necessity and proportionality in relation to the validated intelligence priority when data are acquired 
without  discriminants  before  targeted collection  takes  place  (Section  2(a)-(b),  Section  2(c)(i)  EO 
14086). It is  also  the understanding  of  the EDPB that such  bulk  collection  supporting  a subsequent 
targeted signals  intelligence  collection  is  also  subject  to  the  additional  safeguards  provided  from 
subsection (2)(c)(iii)  onwards165. 

159.  However,  the  EDPB  also  recalls  –  see  above  paragraph  117  –  that  the  definition  of  “validated 
intelligence priority” provides  for  a derogatory procedure which  would  not involve  the CLPO of  the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence.  

                                                             
163 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 183.  
164 See EO 14086, section 2 (c), (ii), D and Draft Decision, footnote 226.  
165 See previous sections for further elements on these provisions. 

Adopted 

 

36 

 

160.  However, the EDPB still notes that the safeguards of the subsection  concerning bulk collection do not 
apply  to  temporary  bulk  collection  used  to  support  the  initial  technical  phase  of  targeted signals 
intelligence collection activity as outlined in Section 2(c)(ii)(D) of EO 14086, which notably means that 
in this context data collected in bulk can be used for other purposes than those listed under subsection 
2 (c)(ii). The EDPB would welcome clarifications in the Draft Decision on the purposes  for which data 
collected in bulk in this context can be used as well as concerning the application of the limitations set 
out under  subsection  2(c)(i)  for the collection  of signals  intelligence in general (namely  only  for the 
legitimate objectives listed there) in the context of temporary bulk collection in the Draft Decision. 

161.  To  conclude,  the  EDPB also  stresses  that this  derogation for  temporary bulk  collection  in  view  of 
targeted collection and  the remaining safeguards to be  applied remains  unclear, in  particular as to 
which  safeguards  of  the  EO  14086  would  apply  to  which  stage  (bulk  collection,  further  targeted 
collection) and calls on the Commission to further assess these elements, and assess these aspects also 
in practice in the future joint reviews.  

162.  Furthermore, although the EDPB also further regrets that even if the notion of “temporarily” has been 
slightly  more detailed in the EO than in  the PPD-28, in  the EDPB’s understanding, it still  appears to 
mean that as long as the target has not been identified, bulk collection could continue. In this regard, 
the  EDPB recalls  the  necessity  to  have  clear and  precise  rules  and  stresses  here  as  well  the  key 
safeguard that these rules constitute for data subjects. 

163.  In conclusion,  concerning the safeguards applicable to bulk  collection, the EDPB remains concerned 
that, despite additional safeguards provided under EO 14086, the possibility  to collect data in bulk, i.e. 
without discriminants, is still  provided, without key safeguards such as prior  authorisation to collect 
these data - including in the derogatory situation of temporary technical bulk collection  -, also taking 
into account the need  for further clarifications and  the concerns  expressed regarding strict purpose 
limitation to access the data subsequently, clear and strict data retention rules and stricter safeguards 
concerning dissemination of data collected in bulk, including in the context of onward transfers.  

164.  In general, the EDPB stresses that the above-mentioned  decision  of the ECtHR, once again show the 
importance  of  comprehensive  supervision  by  independent  supervisory  authorities.  The  EDPB 
emphasizes that independent oversight at all stages of the process of government access for national 
security purposes  is an important safeguard against arbitrary surveillance measures and thus for the 
assessment of an adequate level of data protection. The guarantee of independence of the supervisory 
authorities within the meaning of Article 8(3) of the Charter is intended to ensure effective and reliable 
monitoring of compliance with the rules on the protection of individuals  with regard to the processing 
of  personal  data. This  applies  in  particular  in  circumstances  where,  due  to  the  nature  of  secret 
surveillance, the individual  is prevented from seeking review or from taking a direct part in any review 
proceedings prior or during the execution of the surveillance measure.  

165.  The  EDPB  recalls  that  it  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  assessment  of  adequacy  depends  on  all  the 
circumstances of the case, in particular on the effectiveness of ex post oversight and legal redress as 
provided for in the legal framework. 

3.2.2.4 

Legal framework organizing specific collection for national security purposes by the IC 
elements within and outside the U.S. territory 

166.  In its Schrems II ruling, the CJEU stressed, in relation to Section 702 FISA that this text “does not indicate 
any  limitations  on  the power it  confers to  implement surveillance  programmes for  the purposes  of 
foreign intelligence or the existence of guarantees for non-US  persons potentially targeted by those 

Adopted 

 

37 

 

programmes”166. It led  the  Court  to  consider  that “in  those  circumstances (…), that  article cannot 
ensure a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed by the Charter (…), according to 
which a legal  basis  which permits interference with fundamental rights must, in order to satisfy  the 
requirements of the principle of proportionality, itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise 
of the right concerned and lay down clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the 
measure in question and imposing minimum safeguards”167. 

167.  In relation to EO 12333, the Court noted that it “does not confer rights which are enforceable against 
the  US  authorities  in  the  courts”168  and  also  concluded  that  “in  the  context  of  the  surveillance 
programmes based  on E.O. 12333, access to data in transit to the United States without that access 
being subject to any judicial  review, does not, in any event, delimit in a sufficiently clear and precise 
manner the scope of such bulk collection of personal data”169, following the analysis  of the conditions 
under which bulk collection could take place under this order, in conjunction with PPD-28. 

168.  With respect to these specific data collection regimes, EO 14086 now provides  for new rules. 

3.2.2.4.1  Collection of data for national security purposes under Section 702 

169.  The EDPB recalls that the findings on FISA 702170 that “in practice, ‘non-U.S. persons’ also benefit from 
the access and retention restrictions required by the different agencies’ minimisation and/or targeting 
procedures due to the cost and difficulty of identifying and removing U.S person information for a large 
body of data means that typically the entire data set is handled in compliance with the higher U.S data 
standards” were welcomed in the PCLOB last report.  

170.  According to those findings, “the programme does not operate by collecting communications in bulk”. 
The  2014  and  2021  Statistical  Transparency  Reports  issued  by  the  ODNI  confirmed  this  finding. 
Additionally, according to PCLOB report, “tasked selectors”, such as an e-mail address or a telephone 
number, are used to target the surveillance.  

171.  Yet, the EDPB also recalls that, at the same time, in the context of Section 702, it was clarified during 
the last Review of the Privacy Shield that a “person” to be identified as a target could refer to several 
individuals using the same identifier, provided that all these individuals  would be non-U.S. persons and 
fulfill the applicable criteria for being targeted. Also the EDPB recalls that during the Third Annual Joint 
Review of the Privacy Shield in 2019 further clarification in the context of the UPSTREAM program was 
called upon  to exclude that massive  and indiscriminate  access to personal  data of  non-U.S. persons 
take place171. 

172.  Moreover, the EDPB recalls that the fact that the collection under section 702 FISA is justified by  “a 
significant  purpose of  the acquisition  is  to obtain foreign  intelligence information” still  leaves some 
uncertainty regarding its purpose limitation and necessity. The EDPB notes however that according to 
EO 14086, section  2(a)(A) and  (B), signals  intelligence activities shall  be conducted  only  following  a 
determination that the activities are necessary to advance a validated priority and only to the extent 
and in  a manner that is  proportionate to such  priority  and that it shall  be as tailored as feasible  to 
advance the validated priority, taking due account of relevant factors such as the intrusiveness  of the 

                                                             
166 See CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para 180.  
167 See CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para 180.  
168 See CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para 182.  
169 See CJEU Schrems II Judgment, para 183.  
170 See PCLOB Report on the Surveillance program operated pursuant of Section 702 FISA, page 100. 
171 See Third Joint Review report, page 17, para 83. 

Adopted 

 

38 

 

collection, the sensitivity of the data, not disproportionally impact privacy and civil liberties. The EDPB 
yet expects further clarifications as to how this will be concretely implemented and operationalized, 
including in the context of the application of FISA Section 702.   

173.  In  this  regard, in  the absence  of  direct  access to  this  information  by  itself, the  EDPB called  for  an 
independent assessment on the necessity and proportionality of the definition of “targets” and of the 
concept of “foreign intelligence” under  section 702 FISA (including  in  the context of the UPSTREAM 
program) following  its  renewal. The  EDPB considers  that its  previous  call  for  further  independent 
assessment of the process of application of selectors in specific cases (“tasking of selectors”) as well as 
for further clarification in  the context of  the UPSTREAM program is  relevant. Therefore, taking into 
account  the  new  EO  14086, the  EDPB calls  for  additional  information  in  order  to  also  assess  and 
monitor how and to which extent the newly introduced principles of necessity and proportionality will 
be applied in practice in this context and expects that this will also be assessed in the context of future 
joint reviews. 

174.  The EDPB welcomes that the fully functional Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB), as an 
independent  oversight  agency,  has  decided  to  conduct  “an  Oversight  Project  to  examine  the 
surveillance  program  that the  Executive  Branch  operates  pursuant  to  Section  702  of  the  Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), in anticipation of the December 2023 sunset date for Section 702 
and  the upcoming  public  and  Congressional  consideration  of  its  reauthorization” 172. The EDPB also 
welcomes that the “review covers selected focus areas for investigation, including but not necessarily 
limited to, U.S. Person queries of information collected under Section 702, and ‘Upstream’ collection 
conducted pursuant to Section 702”173 and “also includes reviewing the program’s past and projected 
value and  efficacy, as well  as the adequacy of  existing privacy  and civil  liberties  safeguards”174. The 
EDPB consequently stresses that access to the findings of the PCLOB in this report on section 702 would 
be necessary to adequately and comprehensively  assess the privacy safeguards provided and applied 
in the context of this surveillance program.  

175.  Taking into account the new EO 14086, the EDPB additionally calls for additional information in order 
to also assess and monitor how and to which extent the newly introduced principles of necessity and 
proportionality, as well as the other safeguards provided in this text will be applied in practice in this 
context. 

3.2.2.4.2  Collection of data for national security purposes under Executive Order 12333 

176.  As recognized by the CJEU in its Schrems II ruling, the analysis of the laws of the third country for which 
adequacy is considered, should not be limited to the laws and practices allowing for surveillance within 
that country’s physical borders, but should  also include  an analysis  of the legal grounds in that third 
country’s  law  which  allow  it  to  conduct  surveillance  outside  its  territory  as  far  as  EU  data  are 
concerned. Necessary limitations to governmental access to data should  extend to personal data “in 
transit” to the country, for which adequacy is recognized.  

177.  The EDPB welcomes the general public report issued by the PCLOB on the Executive Order 12333 and 
released in April 2021, but notes that this report remains general as most of the findings are classified.  

                                                             
172 See the NOTICE OF THE PCLOB OVERSIGHT PROJECT EXAMINING SECTION 702 OF THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE 
SURVEILLANCE ACT (FISA) 
173 See above. 
174 See above.  

Adopted 

 

39 

 

178.  In this  context, once  again, given  the uncertainty and  lack  of  clarity on  how  EO 12333  used  to  be 
applied, and the importance of clarifying how it will be applied in light of the new EO 14086, the EDPB 
stresses the importance of the awaited PCLOB’s reports on this text 175. However, it understands  that 
most  of  their content  is  likely  to  remain classified,  so  that no  further information  on  the  concrete 
operation of EO 12333 and on its necessity and proportionality would become available neither to the 
public, nor to the EDPB.  

179.  The EDPB therefore would particularly welcome the report of the PCLOB on the application of the EO 
14086 not being classified but fully accessible once it is completed, including on the parts which would 
assess how the EO 14086’s safeguards will be applied to collection of data under EO 12333. The EDPB 
also invites the Commission  to be specifically attentive to this point in the context of the future joint 
reviews. 

180.  In general, with regards to the different legal instruments providing for the possibility  to collect and 
further access and process data for  U.S. Intelligence agencies in the U.S. legal framework, the EDPB 
would welcome clarifications as to their interplay with the new EO 14086 and expects assurances that 
the  previous  concerns  expressed  in  the  previous  opinions  of  the  EDPB  in  their  regards  would  be 
resolved by the adoption of these new safeguards.  

181.  The EDPB also calls on the Commission  to be specifically  attentive to these aspects in the context of 

future joint reviews. 

 

3.2.2.4.3  PCLOB report 

182.  The EDPB welcomes  that EO  14086 also  provides  for  the requirement for  the PCLOB  to produce  a 
report concerning the implementation of the EO. The EDPB stresses that this report should include an 
assessment  of this  specific possibility  provided  by  the EO to collect data, for the purposes  listed  for 
targeted collection, as well as in bulk, including  for technical reasons, in order to better understand 
the key  terms of the EO 14086 and how they are practically understood and applied in the different 
surveillance programs. This report would also be necessary to assess how the EO will be implemented 
in the internal procedures and policies of the IC elements.  

3.2.3  Guarantee C - Oversight 

3.2.3.1 

Introduction 

183.  The U.S. intelligence activities are subject to a multi-layered oversight process. The oversight structure 
in the U.S. can be divided in internal and external oversight. All intelligence community elements have 
oversight and compliance officials, which conduct periodic  oversight of  signals intelligence activities, 
including  Privacy  and Civil  Liberties Officers  and  Inspectors General. In addition, there are external 
oversight bodies,  such as the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) and the Intelligence 
Oversight Board.  

184.  The EDPB recalls that an interference takes place at the time of collection of the data, but also at the 
time the data is accessed by a public authority for further processing. The ECtHR has specified multiple 
                                                             
175 The general report on EO 12333 has remained mostly classified - only a short public version has been made 
public, as well as the report and Recommendations on CIA Counterterrorism Activities Conducted Pursuant to 
E.O. 12333, as well only partly declassified. 

Adopted 

 

40 

 

times  that any  interference with  the  right to  privacy  and  data  protection  should  be  subject  to  an 
effective, independent and impartial oversight system that must be provided  for either by a judge or 
by another independent body176 (e.g. an administrative authority or a parliamentary body).  

185.  While the ECtHR has expressed its preference for a judge to be responsible  to maintain oversight, it 
did  not  exclude  that another body  may  be  responsible,  “provided that the  authority  is  sufficiently 
independent from the executive”177 and “of the authorities carrying out the surveillance, and [is] vested 
with sufficient powers and competence to exercise an effective and continuous control”.178 

186.  The  ECtHR  added  that “the  manner  of  appointment  and  the  legal  status  of  the  members  of  the 

supervisory body”179 need to be taken into account when assessing independence. 

187.  The ECtHR also stated, that it  is  to examine, whether the supervisory  body’s  activities are open  to 
public  scrutiny. For example, this  could be accomplished,  where the supervision  reports annually to 
the  government, respectively  the  public  reports  are laid  before  Parliament  and  were  discussed  by 
Parliament.180 

188.  The  independent  oversight  over  the  implementation  of  surveillance  measures  was  also  taken  into 
account by the CJEU in  the Schrems II judgment as that “[...] the supervisory role of the FISC is thus 
designed to verify whether those surveillance programmes relate to the objective of acquiring foreign 
intelligence information, but it does not cover the issue  of whether ‘individuals are properly targeted 
to acquire foreign intelligence information’.”181 

3.2.3.2 

Internal Oversight 

3.2.3.2.1 

Inspectors General 

189.  The EDPB recognises that the Inspectors General are entrusted with a wide range of authorisations, 
necessary to monitor the intelligence activities. In particular, the Inspectors General have access to all 
information necessary  to assess  overall compliance of  the work  of the agencies with the legislation, 
including but not limited to the laws related to privacy and data protection and can issue subpoenas 
as well as take an oath from any person in relation to investigation of the Inspectors General.  

190.  Based  on  the  above,  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  Inspectors  General  generally  have  extensive 
investigatory powers. However, they do  not have any binding  remedial powers and  only  issue  non-
binding recommendations182. 

191.  The EDPB recognizes that in principle the Inspectors General shall not be prevented or prohibited from 
initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation, or from issuing any subpoena during 
the  course  of  any  audit  or  investigations. 183  In  this  context,  the  EDPB  notes,  however,  that  the 

                                                             
176  ECtHR,  Case of  Klass and Others v. Germany, 6 September 1978 (hereinafter, ‘ECtHR Klass  judgment’), 
paragraphs 17, 51.  
177  ECtHR  Zakharov judgment, paragraph 258; ECtHR, Iordachi and Others v. Moldova, 10 February 2009, 
paragraphs 40 and  51; ECtHR, Dumitru Popescu v. Romania, 26 April 2007, paragraphs 70-73. 
178 ECtHR Klass judgment, paragraph 56.    
179 ECtHR Zakharov judgment, paragraph 278.  
180 ECtHR Zakharov judgment, paragraph 283;  ECtHR, L. v. Norway, 9 June 1990; ECtHR, Kennedy v. the United 
Kingdom, 18 May 2010, paragraph 166. 
181 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 179.  
182 Draft Decision, recital 105. 
183 Inspector General Act of 1978, § 3 (a).  

Adopted 

 

41 

 

Inspectors  General  are  under  the  authority,  direction  and  control  of  the  respective  head  of 
department, who  may prohibit  them  from  access to information,  undertaking an investigation  and 
among others from issuing any subpoena in cases where the head of department determines that such 
a prohibition  is  necessary to  preserve  national interests. However, the  head of  department has  to 
inform the responsible  committees of the U.S. Congress of the exercise of this authority. 184 

192.  The EDPB notes that Inspectors General can only be removed by the U.S. President, who must inform 

to Congress the reasons for such a removal.  

193.  The EDPB notes that there have not been significant amendments to the internal oversight mechanism 
since the opinions  of the WP 29 and then the EDPB. Therefore, the EDPB follows, in line with the WP 
29 Opinion 01/2016185 that in general sufficient internal oversight mechanisms are in place.  

3.2.3.3  External Oversight 

194.  The  EDPB notes  that  besides  the  bodies  mentioned  below,  various  other  bodies  within  the  U.S. 
government oversee the activities of the U.S. intelligence agencies such as the Intelligence Oversight 
Board (IOB) or the Congressional  committees. The latter can carry out their own investigations and 
reports. 

3.2.3.3.1  Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB)   

195.  The  EDPB recognises  the  comprehensive  supervision  role  of  the PCLOB  regarding the  new  redress 

mechanism and the implementation of the EO 14086.  

196.  Firstly, its new functions contain consultation with the Attorney General regarding the appointment of 
the judges of the DPRC and the special advocates. Secondly, the PCLOB will review the redress process 
annually, i.e. the processing of qualifying complaints by the redress mechanism. This includes whether 
the CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court processed  qualifying complaints in a timely manner, 
are obtaining full access to necessary information and operating consistent with the EO 14086 as well 
as the Intelligence Community’s compliance with the determinations made by the CLPO and the DPRC. 

197.  Furthermore, the PCLOB must be consulted  while intelligence agencies update their internal policies 
and  procedures  to implement  the EO  14086. In addition,  the PCLOB  will  carry out a  review of  the 
updated policies and procedures and assess their compliance with the EO 14086. 186 While the findings 
of the PCLOB are not binding stricto sensu, the head of each element of the Intelligence Community is 
obliged to carefully consider and implement or otherwise address all recommendations contained in 
any such  review, consistent  with applicable law187. The  EDPB invites the Commission  to pay special 
attention to whether and how the PCLOB's recommendations have been implemented at agency level 
in future reviews, if the Draft Decision is adopted. 

198.  The EDPB recalls that the PCLOB, as it is independent, is “encouraged“ to carry out but not obliged to 
review, if the safeguards constituted in EO 14086 are properly considered and whether the Intelligence 
Community  fully  complied  with  the  requirements  of  the  redress  process.  However,  it  is  the 

                                                             
184 See,  e.g.  Inspector General Act of 1978, §  8 (for the  Department of Defence); §  8E (for the  DOJ), §  8G 
(d)(2)(A),(B) (for the NSA); 50. U.S.C. § 403q (b) (for the CIA); Intelligence Authorization Act For Fiscal Year 2010, 
Sec 405(f) (for the Intelligence Community). 
185 WP29 Opinion 01/2016.  
186 EO 14086, Section 2(c)(iv) and Section 2(c)(v). 
187 EO 14086, Section 2(c)(v)(B). 

Adopted 

 

42 

 

understanding of the EDPB that the PCLOB has stated in its additional explanation to the EDPB as well 
as in public188 that it will take on the role foreseen in EO 14086. 

199.  Furthermore, the EDPB welcomes that the results of the PCLOBs reports are intended to be released 
to the public. Taking into account that the various bodies within the redress mechanism and t he ones 
of the Intelligence Community have in principle to implement the recommendations in the reports of 
the  PCLOB  or  otherwise  address  them,  the EDPB recognises  that  these  recommendations  play  an 
important role of privacy safeguards. 

200.  The EDPB notes that the PCLOB’s access to information is restricted, if the U.S. President authorizes 
the  conduct  of  “covert  actions“189  by  departments,  agencies  or  entities  of  the  United  States 
Government.190 

201.  Following  its  previous  opinions,  the  EDPB  considers  the  PCLOB  as  an  independent  body,  whose 
recommendations have been an important contribution to reforms in the U.S. and whose reports have 
been a particularly helpful source to understand the functioning of the various surveillance programs, 
to be an essential element of the oversight structure.  

202.  However, the EDPB regretted in its 3rd Annual  Joint Review of the former EU-U.S. Privacy Shield  that 
the PCLOB provided  the EDPB only with the same information as the general public. Furthermore, it 
was regrettable that the PCLOB did not issue further reports on PPD-28 to follow up on its first report 
in order to provide  additional elements as to how the safeguards of PPD-28 are applied, as well as a 
general updated report on Section 702 FISA. 

203.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  welcomes  the  announcement  of  the  PCLOB  towards  the  EDPB,  that  the 
publication of a follow up report on Section 702 FISA can be expected in the near future. Furthermore, 
the EDPB is satisfied that the PCLOB informed  about its commitment to allow publicity of its reports 
regarding the EO 14086. However, the EDPB recalls that the release of unclassified reports is regulated 
by U.S. law and must be coordinated with the Agencies of the Intelligence Community and cannot be 
decided by the PCLOB on its own accord.  

204.  Therefore, if the Draft Decision is adopted, the EDPB recalls that in future reviews of the EU-US data 
protection  framework,  the  EDPB  security  cleared  experts  should  be  able  to  review  additional 
documents and discuss  additional classified  elements as necessary to ensure that the information  in 
the reports can be adequately assessed, while taking into account relevant national security interests 
and applicable privacy protections. 

205.  The EDPB welcomes the PCLOB’s independence and oversight of the national intelligence community, 
which has to comply with the recommendations of the PCLOB or otherwise address it, which will be 
indicated in the report of the PCLOB to the U.S. Congress.  

                                                             
188 https://documents.pclob.gov/prod/Documents/EventsAndPress/4db0a50d-cc62-4197-af2e-
2687b14ed9b9/Trans-Atlantic%20Data%20Privacy%20Framework%20EO%20press%20release%20(FINAL).pdf 
189 According to 50 U.S.C. §3093(e)(1) the term “covert action” means an activity or activities of the United States 
Government to influence political, economic, or military conditions abroad, where it is intended that the role of 
the United States Government will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly, but does not include (1) activities 
the primary purpose of which is to acquire intelligence, traditional counterintelligence activities […]. 
190 42 U.S.C. § 2000ee (g) (5); 50 U.S. Code § 3093(a) 

Adopted 

 

43 

 

206.  Taking into account the requirements of  the ECtHR regarding public scrutiny191 that the reports of a 
supervisory  body have to be laid before and discussed  by Parliament, the EDPB considers it sufficient, 
that the PCLOB submits its reports not less than semiannually to the U.S. President and in particular to 
the  Congressional  committees  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives192,  which  are  the 
parliamentarian bodies of the U.S.  

3.2.3.3.2  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC)   

207.  The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court is responsible for the oversight of the collection of personal 
data pursuant to  Section  702 FISA193  and the  decisions  of  the FISC  can be  appealed to the  Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review (FISCR). 

208.  The  FISC  oversees  the  certification  process  for  the  collection  of  foreign  intelligence  information 
pursuant  to  Section  702  FISA  and  authorizes  electronic  surveillance,  physical  search  and  other 
investigative measures for  foreign intelligence purposes. 194 The FISC  also authorizes the procedures 
for targeting, minimizing and querying the certificates, which are legally binding  on U.S. intelligence 
agencies.195 If the FISC finds that the requirements have not been met, it may deny the certification in 
full or in part and require the procedures to be amended.               

209.  If violations of targeting procedures are identified, the FISC can order the relevant intelligence agency 
to take remedial  action.196 These  remedies  range from  individual  to  structural measures,  e.g. from 
terminating data acquisition  and deleting of  unlawfully  obtained data to a change in  the collection 
practice, including in terms of guidance and training for staff. 

210.  The EDPB acknowledges that EO 14086 provides that the CLPO and the DPRC are to report violations 
to the Assistant Attorney General for National Security, who shall report those violations to the FISC.197  

211.  As  the  CJEU  noted  in  its  Schrems  II  decision,  the  FISC  does  not  authorise  individual  surveillance 
measures; rather, it authorises  surveillance programs198. Therefore, the EDPB maintains its  concern 
that the FISC does not provide  effective judicial oversight on the targeting of non-U.S. persons  which 
appears not to be resolved by the new EO 14086.  

212.  With regard to prior  independent  authorisation199 of  surveillance under  Section 702 FISA, the EDPB 
regrets that, as the EDPB understands from the Draft Decision200 and explanations provided by the U.S. 
Government, the  FISC does  not  appear to be bound  by  the additional safeguards  of the EO  14086, 
when certifying the programs authorising the targeting of non-U.S. persons.  In the view of the EDPB, 
the additional  safeguards contained in  this  order should  nevertheless  be taken into  account in  this 
context. The EDPB recalls that reports  of the PCLOB would  be  particularly useful  to assess  how the 

                                                             
191 ECtHR Zakharov judgment, paragraph 283, ECtHR, L. v. Norway, 9 June 1990; ECtHR, Kennedy v. the United 
Kingdom, 18 May 2010, paragraph 166. 
192 42 U.S.C. §2000ee, (e). 
193 50 U.S.C. 1881 (a)  
194 www.fisc.uscourts.gov/about-foreign-intelligence-surveillance-court  
195 50 U.S.C.1881a (i) 
196 50 U.S.C. § 1803 (h)  
197  EO 14086, Section 3 (c) (i) (D); EO 14086 Section 3 (d) (i) (F)  
198 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 179. 
199 For the collection of data in bulk under EO 12333 where the FISC is not competent, the EDPB is concerned, 
that there is not a prior authorization process in place for the collection of data in bulk (see also Guarantee B). 
200 Draft Decision, recital 165. 

Adopted 

 

44 

 

safeguards of the EO 14086 will be implemented and how these  safeguards are applied when data is 
collected under Section 702 FISA. 

3.2.4  Guarantee D - Effective  remedies need to be available to the individual 

213.  The EDPB recalls that effective and enforceable rights of the individual  are of fundamental importance 
for the finding of an adequate level of data protection in a third country. Data subjects must have an 
effective  remedy  to  satisfy  their  rights  when  they  consider  that  they  are  not  or  have  not  been 
respected. The CJEU explained in its Schrems I and II decisions  that “legislation not providing for any 
possibility  for an individual  to pursue legal remedies in order to have access to personal data relating 
to  him, or  to obtain  the rectification or  erasure of  such  data, does  not  respect the essence  of  the 
fundamental right to effective judicial protection, as enshrined in Article 47 of the Charter.” 201 

214.  The U.S. system relating to judicial remedies contains an important limit that makes it very difficult to 
bring legal proceedings against surveillance measures by the U.S. Government before ordinary courts. 
The  U.S. constitution  requires  an  individual  to  demonstrate standing, i.e. to  establish  a  “concrete, 
particularized, and actual or imminent injury”. 202 In surveillance cases such requirement appears to be 
nullified  by the lack of notification to individuals  subjected to surveillance even after these measures 
have ended.  

215.  In this context, the EDPB welcomes that EO 14086 establishes a specific redress mechanism to handle 
and resolve complaints from non-U.S. individuals, concerning U.S. signals intelligence activities. Under 
this  new mechanism, the standing requirement is  not applicable: according to Section 4(k)(ii)  of  EO 
14086, the claimant does  not need  to show  that their data has in  fact been  subject  to U.S. signals 
intelligence. Data subjects can thus invoke the safeguards provided for in EO 14086, including those 
foreseen by other relevant laws and provisions  as referred to in Section 4(d)(iii)  of EO 14086. 203 In this 
regard, the new mechanism adds a redress avenue which would  otherwise not exist. 

216.  The  new  mechanism  comprises  two  layers:  Under  the  first  layer, individuals  are  able  to  lodge  a 
complaint with the Civil Liberties Protection Officer of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
(CLPO). At the second level, individuals  have the possibility  to appeal the decision of the CLPO before 
a  newly  created body,  the  so-called  Data Protection  Review  Court  (DPRC). The  following  sections 
primarily focus  on  the second tier of the redress  mechanism. The EDPB considers  that the CLPO, as 
acting government official, is not vested with a sufficient degree of independence from the executive 
and thus cannot, of itself, adequately fulfill the requirements following from Article 47 of the Charter. 
This assessment has been confirmed by the Commission  on several occasions. 

3.2.4.1  Can the establishment of the DPRC based on an Executive Order per se be sufficient 

217.  The DPRC is not an ordinary court established by Congress under Article III of the U.S. constitution but 
is based on an Executive Order issued by the U.S. President. While the EDPB is aware of and generally 
welcomes the underlying  consideration, namely  avoiding the requirement to demonstrate standing 
(see also paragraph 215), this raises a fundamental question: Can such redress mechanism meet the 
requirements of Article 47 of the Charter (at all)? According to this provision everyone whose rights 

                                                             
201 CJEU Schrems I judgment, paragraph 95; CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 187. 
202 Clapper v. Amnesty International USA, 568 U.S. 398 (2013) II. p.10. 
203 EO 14086, Section 5(h) explicitly creates an entitlement for data subjects to submit complaints in accordance 
with the redress mechanism. 

Adopted 

 

45 

 

and freedoms  guaranteed by the law of the Union are violated has the right to an effective remedy 
before a tribunal previously  established by law.  

218.  While the English wording of Article 47 of the Charter refers to a “tribunal”, other language versions 
give preference to the word “court”.204 In Schrems II the CJEU has reiterated that “data subjects must 
have the possibility  of bringing legal action before an independent and impartial court in order to have 
access to their personal data, or to obtain the rectification or erasure of such data”.205 However, in the 
same context of assessing  the adequacy of  the level  of data protection, the CJEU considers  that an 
effective judicial protection against such interferences can be ensured not only by a court, but also by 
a body, which offers guarantees essentially equivalent to those required by Article 47 of the Charter. 206 
Likewise, the ECHR stipulates  that “everyone whose  rights and freedoms  are violated shall  have an 
effective remedy before a national authority”207, which, as the ECtHR has consistently  held, does  not 
necessarily  have  to  be  a  judicial  authority. 208  Rather, the  powers  and  procedural  guarantees  an 
authority possesses,  in particular whether it is independent of the executive and ensures the fairness 
of the proceedings, are relevant to assessing the effectiveness of the remedy before that authority.209 
It appears that both courts do not base their assessment on purely formalistic criteria, but regard the 
substantive safeguards as decisive. 

219.  In Schrems II the CJEU has paid particular attention to effective redress in the area of national security 
access to personal data. The EDPB takes note that in doing so, the CJEU however did not discuss the 
“previously  established  by  law” element of Article 47 of  the Charter even though the Privacy  Shield 
Ombudsperson  mechanism  was as  well not  based  on  U.S. statutory law. Instead of  addressing  this 
issue, the CJEU assessed  different aspects for its adequacy test, such as the lack of remedial powers. 
Thus,  the  Schrems  II judgment  does  not  provide  any  guidance  on  the  assessment  of  “previously 
established by law” according to Article 47 of the Charter. However, there are other rulings in which 
the CJEU has commented on this matter. Echoing the settled case-law of the ECtHR in that regard, the 
CJEU  recalled in  its  cases  C-487/19  and  C-132/20  that the  reason for  the  introduction  of  the  term 
“previously established by law” is to ensure that the organisation of the judicial system in a democratic 
society does not depend on the discretion of the executive, but that it is regulated by law emanating 
from the legislature in compliance with the rules governing its jurisdiction. 210 As can be seen from this 
statement, the right to a tribunal previously established by law is very closely related to the guarantee 
of independence.  

220.  Against this background, the EDPB concludes that, in the context of assessing the adequacy of the level 
of protection, the specific redress mechanism created under EO 14086 as opposed to redress in Article 
III courts is  not per se insufficient.  The analysis  of the level of  protection in  this respect depends on 
whether the safeguards provided  in  EO 14086 and  complemented by the AG Regulation sufficiently 
ensure the independence of the DPRC vis-à-vis the other powers.  

221.  The  Commission  should  continuously  monitor  whether  the  rules  set  forth  in  EO  14086  and  its 
supplemental  provisions,  in  particular those  designed  to foster  the DPRC’s independence,  are  fully 

                                                             
204 For example “Gericht” in the German language version. 
205 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 194. 
206 See CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 197. 
207 Article 13 ECHR. 
208 ECtHR Klass judgment, paragraph 67; ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, paragraph 359. 
209 ECtHR Klass judgment, paragraph 67; ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, paragraph 359. 
210 See CJEU, C-487/19, judgment of 6 October 2021, W.Ż, ECLI:EU:C:2021:798 and C-132/20, judgment of 29 
March 2022, Getin Noble Bank S.A., ECLI:EU:C:2022:235, paragraph 129 and paragraph 121. 

Adopted 

 

46 

 

implemented  and  are  functioning  effectively  in  practice.  In  addition,  any  amendments  of  the 
framework should  be carefully reviewed for the impact on the Commissions  assessment according to 
the Draft Decision. In this regard, the EDPB notes that changes to EO 14086 and the AG Regulation may 
trigger the adoption of immediately applicable implementing acts suspending, repealing or amending 
the adequacy decision.211 

3.2.4.2  Sufficient independence from the executive 

222.  In its  Schrems  II ruling, the CJEU  underlined  that the independence  of  the court or  body  has  to be 
ensured,  especially  from  the executive, with  all  necessary  guarantees, including  with  regard to  its 
conditions of dismissal  or revocation of the appointment. More specifically, the CJEU has criticized the 
fact that the Ombudsperson  was appointed  by and  directly reporting to the Secretary of  State. The 
Ombudsperson was held to be an integral part of the U.S. State Department. The CJEU also found there 
were  no  particular  guarantees  for  the  dismissal  or  revocation  of  the  appointment  of  the 
Ombudsperson, hence undermining the Ombudsperson’s  independence from the executive.  

223.  The EDPB acknowledges that the provisions  of EO 14086 and the supplemental AG Regulation do not 
impose a reporting obligation on the DPRC to the Attorney General, as would be the case in a superior-
subordinate  relationship.  Nor 
is  the  DPRC  subject  to  the  Attorney  General’s  “day-to-day 
supervision”212. These safeguards are a significant improvement over the Privacy Shield. However, the 
DPRC is established within the executive branch, namely the Department of Justice. For this reason in 
particular, the implementation and effective functioning of the safeguards in practice will be critical to 
determining whether the DPRC, although not an integral part of the Department of Justice, as an entity 
nevertheless located within the executive, can be considered sufficiently independent in practice. The 
EDPB calls  on  the  Commission  to  monitor  carefully whether these  safeguards are fully  reflected in 
practice. In addition, the EDPB suggests to clarify the term “day-to-day supervision”  to the end that 
the “judges” of  the DPRC are not subject to supervision  of  any kind. The Commission  has confirmed 
that “day-to-day supervision”  is meant to be understood in this sense. 

224.  Further  to  the  above  safeguards,  the  EU-U.S.  DPF  foresees  certain  guarantees  regarding  the 
appointment and dismissal  of the DPRC “judges”. While  they are appointed by the Attorney General, 
their  appointment  is  based  on  the  criteria used  to  evaluate applicants  for  federal  judgeships  and 
involves a consultation of the PCLOB. Dismissal of “judges” prior to the expiration of their term of office 
or from an ongoing proceeding is possible  only in narrowly defined circumstances, which, as the EDPB 
understands, are modeled on the provisions  applicable to federal judges. 213 The application of these 
rules represents a further step to strengthen the independent position  of the DPRC for which, again, 
implementation in  practice will  be crucial. However, it is  not  clear from  the  Draft Decision  as such 
whether and how compliance with these requirements will be observed in the United States. Based on 
additional explanations provided by the Commission  and the U.S. Government, the EDPB understands 
that the  PCLOB  may  address  the  above  mentioned  provisions  in  its  annual  review  of  the  redress 
process  and that the responsibility  to monitor and ensure compliance with all legal requirements of 
the Inspector General within the Department of Justice includes the requirements in EO 14086 and the 
regulations establishing the DPRC. The EDPB invites the Commission  to clarify this aspect in the Draft 
Decision. That being said, the Commission  should take these safeguards into account when monitoring 
the actual practice of the processing of personal data as assessed in the Draft Decision.  

                                                             
211 Draft Decision, recital 212. 
212 AG Regulation, § 201.7 (d).  
213 EO 14086, Section 3(d)(iv); AG Regulation § 201.7. 

Adopted 

 

47 

 

225.  The Draft Decision does not address the question whether, and if so, under which conditions  the U.S. 
President has the authority to dismiss  or remove “judges” from the DPRC. It is the understanding of 
the EDPB that such authority would not exist, as has been explained by the European Commission and 
confirmed by representatives of the U.S. government. The EDPB suggests to clarify this aspect in the 
adequacy decision.  

226.  The “judges” of the DPRC are appointed for four-year renewable terms and, at the time of their initial 
appointment, must  not  have been  employed  in  the executive branch  in  the previous  two years.214 
During their term of appointment as “judges” on the DPRC, they shall not have any other official duties 
or  employment  within  the  U.S.  government.215  They  may  however,  unlike  U.S.  federal  judges, 
participate  in  extrajudicial  activities,  including  business  activities,  financial  activities,  non-profit 
fundraising activities, fiduciary activities, and the practice of law, where such activities do not interfere 
with the impartial performance of their duties or the effectiveness or independence  of the DPRC. 216 
Judicial  independence  derives  not only  from  the freedom from instructions,  but also  from personal 
independence. In this context, factors such as the term of office, the possibility  to be reappointed and 
the potential for conflicts of interest are relevant. The term of four years foreseen under EO 14086 and 
respectively the AG Regulation, while being e.g. shorter than the terms of office of judges of the CJEU 
(six  years  with  the  possibility  of  reappointment)  and  ECtHR (nine  years  without  the  possibility  of 
reappointment), but as such does not give rise to serious concerns. The EDPB is not aware of any case-
law imposing a minimum term of office in this respect217. The EDPB also recognises that the possibility 
to engage in  extrajudicial activities is  subject to  the condition  that, simply  put, they  do not  lead to 
conflicts  of  interest  compromising  the  duties  on  the  DPRC. The  EDPB  understands  from  the  U.S. 
Government`s additional explanations that these requirements are as well subject to the review and 
monitoring by the PCLOB and the Inspector General of the Department of Justice (see supra paragraph 
226). How this requirement will be applied and demonstrated in practice should  as well be addressed 
as part of the joint reviews. 

227.  Pursuant to Section 3(d)(i)(B)  EO 14086 all “judges” of  the DPRC must hold  security clearances to be 
able  to  access  classified  information,  i.e. to  carry out  their  very  function  of  adjudicating  national 
security  cases.218  Some  European  laws  and  regulations  on  security  clearance, in  contrast, exempt 
judges  from  the  requirement  of  a  security  clearance to  the  extent  they  perform  judicial  duties, 
regarding such detailed scrutiny as potentially conflicting with judicial independence. 219 According to 
explanations  by  the  U.S. Government, while  a  candidate for  a judicial  appointment  in  a U.S. court 
undergoes  a thorough  vetting, after being  appointed  to  serve  as a  federal judge  in  a  U.S. court, a 
federal judge is not required to obtain a security clearance to access classified documents relevant to 
the case.  

228.  In the EDPB’s view, the circumstances outlined above partly reveal differences between the position 
and status of a U.S. federal judge and a “judge” on the DPRC. However, the safeguards provided do 
not give reason to doubt the DPRC’s independence. The EDPB urges the Commission  that, should the 
Draft Decision be adopted, the above-mentioned safeguards be a priority during the first joint review 

                                                             
214 AG Regulation § 201.3 (a). 
215 AG Regulation § 201.3 (c). 
216 AG Regulation § 201.7 (c). 
217 See also, mutatis mutandis, ECtHR (Grand Chamber), Case of Centrum För Rättvisa V. Sweden, 25 May 2021, 
paragraph 346.  
218 See also AG Regulation § 201.11 (b) and Draft Decision, recital 177. 
219 E.g. § 2(3) German Security Clearance Law. 

Adopted 

 

48 

 

of the EU-U.S. DPF. Furthermore, the EDPB expects the Commission to follow up on their commitment 
to suspend, repeal or amend the decision, if adopted, in case the U.S. Executive choses to restrict the 
safeguards included in the EO220. 

3.2.4.3  Powers of the DPRC  

3.2.4.3.1  Access to information  

229.  Effective  legal  protection  requires  that  a  court  has  sufficient  investigatory  powers  to  review  the 
contested measure. In the Kadi II case the CJEU  ruled in regard to Article 47 of the Charter that the 
Courts  of  the European  Union  are to  ensure  that  a  decision  is  taken  on  a  sufficiently  solid  factual 
basis.221 The CJEU  states that “it is  for  the Courts  of  the European Union, in  order to carry out  that 
examination,  to  request  the  competent  European  Union  authority,  when  necessary,  to  produce 
information  or  evidence,  confidential  or  not,  relevant  to  such  an  examination” 222, whereby  “the 
secrecy or confidentiality of […] information or evidence is no valid objection”223.  

230.  Pursuant to Recital 181 of the Draft Decision the DPRC reviews the determinations made by the CLPO 
based,  at  a  minimum,  on  the  record  of  the  CLPO’s  investigation,  as  well  as  any  information  and 
submissions  provided  by the complainant, the Special Advocate or an intelligence agency. The Draft 
Decision  further states that the DPRC has  access to  all information  necessary, which  it may  obtain 
through the CLPO. This is  based on  the provision  of  § 201.9(b) AG Regulation, which authorizes the 
DPRC to “request that the ODNI CLPO supplement the record with specific explanatory or clarifying 
information and that the ODNI CLPO make additional factual findings where necessary to enable the 
DPRC panel to conduct its review”. It is the understanding of the EDPB that the assessment carried out 
by the DPRC is thus  not in any way limited to the findings  made by the CLPO at the first level of the 
new redress mechanism. On the contrary, the DPRC can seek  both additional legal information and, 
importantly, further factual circumstances for its analysis of whether a covered violation has occurred. 
At the same  time, the  EDPB also  notes  that these generally extensive  investigatory powers  do  not 
extend to direct access to the data held on the individual. The Commission has explained that the CLPO  
will always function  as an intermediary when the DPRC requires further information. Therefore, the 
DPRC’s access to information necessary to independently  adjudicate an application for review relies, 
to a certain extent, on the CLPO providing  the necessary information. The EDPB recognises that the 
CLPO has an obligation to “provide any necessary support” to the DPRC and intelligence agencies are 
obliged to provide  the CLPO with access to information  necessary to conduct the DPRC’s review  224. 
The  EDPB also  notes,  however,  that  the  CLPO  itself  is  not  independent  and  conducts  the  initial 
investigation of a complaint at the first stage of the redress procedure. Therefore, the EDPB welcomes 
that the PCLOB will verify during its annual reviews of the redress mechanism whether the DPRC has 
obtained full  access to all necessary  information225. In addition, the EDPB invites the Commission  to 
include this aspect in the joint reviews, if the Draft Decision is adopted, to examine the implications of 
this system in practice. 

                                                             
220 Draft Decision, recital 212. 
221  CJEU,  Joined Cases C-584/10 P, C-593/10 P and C-595/10 P, European Commission and Others v Yassin 
Abdullah Kadi, judgment of 18 July 2013 (hereinafter, ‘CJEU Kadi II judgment’), paragraph 119. 
222 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 120. 
223 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 125. 
224 EO 14086, Section 3(c)(i)(H) and Section 3(d)(iii). 
225EO 14086, Section 3(e)(i).  

Adopted 

 

49 

 

3.2.4.3.2  Remedial powers 

231.  One of the central deficiencies of the Privacy Shield that led to its invalidation by the CJEU in Schrems 
II was  the  lack of  binding  remedial powers  for  the  Ombudsperson.  The  CJEU  found  that “there is 
nothing […] to indicate that that ombudsperson  has the power to adopt decisions  that are binding on 
those intelligence services”.226 The mere (political) commitment from the U.S. Government that the 
Intelligence  Community  would  correct  any  violation  of  the  applicable  rules  detected  by  the 
Ombudsperson  did not suffice to ensure a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed 
in Article 47 of the Charter. 

232.  Under the new redress mechanism, by contrast, the decisions taken by the CLPO and by the DPRC have 
binding  effect.227 The EDPB recognizes, on the one hand, that this authority is not limited to specific 
measures,  but  allows  “appropriate remediation”  to “fully  redress”  an  identified  covered  violation. 
Notably, Section 4(a) of EO 14086 explicitly mentions the deletion of unlawfully collected data. On the 
other hand, the EDPB notes that the wording of Section 4(a) of EU 14086 creates some uncertainty as 
to the process of  determining such “appropriate remediation”. While a measure should be designed 
to fully redress a violation, consideration should  also be given to “the ways that a violation of the kind 
identified  have  customarily  been  addressed”. 228  The  meaning  and  effect  of  such  requirement  is 
unclear. Therefore, the EDPB invites  the Commission  to closely  monitor the  remediation measures 
adopted in practice. 

3.2.4.4  Filing a complaint under the new redress mechanism 

233.  The  redress  mechanism  established  under  EO  14086  is  only  applicable  to  qualifying  complaints 
transmitted by the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state concerning United States signals 
intelligence  activities  for  any  covered  violation. 229  Hence,  in  order  to  avail  oneself  of  this  legal 
protection, several conditions  need to be fulfilled. 

3.2.4.4.1  Designation as qualifying state 

234.  First  of  all,  the  country  or  regional  economic  integration  organization, from  where  the  data was 
transferred to the United  States must have  been designated as  a qualifying  state prior to  the data 
transfer underlying the complaint.230 It is evidently essential that the redress mechanism provided  is 
available when  the adequacy decision  enters into  application. Accordingly, Recital 196 of  the  Draft 
Decision provides  that the entry into force of the decision  is conditional, inter alia, on the designation 
of the Union as a qualified entity for the purposes  of the redress mechanism. In fact, the Commission 
appears to assume that the designation will occur prior to the adoption of the decision, as the draft 
already includes  a  placeholder  for  the  Attorney General’s designation  of  the  EU 231 (as  opposed  to 
including the designation as a condition precedent in the operative part of the Draft Decision).  

3.2.4.4.2  Adverse affect on privacy and civil liberties interests and “standing” 

235.  A “qualifying complaint” needs to be based on an alleged “covered violation”, which in turn requires a 
violation that adversely affects the complainant’s individual privacy and civil liberties interests232. It is 

                                                             
226 CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraph 196. 
227 EO 14086, Section 3(c)(ii) and Section 3(d)(ii) , respectively. 
228 EO 14086, Section 4(a). 
229 EO 14086, Section 3(a). 
230 EO 14086, Sections 4(d)(i), 4(k)(i). 
231 Draft Decision, footnote 320. 
232 EO 14086, Section 4(k)(i) and 4(d)(ii). 

Adopted 

 

50 

 

the  understanding  of  the  EDPB,  based  on  additional  explanations  from  the  Commission,  that 
“adversely affect” does not imply any form of restriction on the admissibility  of a complaint. Rather, 
as  the  Commission  stated,  such  adverse  affect  would  pertain  to  any  complaint  concerning  the 
processing of personal data for signals intelligence activities in violation of the provisions  referred to 
in Section 4(d)(iii), e.g. the safeguards of EO 14086. The EDPB regrets that this is not specified in the 
text of the Draft Decision and invites the Commission  to further clarify the notion of being “adversely 
affected” in order to ensure that any violation of the data subjects’ rights are assessed and remediated 
and that there is no  level of  “gravity” to be demonstrated to have access to redress and appropriate 
remediation. 

236.  As  already mentioned, a complaint  under  EO 14086 does  not  require the  claimant to  demonstrate 
standing (see paragraph 215)233. The EDPB welcomes the clarification in Section 4(k) EO 14086 that a 
“belief test” will be applied and that it is not necessary to show that the complainant's data has in fact 
been accessed through signal intelligence activities. The establishment of the redress mechanism is an 
important step, as the standing requirement makes it very difficult to challenge surveillance measures 
before ordinary courts in the United States.  

237.  Based  on  the  above,  the EDPB  does  not  consider  recourse  to  ordinary  courts, to  which  the Draft 
Decision also refers234, to offer an adequate level of protection235. In this regard, the EDPB recalls its 
concerns  already  many  times  expressed  in  relation  to  the  standing  requirement  before  ordinary 
courts236. Moreover, based on additional statements by the U.S. government, it is  the understanding 
of the EDPB that while EO 14086 does not preclude recourse to the courts of general jurisdiction, it is 
uncertain how  such  a court would  apply  this  Order. This question  could  be  explored further in  the 
future reviews, if the Draft Decision is adopted. 

3.2.4.4.3  The procedure of a complaint 

238.  The EDPB endorses in principle the procedure for routing a complaint through supervisory authorities 
of the Member States and continues to believe that the identification of the complainant should  take 
place  on  EU  territory. However, as  under  the  Privacy  Shield  Ombudsperson  mechanism,  the  Draft 
Decision  provides  that a  data  subject  who  wishes  to  lodge  such  a  complaint  must  submit  it  to  a 
supervisory authority in an EU Member State competent for the oversight of national security services 
and/or  the processing  of  personal  data by  public  authorities237. In  this respect, the EDPB recalls its 
concerns  already  expressed  in  the  WP  29’s  Opinion  on  the  Privacy  Shield,  for  instance  potential 
difficulties  for  individuals  to  identify  the  competent  authority  given  the  variety  of  supervision 
mechanisms of national security services in Member States238. Taking into account the involvement of 
the national data protection  authorities in the application  of  and oversight on  the EU-U.S. DPF it is 
more appropriate to channel complaints through them. 

3.2.4.5  The decision of the DPRC  

239.  After the review of the complainant’s application is completed, the DPRC must not reveal whether or 
not  the  complainant  was  subject  to  U.S.  signals  intelligence  activities. Instead, the  complainant  is 

                                                             
233 Clapper v. Amnesty International USA, 568 U.S. 398 (2013) II. p.10. 
234 Draft Decision, recital 187 et seq.  
235 See also CJEU Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 191, 192. 
236 See WP29 Opinion 01/2016, p. 43. 
237 Draft Decision, recital 169 . 
238 WP29 Opinion 01/2016, p. 48, 49. 

Adopted 

 

51 

 

notified that “the review either did not identify any covered violations  or the Data Protection Review 
Court issued a determination requiring appropriate remediation”239. This standard response serves the 
generally  legitimate purpose  of  protecting sensitive  information  about  U.S.  intelligence  activities. 
However, the EDPB is concerned that EO 14086 does not provide for any exemptions to the standard 
response of the DPRC. 

240.  In the Kadi II case, the CJEU had to address the conflicting interests of state secrecy on the one hand 
and  fair,  and  as  far  as  possible,  adversarial  proceedings  on  the  other.  The  CJEU  ruled  that  in 
circumstances where overriding considerations to do with national security preclude the disclosure of 
information or evidence to the person concerned, it is none the less the task of the courts to apply, in 
the course of judicial review, techniques which accommodate legitimate security considerations about 
the  nature and  sources  of  information  and  the  need  to  sufficiently  guarantee the respect  for  the 
individual’s  procedural  rights, such  as the right to be  heard and the requirement for an  adversarial 
process240. The CJEU further specified that it is for the courts, when carrying out an examination of all 
the  matters  of  fact  or  law  produced  by  the  competent  European  Union  authority,  to  determine 
whether  the  reasons  relied  on  by  that  authority  as  grounds  to  preclude  that disclosure  are  well 
founded241. If it turns out that the reasons relied on by the competent European Union  authority do 
indeed preclude the disclosure to the person concerned of information or evidence, it is still necessary 
to strike an appropriate balance between the requirements attached to the right to effective judicial 
protection, and those flowing from national security242. In order to strike such a balance, it is legitimate 
to consider possibilities such as the disclosure of a summary outlining the information’s content or that 
of  the  evidence  in  question243.  Although  the  court's  findings  do  not  impose  requirements  for  the 
decision  issued  by a court but  rather relates to the decision  of the competent authority and to the 
conduct of judicial proceedings, they provide indications about the balancing of the above mentioned 
interests in the context of the right to effective legal protection. For further guidance, reference can 
also  be  made  to  the  Big Brother  Watch case,  in  which  the  ECtHR, alluding  to  the  fairness  of  the 
proceedings and  in particular to the principle  of an adversarial process,  held that the decisions  of a 
judicial or otherwise independent body should be reasoned244. 

241.  The  EDPB recognizes  that the  decisions  of  the  DPRC are  indeed  reasoned.  The  DPRC is  expressly 
required  to  issue  a  written  decision  setting  out  its  determinations  and  the  specification  of  any 
appropriate  remediation245. In  addition,  the  EDPB notes  that the  individual  will  be  notified  if  the 
information pertaining to a review by the DPRC has been declassified246. The EDPB also recognises the 
role  of  the  special  advocates  foreseen  in  the  new  redress  mechanism  that  includes  advocating 
regarding the  complainant's  interest  in  the  matter247. However, in  light  of  the  implications  of  the 
jurisprudence  of the CJEU and ECtHR set out above  and taking into account that the decision of the 
DPRC cannot be appealed but is final248, the EDPB has concerns about the general application of the 
standard  response  of  the  DPRC. The  EDPB  recalls  that  the  PCLOB  will  independently  review  the 
functioning of the new redress mechanism and invites the Commission  to pay particular attention to 

                                                             
239 EO 14086, Section 3(d)(i)(H). Section EO 14086 stipulates this response for the CLPO as well. 
240 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 125. 
241 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 126. 
242 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 128. 
243 CJEU Kadi II judgment, paragraph 129. 
244 ECtHR Big Brother Watch judgment, paragraph 359. 
245 AG Regulation, § 201.9 (g). 
246 EO 14086, Section 3(d)(v).  
247 AG Regulation, § 201.8 (g). 
248 AG Regulation, § 201.9 (g). 

Adopted 

 

52 

 

this issue, including any assessment on this aspect by the PCLOB, during future reviews of the decision, 
if adopted. 

4 

IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE DRAFT DECISION  

242.  Concerning the monitoring and review of the Draft Decision, the EDPB notes that according to the case 
law of the CJEU, ‘in the light of the fact that the level of protection ensured by a third country is liable 
to change, it is incumbent upon the Commission,  after it has adopted an adequacy decision  pursuant 
to [Article 45 GDPR], to check periodically whether the finding relating to the adequacy of the level of 
protection ensured by the third country in question is still factually and legally justified. Such a check 
is required, in any event, when evidence gives rise to a doubt in that regard’ 249.  

243.  In addition, the EDPB notes that the letter from the DoC provides that the DoC and other US agencies, 
as appropriate, will hold meetings on a periodic basis with the Commission,  interested EU DPAs, and 
appropriate representatives from the EDPB 250.  

244.  The EDPB considers that the state law protection in relation to access by law enforcement authorities, 
the derogation for  temporary bulk  collection in  view  of  targeted collection  by  US national  security 
authorities,  the  application  in  practice  of  the  newly  introduced  principles  of  necessity  and 
proportionality,  including  in  the context of  the UPSTREAM program,  the interplay  between the EO 
14086 and the different U.S. legal instruments allowing U.S. intelligence agencies to collect and further 
process personal data, the implementing internal policies and procedures, how these safeguards will 
also  be  taken  into  account  in  the  context of  the  oversight  led  by  the  FISC,  and  how  the  redress 
mechanism  will  function  effectively,  and  the  question  of  onward  transfers,  automated-decisions, 
substantive and effective oversight and enforcement of the DPF Principles as well as effective redress 
will deserve specific attention in the course of the next periodic reviews. 

245.  The EDPB notes that the review of the adequacy finding will take place after one year from the date of 
the notification of the adequacy decision  to the Member States and subsequently  at least every four 
years251. With  a view to further strengthening the continuous  monitoring  of the adequacy decision, 
the EDPB calls on the Commission  to carry out the subsequent reviews at least every three years.  

246.  Concerning  the  practical involvement  of  the  EDPB and  its  representatives in  the  preparation  and 
proceeding of the future periodic reviews, the EDPB reiterates that any relevant documentation should 
be shared in writing with the EDPB, including correspondence, sufficiently in advance of the reviews.  
As was the case for the reviews carried out under the Privacy Shield,  the EDPB recommends that, at 
the  latest  three  months  before  the  review  should  take  place,  the  modalities  for  the  review  are 
established and agreed between the Commission,  the US administration and the EDPB.  

247.  Furthermore, the EDPB notes and welcomes that Recital 212 of the Draft Decision provides  examples 
of modifications  undermining the level of protection that may justify the initiation of an ’emergency 
repeal  procedure’ that  focuses  on  modifications  that could  occur  concerning  the  Executive Order 
14086 and the related AG Regulation.  

 

 

                                                             
249 CJEU Schrems I judgment, paragraph 76. See also Draft Decision, Article 3(4).  
250 Draft Decision, Annex III. 
251 Draft Decision, Article 3(4).  

Adopted 

 

53 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

 

54 

