ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS 

OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENAL TY NOTICE 

To: 

Cover  Appliance  Limited 

Of: 

65  London Wall,  London,  England,  EC2M  5TU 

1.o

The Information Commissioner  ("the Commissioner") has decided too

issue Cover  Appliance  Limited  ("CAL")  with  a  monetary  penalty unde:ro
section  SSA of the Data Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA").  The penalty  is  ini
relation to a serious contravention of regulations 21  and 24  of theo

Privacy  and Electronic Communications  (EC Directive)  Regulations 2003o

(" PECR").o

2.o This notice explains the Commissioner's  decision.o

Legal framework 

3.o CAL,  whose registered office is given above  (Companies  Houseo

Registration  Number:  12883535) is the organisation stated in thiso

notice to have used .a public electronic communications  service for theo

purpose of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of direct  marketingo

contrary to  regulation 21 of  PECR.o

4.o

Regulation  21  applies to the  making  of  unsolicited calls  for  directo

marketing  purposes.  It means  that  if a company wants  to  make  callso

promoting a product or service to an individual who has a telephoneo

number  which is registered with the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 
("TPS"), then that individual must have  notified the company that they 
do  not object to receiving  such calls from it. 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

5. 

Regulation 21 paragraph ( 1) of PECR provides that: 

"(1) A person shall neither use, 

nor instigate 

the use of, a public 

electronic 

communications 

service 

for the purposes 

of making 

unsolicited 

calls for direct marketing 

purposes 

where-

(a)  the called line is that of a subscriber 

who has previously 

notified 

the caller 

that such calls  should 

not for the time being 

be made on that line; or 

(b)  the number allocated 

to a subscriber 

in respect of the called 

line is one listed in the register 

kept under regulation 
26." 

6. 

Regulation 21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4) and (5) provide that: 

"(2) A subscriber 

shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

of paragraph 
(1). 

(3) A person shall not be held to have contravened  paragraph 

(1)(b) 

where the number allocated 

to the called line has been listed on the 

register 

for less than 28 days preceding 

that on which the call is 

made. 

(4) Where a subscriber 

who has caused a number allocated 

to a line of 

his to be listed in the register 

kept under regulation 

has notified 

26 

a caller that 

he  does  not,  for 

the time being, object to such calls 

being made on that line by that  caller, 

such calls may be made by 

ICO. 

Information Comimissioner's Office 

that caller on that  line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated 

to that line is listed  in  the  said register. 

(5)  Where a subscriber has given  a caller notification  pursuant to 

paragraph (4)  in relation to  a line of  his-

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw  that notification at 

any time,  and 

(b) where  such  notification  is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not 

make  such  calls on that  line." 

7. 

Regulation 24  of PECR provides: 

"(1)  Where a public  electronic communications service is used for the 

transmission of a communication for direct marketing purposes 

the  person  using,  or  instigating the use  of, the service shall 

ensure  that the  following information  is  provided  with that 

communication  -

(b) 

in relation to  a communication to which regulation 21 

[or 21A} (telephone calls) applies,  the  particulars 
mentioned in  paragraph (2)(a) and,  if the recipient of 

the call so requests,  those mentioned in paragraph 

(2)(b). 

(2)  The particulars referred to in paragraph (1) are  -

(a) 

the name of  the  person; 

(b)  either the address of the  person or a telephone 

number on  which he  can  be reached free of  charge." 

3 

ICO. 

lnlormalion Com mlssioner·s Office 

1 

8. 

9. 

10. 

Under regulation 26 of  PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
a register of  numbers allocated  to  subscribers who have notified  them 
that they do not  wish,  for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct marketing purposes on those  lines. The  Telephone  Preference 
Service  Limited  ("TPS") is a limited company which operates the 
register on the Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who  wish to carry 
out  direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to  the  TPS  for a fee 
and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on that register. 

(by whatever 

Section  122(5) of the DPA18 defines direct marketing as  "the 
means) of advertising 
communication 

or marketing 
This definition also 
material 
applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR & Schedule 
19 paragraphs 430 & 432(6) DPA18). 

which is  directed  to 

individuals". 

particular 

"Individual" is defined in regulation 2( 1) of PECR as "a living 
and includes 

an unincorporated 

body of such individuals". 

individual 

11.  A "subscriber" is  defined in regulation 2( 1) of  PECR as  "a person who is 

a party to a contract 

with a provider 

of pub! ic electronic 

communications 

services 

for the supply of such services". 

12.  Section  SSA of the  DPA (as applied to  PECR cases by Schedule  1 to 

PECR, as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1) The Commissioner 

may serve a person with a monetary 

penalty 

if 

the Commissioner 

is satisfied 

that -

(a) there has been a serious 

contravention 

of the requirements 

of the Privacy 

and Electronic 

Communications 

(EC 

Directive) 

Regulations 

2003 by the person/ 

4 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(b) subsection  (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 

(3)  This subsection  applies if the  person  -

(a) 

knew or ought to have  known that there was a risk that 

the contravention would occur, but 

(b) 

failed to  take reasonable steps to  prevent the 

contravention. 

13.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section SSC  (1) 

of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 

published on the  ICO's  website.  The Data  Protection  (Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and Notices)  Regulations 2010 prescribe 

that  the amount  of  any penalty determined by the  Commissioner must 

not  exceed £500,000. 

14. 

PECR were  enacted to protect the individual's fundamental right to 

privacy  in the electronic communications sector.  PECR were 

subsequently amended  and strengthened.  The Commissioner will 

interpret PECR in  a way  which  is  consistent with the Regulations' 

overall aim of ensuring  high levels of protection for  individuals' privacy 

rights. 

15.  The provisions of the  DPA remain  in force for  the  purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding  the introduction of  the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20 to  the  DPA18. 

Background 

to the case 

16.  CAL  is a  company  that provides  home appliance cover.  CAL was 

incorporated on  16  September 2020  and is registered at Companies 

House  under  registered  number 12883535. 

5 

ICO. 

Information 

Comrnissioner

·s Office 

17.  CAL first came to the  attention of the  Commissioner in  2021  as part  of 

investigations into  complaints  received  regarding organisations making 

unsolicited telephone calls to vulnerable individuals about white goods 

maintenance and warranty products. 

18.  On or around 4 June  2021,  the Commissioner  received two  complaints 

that identified CAL and two  calling  line  identifiers  ("CU").  These details 

were  searched against the TPS and the Commissioner's  online 

reporting  tool (''OLRT"), which identified  three TPS  complaints and  six 

OLRT complaints. 

19.  According to some  of the  complaints received about CAL, their calls 

were  advertising maintenance  and warranty  products for white goods 

to elderly and vulnerable individuals  which included the use of 

aggressive behaviour. 

20.  The following are  examples of  the comments made about  CAL by TPS 

complainants: 

"Call received by elderly lady who was led to believe she was renewing 
existing cover but was sold new policy.  Phone number on company 
website  goes through to Vodafone mobile voicemail.  Caller  sold 
insurance cover that was not needed and misled about the  cost.  Novv 
unable  to contact them to  cancel and will have to try to claim monev 
back  from the bank." 

"I was not present  when they called  but they seem to have sold some 
kind of  insurance  to my mother  who  is old and  vulnerable  (hence  why 
her number has  been registered on  TPS for some time) and charged 
her  £190,  which  I am trying  to get refunded from them  There seem 
[sic] to be a large number of companies who are targeting my moth,er 

6 

ICO. 

Information Commiss oner's Office 

i 

in  this way and  selling  her insurance  for white  good  or TVs or similar. 
None  of  which  she  wants  or needs.  They do it when  I am not  there 
[sic] she  becomes worried  that she  is at  risk if she does buy 
insurance. 11 

21.  The following are examples of the comments made about CAL by OLIRT 

complainants: 

"Appliance  cove r  that I apparently took  out in  2019 for  3 years and  was 
due  in  March  2022 and  [sic] they were  trying  to  take  my  final year 
payment and [sic] were  offering  me  a  65% discount,  [sic] they had  the 
correct address for me  and  tried  to  blag  that if I refused  to  pay I would 
have  to pay a cancellation  fee  of nearly 200 pound  - she  threatened  to 
put me  through  to the  claims depar tment, I asked  for proof of  this 
policy to be  sent to me  via email  but she  refused  saying  I should have 
received  it 2 years ago although  I haven't [sic] I stated  that they we re 
scam artists and  would not rece ived  [sic] a  penny out of me  without 
proof  of me agreeing  to  the  policy  - so I hung up. 11 

"This call  was made  to  my elderly mother.  She  was told  tha t she 
needed  to renew her insurance  cover for kitchen  white  goods 
appliances.  Not needed as the  items are  less than a year  old!  They 
then  proceeded  to  try and  take  £190. 00 from  her current account ... 
This company (and  others) has continually harassed  my  mother. 
Looking  at her call list they called at least five  times last week.  All 
unsolicited. This is ge tting  to  the  point  when she  does not want to 
answer her phone  at home.  She  feels foolish  that  these  pe ople  are 
trying  to get her  money.  She  feels harassed and upset by the  whole 
thingi. "  

7 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"They claimed  that we have a n  existing h ome appliance insurance 
policy with  them which  they wanted  to renew. I've never heard  of this 
company before and  it's less  than a  year old according  to companies 
[sic] house.  I asked  th em not  to call again but literally a  few minutes 
later got a  text from my bank  saying  they had  tried  to debit £190 from 
my account (I never gave them any information about myself)  . . .  They 
phone repeaitedly giving different company names each  time  - mulitiple 
times per day.  Today they tried  to steal  £190 from my bank account.i" 

22.  The TPS wrote to  CAL on or after  12 July 2021  informing them that 
they believed the organisation was contacting individuals on the TPS 
register. 

23.  On 18  August 2021, the Commissioner issued a third  party information 

') to obtain subscriber 

notice to 
identified the subscriber as CAL and  provided 
information .  
a list of CLis allocated to them. The  CLI list showed numbers allocated 
to various individuals as well as numbers allocated to unspecific  names 
such as 'Co service',  'Cover appliance',  'UK home cover' and 'make 
safe'. 

24.  On 3 November 2021, 

provided call detail records ("CDR") 
for these  Clls.  The CDRs were screened against the TPS register and 
showed CAL made  267,659 calls between 1  January 2021 to 31 July 
2021, 197,640 of which were made to TPS registered individuals. 

2 5.  On 25 November  2021, the Commissioner  contacted  CAL via telephone. 

CAL explained it  had  experienced problems with its data  provider six 
months ago but did not  name the  provider.  CAL asked that the 
Commissioner send their letter to  CAL via email and provided an email 
address 
and telephone  number.  The 
telephone number  provided by CAL appeared on the CLI  list  provided 

co. 

Information Comimissioner's Office 

as being  allocated to CAL. The Commissioner sent an 
by 
initial investigation letter via e mail to CAL that  same day.  The letter 
requested information to help ascertain  CAL's compliance with  PECR,, 
outlined the Commissioner's powers and required  a  resiponse by 16 
December 2021. 

26.  On 30 November 2021, CAL responded to the Commissioner's initial 

investigation  letter via email but  provided limited information. CAL did 
provide a copy of its training manual, but the second page was 
missing.  CAL was unable to  provide a full list of CLI's it  had used, th,e 
volume of calls  made over the  period in question or  any details of third 
party  providers,  as requested by the Commissioner. 

27.  CAL explained it introduced the company on the calls and asked the 

individuals if they are happy to continue the call.  If consent was given 
on the call carried on. If consent was not given CAL ended the call. CAL 
did not provide any evidence  to support this. 

28.  CAL stated that the data  used  was screened prior  to  their receipt and 

that it was sourcing  new suppliers. 

29.  CAL also stated that the details  of individuals who do not  wish to be 
contacted are  entered into  their CRM system  'not allowing 
ever be called again even with human error'. 
developing a new CRM du plication and suppression list  software,  which 
was due to  go  live early January 2022. 

CAL stated it was 

this client to 

30.  On  9  December 2021, the Commissioner sent further queries to  CAL. 

relating to the  unanswered  questions from  the  initial investigation 
letteri.  These  queries  requested the  full  list of CLis it had used, the 
num ber of calls  made and connected over the period of 1 January 2021 
- 31 July 2021, the  source  of the data  CAL used to promote its 

9 

business, details of  third party providers  and  an  explanation for the 
number of complaints received by the TPS. 

co. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

31.  On  12 January  2022,  CAL responded and  explained  most of its 
technical team  were  unable to  operate due to an outbreak of 
coronavirus in the  office so they would  respond within  14 working days. 

32.  On  13 January 2022, the Commissioner asked CAL to  respond to t he 
queries that did  not require techinical support  and stated if it did not 
respond,  the investigation would proceed based on the evidence 
available. 

33.  That same day, the Commissioner sent  a further third party 

requesting the CDRs for  all  identified 

information  notice  to 
CLis for the  period  of 1 August 2021 to  31 December 2021.  On 24 
February 2022, 
The additional CDRs were  screened  against the  TPS register and 
showed CAL made 860,781 calls  over the  period of  1 August 2021 to 
31 December 2021, 326,877 of which  were to individuals  registered 
with the TPS. 

provided the additional CDRs as requested. 

34.  On  14 March 2022, the  Commissioner asked CAL to  respond  to  their 

further queries  raised on  9  December 2021 and  13  January 2022.  CAL 
did not respond. 

35.  On 18 May  2022, the Commissioner sent an end of investigation letter 

to CAL's registered address  and by email.  The letter explained since 
CAL had  not responded to  the  Commissioner's  requests  for  information, 
the  invesitigation had been completed on the evidence available.  CAL 
were reminded of  the Commissioner's powers as  set out  in  the  initial 
investigation letter dated  25 November 2021. 

1 0  

ICO. 

Information Commiss oner's Office 

i 

36.  On 24 May  2022,  further searches of the TPS and the Commissioner's 

online  reporting tool (OLRT)  were  conducted using the CLis  allocated  to 

CAL  for the period  of  1 January 2022 to 24  May 2022.  Two TPS 

complaints and three  OLRT complaints  were identified,  showing calls 

had been made from  'UK Home Care Cover Limited',  'Home Care 

Solutions',  'Home Guard  Home  Solutions'  and  'Platinum Cover'. 

37.  The following is an example of one of the comments made about CAL 

by TPS complainants: 

■ 

(£190 declined  by bank), 

"Selling kitchen appliance insurance.  Preying  on my elderly mother. 
This  is  the umpteenth  time they have done this,  trying  to  take 
payments from  her 
(£200 successfully  and subject of rec overy by bank),  and  yesterday 
(£130 declined  by bank).  This company is  targeting my mother and  has 
called  her umpteen  times.  They know she is  vulnerable  and  does  not 
know what she is  buying. I have emailed  them  three times  now  telling 
them  she is with TPS, is vulnerable and  does  not need  any services 
from  her.  But they keep calling  and,  as  I do not live with her,  I cannot 
intercept the calls . I have also called  their number to  tell them  to  leave 
her alone but the  number always g oes  to  answerphone.  They have 
recently changed  their number (from 
- and  their contact email (from 

to 

38.  The following are examples of the comments made about CAL  by OLRT 

complainants: 

""company' [sic] claims property owner has domestic appliance 
insurance contract.  Property owner  believes it to  be a scam  and  [sic] 
never set it up.  Have received numerous calls over  past month,  when 
quiz [sic] caller about the contract and  ask [sic] for evidence,  they 

1 1  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

hang up. Some  callers have been aggressive. Have  repeatedly asked 
them to leave  owner alone  and said that  it  is harassment.  Property 
owne r is vulnerable, elderly man ....  It's harassment.  They  keep calling. 
Have  requested them  to provide e vidence  of so called contract by post 
or email and they refuse.  Think they are trying  to  scam  out of more 
money  [sic] for domestic appliance  insurance.  Other similar calls  have 
been made  from the  following numbers: 

company  online. 11 

Cannot find details of 

"I was told  I had to pay £200 f or a  contract for domestic appliance 
insurance.  When I said I was not prepared  to pay because I had not 
taken  out such a contract, the  caller ... said  "madam you will  pay. 11 His 
tone was threatening, I replaced the  receiver ...  The  caller's persistence 
and aggression distressed me. I spent £60 buying  a new handset which 
n ow  filters and blocks  calls.  Yesterday (15/3)  I was called twice  during 
the  afternoon.  I deleted the  calls.  I blocked the  phone number. 

11

"My  81 year  old mother-in-law  was  called earlier  in  the  week, and 
again  today by someone  claiming  to be  from the above  company.  He 
called himself-and was  very threatening saying  that my in -laws 
needed to pay a  cancellation  fee for a  white goods ins urance  policy.  He 
rang  four  times  over  a two hour period. -had bu llie d and tricke d 
them into taking  out the insurance in  January  of this  year.  My  father in 
law has  dementia an�on vinced my mother in  law she  was 
rene wing  a policy he  had pre viously taken  out. -today threatened 
to send  'siomeonei' to  the  house  to get  the  money.  My  mother  in  laiw 
asked him to ring  my  husband. -hen  called back twice  saying  that 
he  has spoken  with my husband and he had given his go ahead  for  the 
payment to be  made.  This  was a  lie  as no calls  were  made.  With  our 
support my mother in  law had already stopped the  direct de bit  to this 

1 2  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

are very upset and frightened, 

company with their bank, XXX. She felt very intimidated 
by the call and 
was frightened someone was going to come to the house and demand 
money ... My in-laws 
and intimidated 
as the  calls 
scam companies 
department who are trying to recoup some of the money they have 
lost. " 

-has  been increasingly 
They have also been victims of other 

and we have been in contact with XXX fraud 

have progressed. 

by these calls. 

and feel harassed 

threatening 

39. 

In  August 2022, the Commissioner  re-screened the call records 
provided by 
between  1  January 2021 and 31  December 2021  CAL made 677,165 
calls that  were connected, of  which 5 11,499 had been made to TPS 
registered numbers. 

against the TPS.  The results showed that 

40.  The  Commissioner is satisfied that the  51i1,499 calls  were all  made for 
the  purposes of direct marketing as defined  by section  122(5) DPA18. 

41.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

balance of probabilities. 

42.  The  Commissioner  has considered w hether those facts constitute a 
contravention of regulations 21 and  24  of PECR by CAL and, if so, 
whether the conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied. 

The contravention 

43.  The  Commissioner finds that CAL contravened regulations  21  and 24 of 

PECR. 

1 3  

44.  The  Commissioner finds that  the  contravention was as  follows: 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

45. 

Between  1 January to 31  December 2021, CAL used a public 
telecommunications service for  the purposes of making 51 1,499 
unsolicited  calls for  direct marketing purposes to  subscribers where the 
number allocated to  the  subscriber in respect of  the called line  was  a, 
number listed on the register of numbers kept by the Commissioner in 
accordance  with regulation 26, contrary to regulation 21( l){b) of  PECR. 
This resulted  in 9 complaints being made to the TPS and the 
Commissioner. 

46i. 

The Commissioner is also  satisfied  for the purposes of regulation 21 
that these 511,499 unsolicited direct marketing calls were  made to 
subscribers  who  had registered with  the TPS at  least  28 days prior to 
receiving the calls,  and who for  the purposes of regulation 21(4) hadl 
not notified CAL that they did  not object to  receiving such calls. 

47.  For  such notification  to  be valid under regulation  21(4), the individual 

must have taken a clear  and  positive action to override their TPS 
registration  and indicate their  willingness to  receive  marketing calls 
from the company. The notification  should reflect  the  individual's 
choice about whether or  not they are  willing to receive marketing callls. 
Therefore,  where signing up to  use  a product  or service is  conditional 
upon receiving  marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate 
how  this  constitutes a clear and  positive notification of the individual's 
willingness to receive such calls. 

48.  The notification  must  clearly indicate the individual's willingness to 

receive marketing  calls  specifically-' Companies cannot rely on 
individuals opting  in to  marketing communications generally, unless it 
is clear that this will  include telephone  calls. 

1 4  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

49. 

Further, the  notification  must  demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to  receive marketing calls from  that  company specifically.  Notifications 

will not be valid for the purposes of regulation 21(4) if  individuals are 

asked to agree to receive  marketing calls  from "similar organisations:", 

"partners", "selected third parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

50.  The Commissioner has considered the response from CAL  about how 

notifications  are obtained and is concerned that in each case there are 

issues regarding  whether. they comply with  requirements of regulation 

21 ( 4).  CAL have not provided evidence that the subscribers did not, for 

the time being,  object to being called by CAL. The evidence CAL 

provided  stated CAL  are,  in fact,  making calls to illicit the consent 

which  is in  breach of regulation 21(4). 

5 1. 

Further, CAL  failed,  as required by regulation 24 of PECR,  to  provide 

the recipient  of the  calls  with the particulars specified  at regulation 

24(2)  of  PECR. 

52.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 

under section  SSA DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness  of  the  contravention 

53.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

above  was serious. This  is because there have been  multiple  breaches 

of regulations  21  and 24  by  CAL  arising from  the organisation's 

activities  between  1 January to 31 December 2021,  and  this led to 

5 1 1 ,499 unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls  being made  to subscribers 

who were  registered with the TPS and who had not notified CAL that: 

they  were willing  to  receive such calls,  and nine complaints being made 

as  a  result. 

1 5  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

54. 

Further,  CAL did not provide a telephone number that identified CAL as 
the  caller and used  different  company names to  avoid detection.  This 
prevented individuals  from contacting CAL. 

55.  The  Commissioner is  therefore satisfied that condition  (a) from 

section  SSA  (1) DPA is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent 

contraventions 

56.  The  Commissioner has  considered whether the contravention identified 

above  was  deliberate.  In  the Commissioner's view,  this  means  that 
CAL's  actions  which constituted that contiravention were deliberate 
actions  ( even if CAL did not  actually intend thereby to  contravene 

PECR). 

57.  The  Commissioner considers that  in this  case CAL did deliberately 

contravene regulations  21 and  24 of  P ECR.  CAL were  given  an 
opportunity by  the  Commissioner to respond  to  the investigation but 
failed to provide a full and  adequate  response. 

58. 

For the above reasons, the  Commissioner is  satisfied that this  breacl1 
was deliberate. 

59. 

60. 

Further and in the alternative,  the Commissioner has gone on to 
consider whether the contravention identified  above  was  negligent. 
This  consideration  comprises two elementsi: 

Firstly, he  has  considered whether CAL knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that there was a risk that  this  contravention  would occur. 
He is satisfied that this  condition is met due  to the misleading and 

1 6  

threatening  nature  of  the  calls and the continued calls despite 
suppression requests. 

ICO. 

Information Comrmss,oner·s Office 

61.  The Commissioner has also  published detailed guidance for companies 
carrying out marketing explaining their legal requirements  under  PECR. 
This guidance  explains the circumstances under which organisations 
are  able to carry out marketing over the  phone, by text, by email, by 
post or by fax.  Specifically, it states that live calls must not be made  to 
any subscriber registered  with the TPS, unless the subscriber has 
specifically notified the company that they do  not, for the time being, 
object to receiving such calls.  In case organisations remain unclear on 
their obligations, the  ICO operates a telephone  helpline. ICO 
communications about previous enforcement action where businesses 
have  not complied with  PECR are also readily available. 

62.  Where it is able to  identify the organisation  making  the calls,  it is 
standard practice of the TPS to  contact that organisation on each 
occasion a complaint is made. The Commissioner has evidence that 
CAL was sent a  notification from the TPS on or after  12 July 2021 for 
one  of the complaints  made  in this case. The direct correspondence 
from TPS should have made  CAL  aware of the risk that  such 
contraventions may occur  and  was indeed occurring. 

63. 

It is therefore reasonable to suppose that CAL should have been aware 
of its responsibilities in  this area. 

64.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider  whether CAL 

failed to take reasonable  steps to  prevent  the contravention. Again, he 
is satisfied that this condition is met. 

1 7  

65.  The  Commissioner's direct marketing guidance  makes clear that 

ICO. 

Information  Comimissioner's Office 

organisations acquiring/utilising  marketing lists from a third party  must 
undertake rigorous checks to satisfy themselves that the personal data 
was obtained fairly and lawfully,  that their details  would be  passed 
along for  direct marketing to the specifically named organisation in the 
case of live calls,  and that they  have the necessary notifications for the 
purposes of regulation 21(4). It is  not acceptable to rely on assurances 
given by third party suppliers without undertaking proper due 
diligence. 

66.  Reasonable steps in these circumstances may also  have included. 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

Taking  action to  review its processes  and compliance of its direct 
marketing upon receipt of correspondence from the TPS; 
Screening numbers against the TPS  registeri; 
Keeping up to date  with all the rules that apply to  the industry; 
Reviewing the  Commissioner's  PECR  guidance which  is availablle 
online free of  chargei; 
Utilising the  Commissioner's business support helpline that can 
be called free  of charge;  and 
Providing sufficient supervision of CAL staff. 

67. 

Given the  volume of  calls  [and complaints],  it is  clear that CAL failedl  to 
take those  reasonable steps. 

68.  The  Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition  (b) from section 

SSA ( 1 )  DPA is met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

69.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  foillowing  aggravating 

features of  this casei: 

1 8  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Ottice 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

CAL targeted  vulnerable individuals; 
Calls were misleading  and, in some cases, threatening; 
Repeated  calls  were  made  to  the  same  individuals,  despite  the 
individual informing the caller they were not interested; 
Evidence of individuals becoming distressed on the call; 
Complaints  from  individuals  that  CAL  were  withdrawing  money 
from  individuals' bank accounts without full consent; 
Use of spoof numbers; 
Evidence of financial gain;  and 
the 
Continued  attempts  to  debit  bank  accounts  despite 
transactions  being  blocked  by  the  bank  or  objected  to  by 
individuals. 

70.  The Commissioner has not identified  any mitigating features in this 

case. 

71. 

For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 
conditions from section  SSA ( 1)  DPA have been met in  this case.  He is 
also satisfied that the procedural  rights  under section 55B have been 
complied with. 

72.  The latter has included  the issuing of  a  Notice of Intent, in which the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching  his  final 
view, the Commissioner  has received  no  representations from CAL. 

73.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a  monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

74.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances,  he 

should exercise his discretion so  as to  issue a  monetary penalty. 

1 9  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

75.  The Commissioner has attempted to consider the likely impact of  a 

monetary penalty on CAL but has  been unable to do so  given the lack 

of recent publicly available information.  CAL was invited to  provide 
financial representations in response  to the  Notice of Intent but faile1d 
to  do so.  The Commissioner  considers in the  circumstances that  a 

penalty remains the appropriate course of  action. 

76.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective i n  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice  is  to  promote compliance with  PECR.  The making  of 

unsolicited direct marketing calls is  a  matter of sig nificant  public 

concern .  A monetary  penalty  in this  case  should act as a general 

encouragement towards compliance  with the law,  or at least as a 

deterrent against  non -compliance,  on  the part of all persons running 

businesses currently  engaging  in these  practices. This is an opportunity 

to reinforce the  need for businesses to ensure that they are only 

telephoning  consumers who are  not  registered  with  the TPS  and/or 

specifically  indicate  that they do not object to receiving  these calls. 

77. 

In making  his  decision,  the Commissioner has also had regard to  the 

factors set out in s108(2)(b) of  the Deregulation Act 2015;  including: 

the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance,  including 

the  risks to economic growth;  the steps taken  by  the  business to 

achieve  compliance and reasons  for its failure;  the willingness and 

ability of the  business to  address  non-compliance;  the likely impact of 

the  proposed intervention on the business,  and the likely  impact of the 

proposed intervention on the wider business  community,  both in  terms 

of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 

businesses. 

78. 

For these reasons,  the  Commissioner has  decided to  issue a monetairy 

penalty in this  case. 

20 

The amount of  the penalty 

co. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

79.  Taking into account all  of  the above, the Commissioner has decided 
£200,000  (two hundred  thousand 

that a 
pounds)  is reasonable and proportionate given the particular facts of 
the case and the underlying objective in imposing the penalty. 

in the sum of 

penalty 

Conclusion 

80.  The  monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner's office by 
BACS  transfer or cheque by 1 September 2023 at the latest. The 
monetary penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but  will be paid into 
the Consolidated  Fund which is the Government's general bank account 
at the  Bank of England. 

81. 

If the Commissioner  receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
31 August 2023 the Commissioner will  reduce the monetary penalty 
by 20% to  £160,000 (One hundred  and sixty thousand  pounds:). 
However, you should be aware that the early payment discount is not 
available if you decide to  exercise your right of appeal. 

82.  There is a  right of  appeal  to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

against: 

(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 
and/or; 
(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 

notice. 

2 1  

• 

Information Com missioner's Office 

1 

• 

83.  Any notice  of appeal  should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

84. 

Information about appeals is set  out  in Annex 1. 

85.  The Commissioner  will not take action to enforce  a monetary  penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period specified  within the notice within  which a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has  expired and all or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been paid; 

•  all relevant appeals against the monetary  penalty notice and any 

variation of it have either been decided or  withdrawn;  and 

•  the period for appealing against the  monetary  penalty  and any 

variation of  it  has expired. 

86. 

In  England,  Wales and  Northern Ireland,  the monetary  penalty is 

recoverable  by  Order of the County  Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland,  the  monetary  penalty  can  be  enforced  in the same manner as 

an  extract  registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for  execution 

issued by the  sheriff court of any sheriffdom in  Scotland. 

Dated the 2 day of August 2023. 

Signe 

Andy  Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 

2 2  

Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

ICO. 

Information C omrnlssloner's Office 

23 

ANNEX 1 

ICO. 

lnfOfmallon Commiss oner's OHice 

i 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA  PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIG HTS  OF  APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONEIR 

Section 55B(S) of the Data  Protection Act  1998 gives any person 

1. 
upon whom  a monetary penalty notice  has been served a right of 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the 'Tribunal') 
against the notice. 

2. 

If  you decide  to  appeal  and if the Tribunal considersi:-

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

a) 
accordance  with the law; or 

to the extent that the notice involved  an exercise of 

b) 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to  have exercised 
his discretion differently, 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision a:s 
could have been  made by the Commissioner.  In  any other case the 
Tribunal will disimiss  the appeal. 

You may bring an  appeal  by  serving  a  notice of appeal on the 

3. 
Tribunal  at the following  address: 

Geneiral  Regulatory Chamber 
HM Courts  & Tribunals Service 
PO Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl 8DJ 

24 

ICO. 

Information Corn m ssioner·s Office 

1

i 

Telephone:  0203 936 8963 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The notice of appeal  should be sent so it is received by the 

Tribunal within 28  days of the  date of the notice. 

b) 

If  your  notice of  appeal  is  late  the Tribunal will not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended  the time for  complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The notice of appeal should  state:-

a) 

your name  and address/name and  address of your 

representative (if any); 

b)  an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address of the Information  Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you are  seeking; 

f) 

the g rounds on which you rely; 

g) 

you must provide with the notice of  appeal a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 

h) 

if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 

notice of appeal  must include  a request for an extension of time 

and  the  reason why  the  notice  of appeal was not provided in 
time. 

ICO. 

Information ComrnlsS1oner's OHice 

Before deciding w hether or not to  appeal you may wish to consult 

5. 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by  any person 
whom he  may appoint for  that purpose. 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the  First-tier 

6. 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(S) of, and 
Schedule  6  to, the Data  Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No.  1976 ( L.20)). 

