
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/11/2019
                                From license plate recognition to artificial intelligence - results of the 98th data protection conference At its extremely fruitful 98th meeting on November 6th and 7th, 2019 in Trier, the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities (data protection conference) passed a number of resolutions and decisions.
The spectrum of topics ranged from criticism of a mass automated recording of license plates to recommendations for the data protection-compliant use of artificial intelligence, for which a position paper was adopted in specification of the "Hambach Declaration" of April 2019.
Another focus was the health sector. In view of the associated risks, the data protection conference calls for ensuring that patient data is protected according to the state of the art, regardless of the size of medical facilities. Health websites and apps must also meet their users' expectations of confidentiality and comply with certain requirements when passing on personal data. For the use of messenger services in the hospital sector, technical requirements were compiled in a "white paper" that should serve as a basis for further discussions.
Version 2.0 of the standard data protection model was also published.
With regard to the data protection issues associated with language assistance systems and panorama services and the requirements for ensuring appropriate digital sovereignty, the conference issued audit assignments to the relevant working groups.
The conference decided on various procedural regulations to improve coordination and cooperation with the European supervisory authorities.
In addition, the conference decided on a field report on the application of the General Data Protection Regulation, which is intended to contribute to the preparation of a report at European level.
In connection with the automated transmission of so-called telemetry data for Windows operating system and application solutions, the conference subsequently held high-level discussions with representatives from Microsoft. The aim is to reduce the personal reference of usage data or to allow users to decide whether to transfer it. In this context, the data protection conference published a test scheme for the Windows 10 operating system, which gives those responsible the opportunity to evaluate data protection-related issues in connection with the use of the software, the transmission of telemetry data and the update configuration.
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann drew the following conclusion from this year's Rhineland-Palatinate presidency of the Data Protection Conference: "The extensive agendas of the 98th Data Protection Conference and the previous ones show once again that the ongoing digitization raises data protection issues in almost all areas of life. The data protection officers are faced with the challenge of recognizing relevant developments at an early stage and introducing data protection in such a way that risks are countered and opportunities are not missed. I am therefore pleased that in the year of the Rhineland-Palatinate presidency of the conference, it was possible to develop appropriate recommendations for the future topic "Artificial Intelligence".
Further information: Resolution "Recommendations for a data protection-compliant design of AI systems" DSK position paper on recommended technical and organizational measures in the development and operation of AI systems Resolution "Health care facilities must ensure the protection of patient data regardless of their size" Resolution "Health websites and health apps - no transfer of sensitive data to unauthorized third parties! Resolution "No mass automated recording of license plates for law enforcement purposes!" Data protection in Windows 10"
                                return
                            



