 

press release

 

Indicative assessment of

Microsoft 365 Privacy Conference

 

 

Erfurt, November 26, 2022

 
The TLfDI, Dr. Lutz Hasse, points to the trend-setting evaluation of the data
Protection Conference (DSK) towards Microsoft 365:
 

1. The DSK accepts the report of the DSK working group "Microsoft-Online-

services” and its summary.
 

2. The DSK provides with reference to the summary of the report
states that the proof of those responsible, Microsoft 365 data protection
to operate in a legally compliant manner, on the basis of the Microsoft
provided "Data protection addendum of September 15, 2022".
can be. As long as the necessary transparency about the
Processing of personal data from order processing for
Microsoft's own purposes not established and their legality
is not proven, this proof cannot be provided.

 

3. For an in-depth evaluation of the discussion results, the DSK provides the
attached summary of the working group results available
tion

 
Here is a brief explanation: The assessment of the data protection conference is turning
not directly to Microsoft, but to those responsible and states that these
Microsoft 365 cannot be used in compliance with data protection law. Why? The Ver-
According to Art. 5 Para. 2 DS-GVO, those responsible must be able to prove that Microsoft
365 can be used transparently and lawfully. But they can't
as long as Microsoft, according to its own records, has personal information (from
whom?) for their own purposes (which ones?) and no further comments about this
gave power. An example: If a school management as responsible
cannot inform the parents and the teaching staff whether when using
data of children or teachers are processed by Microsoft 365 and
if so, for what purposes, then the parents and teachers cannot
informed (see Art. 4 No. 11 DS-GVO) consent and the corresponding information
The principal cannot fulfill his obligations (Art. 13 GDPR). nevertheless
Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
Consent given would be ineffective and therefore there would be no legal basis
for the responsible school management (see Art. 6 Para. 1 DS-GVO), the data with Microsoft
365 to be allowed to process. In addition, against this background, the person responsible
do not instruct the processor (Microsoft) to use the data in a specific way
to process or not to process, as long as Microsoft reserves the right
To process data for own purposes - a violation of Art. 28 DS-GVO. Added
come the questions of data transfer to the USA.
 
dr Lutz Hasse: "First of all, I am pleased with the positive response at the data protection
renz. My supervisory authority will now - like the other data protection supervisory authorities -
also – with those responsible in the public and non-public area
seek contact to discuss a proportionate implementation of this legal situation.
Here, temporal aspects and alternative paths are the subject of discussion
be."
 
 

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

