1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00150/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated September 7, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of an exterior camera with alleged
orientation towards public space” (folio nº1).

Together with the claim, it provides several photographs (Annex Doc. I, II and III) that
prove the installation of a camera installed in the exterior window of a terrace
oriented in principle towards public space.

SECOND: On 10/17/19 and 02/17/20, the claim was TRANSFERRED
to the denounced party, so that he could allege in law what he deems appropriate, without
no statement has been made in this regard.

THIRD: On June 17, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: The database of this body was consulted on 09/04/20, no
There is no allegation regarding the facts that are the subject of the complaint.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 09/07/19 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“existence of a video-surveillance camera outside a balcony, with

orientation towards public space” (folio nº1).

The complainant provides a copy of the Burofax sent to the accused,
expressing his disagreement with the presence of the camera, which he considers
is misoriented.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Also with this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of space
public, as this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the
Condition.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The camera can fulfill a dissuasive function for housing protection,
while making sure not to get images from public/private third party space
without justified cause.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has a camera of
video-surveillance oriented towards public space, without just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

The installation of video surveillance cameras in the street corresponds only and
exclusively to the State Security Forces and Bodies in compliance
of security features.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the

claimed, for violation of article 5.1 c) RGPD.

The "evidence" provided confirms the presence of the device in question,
as well as the orientation towards public space without just cause, considering the
sufficient to prove the administrative infraction described.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

The denounced party must report the technical characteristics of the
installed camera or documentary evidence of the removal of its current place of
location, arguing everything necessary to prove the legality in your case
installation (eg screen print, orientation, reason for installation, poster
informative, etc.)

In case of persisting in the behavior described, the facts can be transferred to
the State Security Forces and Bodies (vgr. Local Police) to verify
documents the facts, and may, where appropriate, be the subject of a new
procedure by this Agency.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Don B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
Warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE the accused, so that according to art. 58.2 d) GDPR,
legalize the situation described by proceeding to reorient the camera towards space
Exclusively exclusive, accrediting such end before this Agency in legal form.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. and REPORT the
result of the performances to Don A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

