  

  

The ICO exists to empower you through information.  

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF  
T. 0303 123 1113 ico.org.uk  

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA  

PROTECTION REGULATION  

REPRIMAND  

  

23 August 2023  

TO: Gloucester City Council  

OF: Civic Suite 

North Warehouse 

The Docks 

Gloucester 

GL1 2EP 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to  
Gloucester City Council in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation (‘UK GDPR’) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.  
  

The Reprimand  

The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Gloucester City 
Council in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR:  

  

•  Article 32(1)(b) which states that organisations must have 

appropriate technical and organisational measures in place,  
appropriate to the risk of their processing, including the ability to  
ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and  
resilience of processing systems and services.   
  

•  Article 32(1)(c) which states that organisations must have 

appropriate technical and organisational measures in place, 

   

 

 

appropriate to the risk of their processing, including the ability to 
restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely 
manner in the event of a physical or technical incident.  
  

•  Article 32(1)(d) which states that organisations must have 

appropriate technical and organisational measures in place, 
appropriate to the risk of their processing, including a process for 
regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of 
technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of  
the processing.  

  

  

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  

  

Lack of appropriate logging and monitoring systems  
  

As noted in the post-incident forensic report, Gloucester City Council did 
not have a centralised logging system or SIEM in place. This significantly 
restricted Gloucester City Council’s ability to effectively monitor and 
respond to security incidents, detect anomalous activities, and identify 
potential threats.  

Implementing technical and organisational measures to detect and 
respond to incidents is a key aspect of cyber security, and there is 
significant guidance available on logging and monitoring best practice. For 
example, the NCSC provides guidance on logging and monitoring 
systems, stating that “Collecting logs is essential to understand how your 
systems are being used and is the foundation of security (or protective) 
monitoring. In the event of a concern or potential security incident, good 
logging practices will allow you to retrospectively look at what has 
happened and understand the impact of the incident. Security monitoring 
takes this further and involves the active analysis of logging information 
to look for signs of known attacks or unusual system behaviour, enabling 
organisations to detect events that could be deemed as a security 
incident, and respond accordingly in order to minimise the impact”. As 
part of this guidance, the NCSC recommend that organisations should 

  

   

 

 

“Consider which logs [they] want to draw into a centralised location for 
analysis”   

Additionally, following the ransomware attack, it became apparent that 
the threat actor had successfully deleted logs, erasing crucial evidence 
and hindering both Gloucester City Council’s investigation and 
remediation of the incident. This also prevented early detection of the 
incident through the log review process that Gloucester City Council had 
in place with a third party supplier. Industry standards and best practice 
cover the requirement that logs be protected from tampering – for 
example the NCSC recommends that organisations should “Protect [their] 
logs from tampering so that is it hard for an attacker to hide their tracks 
and you can be confident that they accurately represent what has 
happened”. GCC failed to prevent such tampering and, when combined 
with the lack of centralised logging systems or appropriate log review 
processes, this hindered Gloucester City Council’s ability to detect and 
recover from this incident.  

The Commissioner considers that a SIEM, or an alternative measure that 
would have improved Gloucester City Council’s ability to effectively detect 
and quickly mitigate security incidents, along with appropriate 
considerations on how to protect logs from tampering would have been 
appropriate security measures for Gloucester City Council to implement 
proportionate to the risk of their processing activity.  
  

Failure to implement measures and test, assess and evaluate the 
effectiveness of security technical and organisational measures 
for ensuring the security of processing.  
  

During the post-incident response, the Commissioner considers that 
Gloucester City Council did not restore access to personal data, or the 
systems that stored personal data, in a timely manner. Additionally, 
Gloucester City Council were unable to determine the data subjects at risk 
of harm from the incident in order to notify them.  

During our investigation, it was noted that the process Gloucester City 
Council followed to access and review impacted data – in order to 
determine what categories of personal data had been compromised and 
which data subjects were at risk – was reliant on ad-hoc systems and 

  

   

 

 

processes through, for example, downloading data through the home WiFi 
networks of Gloucester City Council employees. There is limited evidence 
to suggest that Gloucester City Council had appropriate technical or 
organisational measures in place to respond to the incident, restore 
impacted data and identify risks to specific data subjects.  

Article 32(1)(C) of the UK GDPR states that organisations should have 
appropriate measures in place to restore access to personal data in the 
event of an incident. Article 32(1)(d) further suggests that measures 
should be regularly tested to evaluate the effectiveness of such measures, 
and Recital 87 of the UK GDPR provides additional context into 
considerations the Commissioner makes on the notification to data 
subjects, stating “It should be ascertained whether all appropriate 
technological protection and organisational measures have been 
implemented to establish immediately whether a personal data breach 
has taken place and to inform promptly the supervisory authority and the 
data subject”. In this incident, Gloucester City Council did not recover 
access to personal data in a timely manner, were unable to determine 
which individual data subjects were at risk as a result of the incident, and 
did not demonstrate an appropriate process to identify and analyse 
impacted data in order to aid in these areas of their incident response.  

During the investigation, it was considered whether Gloucester City 
Council had an appropriate incident response process documented, along 
with appropriate information and asset classification documents that 
would have aided in the identification and recovery of impacted personal 
data. Whilst evidence was provided to show that some documentation and 
processes were in place in this regard, correspondence from Gloucester 
City Council on 25 May 2022 stated that the methodologies they had in 
place – whilst sufficient for smaller breaches – were not sufficient for this 
incident.  

Considering the 25 May 2022 correspondence and the ad-hoc incident 
response and data analysis process observed during our investigation, the 
Commissioner considers that Gloucester City Council did not appropriately 
implement technical and organisational measures that would have aided 
in the recovery of personal data and mitigation of risks to data subjects. 
We further note that this had a knock-on effect on Gloucester City 
Council’s Article 34 compliance, requiring notification of data subjects 
without undue delay, and was a contributing factor in Gloucester City 

  

   

 

 

Council not issuing Article 34 notifications until 17 months after their 
initial breach report to the Information Commissioner’s Office.  

  

Mitigating factors  

In the course of our investigation we have additionally noted that:  

•  Gloucester City Council did have backup systems in place. Backup 

systems are recognised as a key technical measure to aid in the 
timely recovery of access to personal data, and the Commissioner 
considers Gloucester City Council’s backups as evidence that 
Gloucester City Council were taking steps to comply with Article 
32(1)(c). However, these backups were not utilised in favour of a 
full rebuild of Gloucester City Council’s systems – which significantly 
impacted the timeline for recovery of access to personal data.  
  

•  The initial attack vector for this incident was a phishing email 

received from a legitimate third-party email address. No specific 
vulnerabilities, either through outdated systems or otherwise, were  
found to have contributed to the threat actor gaining initial access  
to Gloucester City Council’s systems.  
  

•  Gloucester City Council did have some systems in place for  

gathering and reviewing logs, for example through regular reviews  
from a third-party supplier of logs generated by Gloucester City   
Council’s systems. Whilst this has been considered as evidence that   
Gloucester City Council took some steps to comply with Article  
32(1)(b), the logging and monitoring systems were not considered  
to be adequate or proportionate to the risk of Gloucester City  
Council’s processing.  

  

Remedial steps  

The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Gloucester City Council in the light of this incident. In particular, 
the implementation of a SIEM following the incident to improve 
Gloucester City Council’s Article 32(1)(b) compliance and the other 

  

   

 

 

security hardening measures that have been undertaken, such as those 
outlined in Gloucester City Council’s correspondence to the Information 
Commissioner’s Office dated 14 March 2023.  

  

Decision to issue a reprimand  

Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to Gloucester City Council in relation to the 
infringements of Article 32 of the UKGDPR set out above.  

  

Further Action Recommended  

The Commissioner recommends that Gloucester City Council take certain 
steps to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to 
Article 32 of the UK GDPR, the following steps are recommended:  

  

1.  In order to improve compliance with Article 32(1)(d) of the UK 

GDPR, ensure that Gloucester City Council’s technical and 
organisational measures – including those introduced as 
postincident remedial measures – are regularly tested and there is 
a documented process in place for evaluating, and improving, the 
effectiveness of these measures  
  

2.  Perform a full review of Gloucester City Council’s backup and 

disaster recovery measures. Including both technical and 
organisational measures in place to restore access to personal data, 
understand what personal data has been impacted during an 
incident and demonstrate compliance with Article 32(1)(c) if a  
future incident occurs. Any processes already in place should be 
reviewed to ensure they are sufficient in large incidents that pose a 
risk to data subjects through confidentiality, availability or integrity 
issues. Processes to test recovery systems and evaluate their 
effectiveness should also be considered and implemented where 
appropriate.  
  

   

 

 

3.  Review Gloucester City Council’s records of processing and asset 

registers to ensure there is a concrete understanding of what 
personal data is being processed, which systems store personal 
data and the risks posed by a breach of confidentiality, integrity or 
availability for the personal data being processed. This should aim 
to ensure, in the event of a future incident, Gloucester City Council 
can quickly and confidently understand what personal data is at risk 
given the impacted systems and aid in Article 32(1)(c) and Article 
34 compliance  

  

  

Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation. We now consider the matter closed.  

Yours sincerely,  

William Poole  

Principal Cyber Investigation Officer  

Information Commissioner’s Office  

0330 313 1760  

Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we 
exchange with third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal 
with, including the General Data Protection Regulation, the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can 
read about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).   

We prioritise our investigations according to the likely impact of our 
actions, including considering the risks, harm and opportunities to 
improve compliance; alignment with our strategic priorities, including 
considering whether we are best placed to act or should work in 
collaboration with others; the likelihood of successful regulatory outcomes 
consistent with achieving our aims; and the resources we will require to 
achieve those outcomes.   

As such, we aim to complete all our investigations as quickly as possible, 
and will keep you updated on how we are doing. Our target is to complete 
95% of our investigations within 365 days. We report on our progress on 
our website at: Our performance | ICO  

  

   

 

 

The ICO publishes the outcomes of its investigations. Examples of 
published data sets can be found at this link (https://ico.org.uk/aboutthe-
ico/our-information/complaints-and-concerns-data-sets/).   

Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential. You should also say why so that we can take that into 
consideration. However, please note that we will only withhold information 
where there is good reason to do so.  

For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy 
notice at www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice   

  

