1/14

 File No.: EXP202206705

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 14, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202206705

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated May 19,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
forward, the claimed party or Vodafone). The reasons on which the claim is based
are the following:

The claiming party states that on May 9, 2022 the claimed party
provided, without your consent, a duplicate of your SIM card to a third party other than the
owner of the line, which has led said third party, using the codes of
bank confirmation received on the affected telephone line, you have accessed your
bank account making unauthorized charges.

Along with the claim, the following is provided:

Screenshot related to the interaction carried out by the claimed party, in relation to
with the duplicate SIM card.

Copy of the complaint filed with the Police on May 10, 2022.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

Copy of the invoice issued by the claimed party, on May 10, 2022, regarding the
duplicate SIM card.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on June 20, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On July 20, 2022, this Agency received a written response from
Vodafone stating:

"A letter has been sent to the claimant through which we have proceeded to
inform you of the steps that were carried out by Vodafone to solve
the incidence.

In addition, they point out that the incident originated, as indicated by the claimant,
because on May 9, 2022 a duplicate SIM was made on your mobile line
***PHONE.1 without your consent. This change was managed
by making a call to the Vodafone call center. In this sense, once
informed my client of the existence of a duplicate SIM obtained
Without the consent of the claimant, on May 10, 2022, Vodafone proceeded to
take all necessary steps to return control to the claimant
on your mobile line. In this regard, on the same day, May 10, 2022, the claimant
went to a Vodafone store where, after identifying himself, they processed a new
duplicate SIM and control over your mobile line was returned to you.

Likewise, Vodafone declared what happened as a fraudulent act on the 11th of
May 2022. Following the declaration of fraud, Vodafone proceeded to implement all
the necessary additional security measures by activating the victim check of
fraud on your Vodafone customer ID to prevent this incident from happening again
produce in the future and activated a pop-up window in your customer file in which
all Vodafone employees were informed of the following: “Do not provide
information, make modifications, product activation, orders, etc., if the client
calls from lines other than those you have contracted with Vodafone, concealment of
international call or origin. You should always consult and follow the policy of
security".

This part wants to point out that the effective management of a change of SIM card entails
the overcoming of the security policies that Vodafone has implemented in order to
prevent fraudulent practices on the personal data of their
customers. In this sense, and having processed said management subject to said policy
security, my client understood at all times that they were
lawful, real and truthful efforts.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Vodafone works continuously to improve the Security Policies for its
SIM change and duplicate processes, as well as for any other process that
entails possible risks of fraud or irregular actions for our clients.

In this sense, since March 14, 2012, Vodafone acts under the Policy
Security for the Contracting of Individuals, which has been updated
progressively, and whose last modification has been implemented on the 4th of
January 2022. Through said Security Policy, my client establishes what
type of information must be required from the client for each requested management. In addition,
It is included how to proceed in the event that a user does not pass the Privacy Policy
Security, as well as preventive actions in fraud situations. The
aforementioned Security Policy is mandatory for all
Vodafone After-Sales Services, who are in charge of applying and respecting it.

With regard to SIM card duplicates, it should be noted that the objective of
Vodafone is that all duplicates or card changes are made
face-to-face, since it is the safest way to guarantee that processes do not take place
irregular or fraudulent and that, when the management to be carried out requires overcoming the
Security Policy, the client must carry their original ID

To carry out a SIM change by telephone, it is necessary to carry out and
exceeding the Vodafone Security Policy for such scenarios. Bliss
Policy provides for three specific scenarios for which the change of card will proceed
SIM by telephone: (i) in those cases in which the platform in charge of
the management of the change of the SIM card fails in such a way that the
SIM change in our stores; (ii) if the client is a company and therefore prefers to make
the change from platform 129/1442, sending in these cases the SIM card to the
address of the company that appears in our systems; and (iii) if the client is
prepaid and therefore the SIM card can be sent in cases of failure,
loss/theft, incidence in the store and by customer request.

Likewise, and prior to verifying whether the applicant is under
the scope of the three previous cases, the Customer Service Department of
Vodafone, in accordance with said Security Policy, must invite you to attend
to manage the change of SIM before a Vodafone After-Sales Service (“SPV”) to
give the maximum guarantee of security to the process. In case the client is
find yourself in one of the three scenarios considered above, the
Vodafone Customer Service Department will check prior to
SIM change management that none of the following circumstances exist:
(i) there must not be any change of address in the last month; (ii) there must not have been
requested previous SIM card shipments.

It should be noted that, in accordance with our Security Policies, the
Compliance with any of the two previous requirements will lead to the need to
process the SIM change in person at our stores. In those cases
in which the applicant meets the requirements of the preceding paragraphs, the
SIM change processing will depend on the following: (i) if the applicant calls
from the same number for which you are going to request the SIM change, you will be asked for the
access code of the Customer Service or DNI; however, (ii) if the client
does not call from the same number, the telephone number associated with the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

SIM (“MSISDN”) together with the Customer Service access code or
ID.

Additionally, it should be noted that all employees in the Department of
Customer Service have received training on the steps to follow to carry out
SIM changes, through the guide available to all agents on the portal
called "REDPLANET", which includes all the processes and procedures
of Vodafone that are applicable to them and the steps to follow in each case, according to the
circumstances.

In any case, if the processing of a SIM change and/or a change of ownership
exceed the previous Vodafone Security Policies, the
carrying out such procedures in accordance with what is indicated in said Policies, when considering
I represented the change as authentic, real and truthful. Not being able to represent me
knowing that a third party stole the claimant's data without their consent. Without
Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of May 10, 2022, my client carried out
take the appropriate steps in order to protect the claimant as a client of
Vodafone. In this sense, my client, at the request of the interested party, proceeded to
declare what happened as a fraud, adopting the appropriate measures of
security on your account, and to solve the different incidents that occurred with
regarding the SIM card of the affected line.

Likewise, the claimant was reimbursed the amount of 5 euros for
of duplicate SIM card expenses.

Therefore, by the time Vodafone was notified of this requirement, my
represented had already reestablished the services associated with the customer ID of the
claimant and control over his line. Likewise, the processes are being reviewed
to ensure compliance with the defined Security Policies or
Introduce the necessary changes when considered appropriate.

Specifically, my client is working on the continuous improvement of: • Review of
internal processes to ensure compliance with Security Policies and
verification controls that have been defined and incorporated, both in channel
face-to-face and by telephone, for duplicate SIM scenarios. • Reinforcements
periodic communication of Security Policies and verifications that have
been defined by Vodafone for SIM duplicates and that must be applied by
agencies, commercial stores and agents. • Sending periodic communications to the
face-to-face and telephone channel, as well as to the logistics operator, where it is alerted of the
detected risk scenarios, their characteristics and behavior patterns
to prevent new cases. • Application -if applicable-, of the Penalty Policy
existing for agents or distributors who make any duplicate or change of
a SIM card without having required the documentation or that they carry out any management
SIM change without following all the steps defined in the Security Policy.

Regarding the carrying out of transactions of the entity "BIZUM" of
fraudulent nature revealed by the claimant in his claim, it is
opportune to express that the change of a SIM card only implies access to the
telephone line associated with it, and not the bank details of the holder.

Therefore, it does not seem possible that there is a correlation between the events that occurred in
relationship with my client and what happened with the bank of which he is a client
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

the claimant. In this sense, the bank movements that he alleges in his
claim do not have their origin, nor have they been caused by invoices for
Vodafone services that he had contracted, but are due to accesses
made through your bank account.

For this reason, Vodafone cannot be responsible for the accesses and bank movements
that may have been made fraudulently. With all this, we can
confirm that currently my client has carried out all the actions
pertinent to solve the claim, estimating that it has been
correctly resolved prior to the receipt of this document”.

THIRD: On August 10, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In advance, it is necessary to point out that article 4.1 of the GDPR defines:
“personal data” as “any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

In this regard, it should be clarified that the card is inserted inside the mobile terminal.
SIM. It is a smart card, in physical format and small in size, which
contains a chip in which the service key of the subscriber or subscriber is stored
used to identify itself to the network, that is, the mobile telephone line number of the
MSISDN client (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network - Mobile Station of
the Integrated Services Digital Network-), as well as the personal identification number
IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) subscriber
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

Mobile Subscriber-) but can also provide other types of data such as the
information about the telephone list or the calls and messages list.

On the other hand, the issuance of a duplicate SIM card supposes the treatment of the
personal data of its owner since it will be considered an identifiable natural person any
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular
by means of an identifier (article 4.1) of the GDPR).

Therefore, the SIM card identifies a telephone number and this number in turn,
identifies its owner. In this sense, the CJEU Judgment in case C -
101/2001 (Lindqvist) of 6.11.2003, paragraph 24, Rec. 2003 p. I-12971: "The concept of
"personal data" using Article 3(1) of Directive 95/46
includes, according to the definition in Article 2(a) of said
Directive "all information about an identified or identifiable natural person". This
concept includes, without a doubt, the name of a person next to his telephone number or
to other information relating to their working conditions or hobbies”.

In short, both the data processed to issue a duplicate SIM card and the
SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module) that uniquely identifies
to the subscriber in the network, are personal data, and their treatment must be
subject
to data protection regulations.

Well then, the defendant is accused of committing an offense for violation of the
Article 6 of the GDPR, "Legacy of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the
cases in which the processing of third-party data is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years, "b)
The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

II

In the present case, it is proven that Vodafone provided a duplicate of the card
SIM of the claiming party to a third party, without their consent and without verifying the
identity of said third party, which has accessed information contained in the phone
mobile, such as bank details, passwords, email address and others
personal data associated with the terminal. Thus, the defendant did not verify the
personality of the person who requested the duplicate SIM card, did not take precautions
necessary for these events not to occur.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the
diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
a duplicate SIM card.

Well, it is accredited as recognized by the claimed party in its writ of
response to this Agency dated July 20, 2022, << that the incident was
originated, as indicated by the claimant, because on May 9, 2022 the
 ***PHONE.1 without your
made a duplicate SIM on your mobile line
consent. Said change was managed by telephone through a
Vodafone call center call. In this sense, once informed
of my principal the existence of a duplicate SIM obtained without the consent of the
claimant on May 10, 2022, Vodafone proceeded to carry out all those
steps necessary to return control to the claimant over their mobile line. In
In this regard, on the same day, May 10, 2022, the claimant went to a convenience store
Vodafone in which, after identifying himself, a new SIM duplicate was processed and he
returned control over his mobile line.

Likewise, Vodafone declared what happened as a fraudulent act on the 11th of
May 2022>>

However, it should be noted that Sim Swapping is a fraud that allows you to impersonate
identity by kidnapping the phone number by obtaining a duplicate of
the SIM card.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

In any case, the operator must be able to prove that for this specific case
have followed the verification protocols implemented when requesting a
duplicate SIM card.

Well then, the result was that the defendant issued the SIM card to a third party who did not
he was the owner of the line.

In view of the foregoing, Vodafone is unable to prove that this
procedure.

In the explanation provided by the claimed party, it does not indicate which could have
been the specific cause that led to the issuance of the duplicate, beyond
some generic explanations. In any case, Vdafone has not been able to prove
that for this case the procedure implemented by itself be followed, since
that, if they had done so, the refusal of the duplicate of the
SIM card.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the
diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
a duplicate SIM card.

In accordance with the evidence available at this procedural moment and
without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated that the
conduct of the claimed party could violate article 6.1 of the GDPR and may be
constituting the offense classified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation
2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

IV.

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
and corrective measures”:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose on the entity claimed as responsible for an infringement classified in the
article 83.5.a) of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating factors:

-

The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD).
   The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in which,
with respect to entities whose activity entails the continuous processing of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is
that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now
examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and abundant
handling of personal data must insist on rigor and exquisite
Be careful to comply with the legal provisions in this regard.”

As mitigations:

The claimed party proceeded to resolve the incident that is the subject of the claim
effective (art. 83.2 c).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of 70,000
€ for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in article 83.5.a) of the
cited GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in the
Article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned GDPR.
SECOND: APPOINT as instructor D. B.B.B. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
co of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, the sanction that would correspond would be a
fine for an amount of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros) without prejudice to what is
of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed other than a fine, may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction that should be imposed
in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand euros (€14,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition
of this sanction.
In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, in
accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

euros (€14,000), for the alleged offence. With the application of this reduction, the
amount of the sanction would be established at fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000) and
Your payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at forty-two thousand euros (€42,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.
In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated, 56,000 euros or 42,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On November 25, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to the
payment of the penalty in the amount of 56,000 euros using one of the two
reductions provided for in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not
The acknowledgment of responsibility has been accredited.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202206705, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

