 

State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

 

 

 
 

press release

dated September 25, 2018

 

Digitization only successful with data protection –

Saxony-Anhalt still has to catch up!

 
Today I gave my XIII. / XIV. Activity
submit report. the thirteenth Activity report covers the period from April 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015.
March 2017. The XIV activity report covers the period from April 1, 2017 to May 5
2018. The text for this entire period is available as State Parliament printed paper 7/3361.
 
The general report is the last according to the old legal situation. After the decision of the state
legislator, the state commissioner takes on the new tasks in accordance with the European
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in effect since May 6, 2018. The follow-up reports
will be created annually on the new legal basis of the GDPR.
 
The above The entire period was affected in a special way and to a large extent by the
based on the new European law that has been in force since May 2018 (see nos. 1.1, 3.1
and 13.2). The state commissioner acted in many ways as a consultant for the state government, for
Authorities, companies and associations, for the people in the country. The challenges
of the new law concerned both legal policy issues and legal practice
cal application aspects. Especially with topics from the field of economy
the report also provides information on the new legal situation according to DS-GVO.
 
The authority of the state commissioner is still heavily affected by the increase in tasks
says. The required staffing lagged behind. "I would like to thank all
office staff for their great work in preparation

2

to the GDPR," emphasizes the state representative with regard to the previously acquired
competencies and the information and assistance provided.
 
According to the European guidelines, the state representative has both awareness
and advisory tasks as well as authority to issue orders and impose sanctions. The new law
is a task and an opportunity at the same time. The state commissioner often acted as an adviser
for the purpose of enabling data processing. That data protection also
wall can contain is inevitable. However, e.g. B. an inventory analysis of the data
data processing in the company and compliance with the principle of data minimization
tion can lead to relief and competitive advantages in many areas. A smart one
Data protection also creates trust towards customers and consumers.
 
The focal points of the advisory activities of the authority of the state commissioner concerned -
ben the effects of European law –

• Amendments to the State Police Act (No. 6.2) and the establishment of the common
Competence and service center for police telecommunications
vigilance (No. 6.6),

• the school law and the education management system (nos. 9.2.2 and 9.2.3),
• the draft law on the state clinical cancer register and its operation

(No. 10.1.6),

• Checks in the area of online shops at pharmacies (No. 10.1.7), the self-assessment
arrivals from prospective tenants (No. 13.10) and video surveillance in bakeries
(No. 14.1.8),

• the examination of the specialist procedure for the central registration file at the IT service provider Data-

port (No. 4.6).

 
In addition to the tasks as a supervisory authority under European law, the state
also commissioned the developments and projects in the field of digitization of economic
society and society, for example in school education (cf. nos. 1.2, 4.12 and 9.2.5). The Ver-
media competence is a permanent task and was carried out by the state commissioner
reminded again (No. 9.2.4).
 

3

Human dignity and informational self-determination remain central standards in digital
age. Data protection is not an obstacle to digitalization, but is
more essential prerequisite for their success. Digitization is not an end in itself,
but serving means for the well-being of man. Here comes a data protection
through technology design, data protection impact assessments and encryption concepts
ten (cf. nos. 4.9 and 4.11) are of particular importance.
 
The state administration is not yet digitally modern. The state representative for
adds: “Saxony-Anhalt needs an up-to-date e-government strategy quickly. the
The draft of the e-government law needs to be adjusted with a view to more holistic
reliability and commitment. The municipal level must therefore be involved. A very-
A uniform approach also benefits data protection, for example by means of appropriate standards.”
(see No. 4.4) The Ministry of Finance seems to have finally recognized this. But still
there is no modernization push through the country (cf. also nos. 4.2 and 4.3).
 
As a conclusion of the report, the state commissioner states: "A strong independent supervisory
authority is the guarantor and impetus for effective data protection in the balance between
different interests in the further development of the digital society.”
 
The activity report is available on the website of the state commissioner and can be
can also be ordered by telephone or in writing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg, postal address: PF 1947, 39009 Magdeburg

Phone: 0391 81803-0, Fax: 0391 81803-33, FreeCall: 0800 9153190 (only landline DTAG)

www.datenschutz.sachsen-anhalt.de

www.informationsfreiheit.sachsen-anhalt.de
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

