1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00255/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00388/2019

In procedure PS/00255/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Doña A.A.A., given the complaint filed by Doña B.B.B. Y
under the following,

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. B.B.B. (*hereinafter, the claimant) on 08/10/18 filed
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by the
data processing carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system
whose owner identifies as the neighbor of the town A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
later the one claimed) installed in windows.

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the installation has been detected
of at least one video-surveillance camera facing the street, with the
same installed in the window of the accused, without having an information poster
(folio no. 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

installation of a video-surveillance device in the window of the property reviewed.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
denounced through the chambers to which the complaint refers, does not meet the
conditions imposed by the regulations on data protection, for which reason the
opening of this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD: On 10/03/18, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced so that he could allege what he deems appropriate in law, without
any statement has been made to this body for legal purposes
opportune.

FOURTH: On 07/31/19, a written statement is received from the accused party
stating the following:

“That the owner of the home, as well as the person responsible for installing the
camera corresponds to Don C.C.C., being the accused, mother of the one who
subscribes, so no responsibility can be attributed to it.

That on 11/09/18 and 07/14/19 he already proceeded to make allegations in

relation to the complaint filed.

That in response to the request made, I enclose photographs where
the camera is located, informing you that the purpose of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

itself was to focus on the door of my house in the face of the damage that was being
causing by Don D.D.D. (...) father of the complainant B.B.B., who
He has a restraining order against my mother.

Two convictions are attached regarding the father of the now
complainant, for damage caused to the door owned by Don C.C.C. and by
threats, as well as photographs in documents nº1, 2 and 3.

As Doc. n4, a supporting copy of the ownership of the home is attached to

name of Don C.C.C.

For these reasons, I REQUEST (...) that having presented this document together with
with the documents that accompany it, it is served to admit it and, by virtue of it, they are considered
made the allegations required at the beginning of the procedure (...)”.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 08/10/18, this Agency received a claim from the complainant
by means of which it transfers as main fact:

“…has detected the installation of at least one video-surveillance camera with
facing the street, being the same installed in the window of the accused,
without having an informative poster” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge, Mrs. A.A.A., who
acknowledges having a recording device for reasons of personal security, although
The person responsible for the custody of the images is the son of this Don C.C.C.

Third. It is proven that the reason for the installation is due to the reiteration of
acts of vandalism and even criminal acts carried out against his person/property by the
local neighbor—Don D.D.D..

In support of his claim, he provides a copy:

-Copy Sentence (Trial for crime XXX/2018 Doc. nº 1)—Minor Crime of

threats”.

-Copy Sentence (Trial on Minor Crimes YYYYYYY/2018) against Mr.
D.D.D., being convicted of a minor crime of property damage (art.
263 CP) “for spitting on the door of the person claimed”.

Fourth. There is evidence of the use of the images in court to
prove the authorship of criminal acts, serving as the basis for the conviction,
after the free assessment by the Judge ad hoc.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of entry date
08/10/18 through which the following facts are transferred "the installation of al
least one video-surveillance camera facing the street, the same being
install in the window of the accused, without having an informative poster (folio nº 1).

The facts described above may imply an affectation of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD, which provides:

“Personal data will be: c) adequate, pertinent and limited to the
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")".

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented
preferably towards their private space, not being able to obtain images of space
public, nor be oriented towards the same, counting on the distinctive mandatory
informative for the appropriate legal purposes.

The treatment of images in public places can only be carried out -if applicable and
prior compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and
Security Forces, unless the exception established in article 4.3 operates
of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of this Agency, which establishes: "the
cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces unless it is essential for the purpose of
surveillance that is intended, or is impossible to avoid because of the location of
those. In any case, any unnecessary data processing should be avoided.
for the intended purpose”

The individual responsible for the installation must be available to
certify before this Control Authority that it meets all the requirements
legal requirements, indicating where appropriate the reason for the installation.

The party denounced in the pleadings dated 07/31/19 acknowledges being
responsible for the installation of a single camera, installed due to conduct
criminal actions against the claimed person carried out by Don D.D.D.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

In support of his claim, he provides a copy of the Judgment (Trial for a crime
XXX/2018 Doc. No. 1)—Minor Crime of Threats” where it is considered proven the
existence of slight threats by the referenced.

A copy of the Judgment (Trial on Minor Offenses) is also provided.
YYYYYYY/2018) against Don D.D.D., himself being sentenced for a minor crime of
patrimonial damages (art. 263 CP) “for spitting on the door of the person claimed”.

The defendant has used the images to prove the authorship of the
facts, responsible result the referenced (father of the current claimant before
this organism).

It should be noted that this Agency has established its total rejection as a criterion
towards vandalism and/or criminal acts whatever their nature, carried out in
surreptitiously in the belief that they will have no consequences,
maintaining that a restrictive interpretation of the norm cannot suppose a double
punishment to the person affected by the described acts, who would otherwise be seen
devoid of any means to prove their authorship and responsibility.

Videographic evidence is admitted as evidence in our
legal system, so that its free assessment corresponds to the Judge of
Instruction closest to the scene.

In cases such as the one described, where there is more than one pronouncement
judicial, even a certain flexibility is allowed in the installation of this type of
devices, in order to avoid new criminal acts, provided that the images are
inform the State Security Forces and Bodies or Judge of
Instruction closest to the scene.

III

It should be noted that the installed camera is an ideal measure to avoid the repetition
of the behaviors described, given that otherwise it would be left in a situation of
total defenselessness of the claimed party, which would continue to suffer the attacks of the neighbor
identified as Don D.D.D.

Furthermore, despite establishing a restraining order for
temporary period of "three months" (Judgment 01/18/19) the aforementioned convicted,
insists on conduct contrary to the required legal parameters, attempting against
the private property of the accused, which justifies the maintenance of the device
and the possibility of directing it towards a public area, in fear of new acts
vandalism

The defendant must be able to enjoy her constitutional rights (freedom
of the person and the right to calm), as well as to personal tranquility in the
normal and orderly development of their lives, without being affected by behaviors
described.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

The claimant should be reminded that art. 7.1 CC, set one way
I express good faith as a rank of legal legal norm saying: "rights must
be exercised in accordance with the requirements of good faith.

The Judgment of the National Court of April 1, 2011, appeal 2223/2010, in its
Legal Foundation IV, last paragraph includes the following:

“The importance and significance of data protection regulations and the
relevance of the constitutional rights that are at stake, advise
that they do not put themselves at the service of particular quarrels that must be resolved in
different areas that should have relevance only in the domestic sphere that is
own and not an area such as jurisdiction. The seriousness involved in the exercise of
sanctioning power advises that mechanisms be put in place
corresponding administrative and jurisdictional procedures only when it is assumed that
produced a true violation of the fundamental right to data protection.
Such a circumstance does not occur in the present case.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the denounced system conforms to the
current legality, reason why it is appropriate to order the FILE of this
process.

According to what was stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- PROCEED to decree the FILE of this procedure, considering the
system proportionate to the intended purpose.

2.- NOTIFY this Agreement to Ms. A.A.A. and INFORM the party
plaintiff Doña B.B.B..

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

