




Joint press release
State Criminal Police Office and State Data Protection Officer warn of possible waves of cyber attacks on institutions and companies in the state and of attempts to defraud citizens







No.20220315
|
03/15/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

State Criminal Police Office and State Data Protection Officer warn of possible waves of cyber attacks on institutions and companies in the state and of attempts to defraud citizens
"Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, the risk of possible cyber attacks has increased," warns Heinz Müller, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information for Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania (LfDI M-V). "The Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) recognizes an increased threat situation for Germany and therefore continues to call on companies, organizations and authorities to increase their IT security measures," explains Müller. The MV State Criminal Police Office and the MV State Data Protection Officer also came to this conclusion. Even if no corresponding cyber attacks in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania have become known to the police so far, it cannot be ruled out that such attacks on companies, authorities or private individuals can also occur here.
“We therefore strongly recommend checking IT security. This includes in particular the creation of regular backups, the prompt import of current security updates and regularly raising employee awareness of how to deal with phishing emails, calls and also the topic of fake news," say Heinz Müller and Rogan Liebmann, directors of the LKA MV. Irrespective of the war, so-called phishing e-mails are still in circulation, in which attempts are made to persuade the addressee to enter or transmit access data, e.g. in the form of links and attachments in e-mails. “To protect your own data, this caution should always be exercised. Always be skeptical. If you are unsure whether the email is genuine, ask the sender, e.g. your local bank," says Heinz Müller.
"It is also to be expected that in the near future various forms of cyber attacks on citizens related to the situation in Ukraine can be expected, starting with scams in which the recipients are asked to be alleged victims to transfer money for an escape during the war, to false appeals for donations," says Rogan Liebmann, director of the LKA MV. "Please find out from your local towns and communities and from the welfare organizations where you can support," Liebmann concludes.
The BSI provides further information on protection against cyber attacks on its website.









                Back to overview









