1/11

 File No.: PS/00421/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 6, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against BANKINTER, S.A.
(hereinafter the claimed party). Once the start agreement was notified and after analyzing the
arguments presented, on May 24, 2022, the proposal for
resolution transcribed below:

<<

File No.: PS/00421/2021

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 12, 2021, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party),
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection against
BANKINTER, S.A. with NIF A28157360 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The motives
on which the claim is based are as follows:

On October 5, 2020, he learned, after the hearing
prior to a judicial proceeding, that her ex-partner had contributed in said act
a document issued by the claimed party, dated April 30, 2019, in which
he was informed of all the banking positions that he had in that banking entity.
claimant together with her mother and siblings and where she was not the owner except in
a checking account (in which you are a co-holder). Do you think you should not have received
this report containing sensitive and confidential account and position information
which has never been authorized, disclosing this data of extreme importance,
which is a flagrant violation of data protection regulations.
Provide a copy of the document, issued by Bankinter on April 30, 2019,
email dated 10/13/2020 addressed to the Bankinter manager asking for explanations and
response letter from customer service.
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification, was received in
dated May 7, 2021, as stated in the certificate in the file.

On June 4, 2021, this Agency received a response letter, in which
the respondent shows that the access by his ex-partner to the
Monthly Investment Portfolio Report that included information regarding the
claimant was due to a specific computer error, which had not occurred with
previously nor has it been reiterated until that date, which was resolved as soon as they had
knowledge, offering the appropriate explanations and apologizing for what
occurred and that in order to prevent incidents from occurring in the future
similar, have reviewed again all the technical measures implemented to
make sure that an incident like this does not happen again in the future.

THIRD: On August 10, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On April 6, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on April 13, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), and extended the term granted for
formulate allegations, the respondent filed a brief with allegations in which, in
synthesis, stated that access to the Report was due to a specific computer error
that affected the computer tool that restricted and blocked access to said
Reports, that it was an isolated computer error, which affected the data
of a very small number of people (and limited to those who
contained in the Report), which has appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure compliance with data protection regulations and, in
specifically, with the confidentiality of the information, that measures were taken
additional and reactive as soon as they become aware of the incident to end the
same, that all the technical measures implemented have been reviewed again
to ensure that an incident like this does not happen again, and request the
archive of this sanctioning procedure.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is recorded that on April 12, 2021, the complaining party filed
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, due to a violation
security of personal data.

SECOND: It is verified that the respondent submitted, on April 30, 2019, to
third person, a Monthly Investment Portfolio Report that included information
information relating to the claimant, without said disclosure of information having been con-
felt for this
THIRD: The respondent states that access to the Report was due to an error
punctual computer that affected the computer tool that restricted and blocked
access to said Reports.

Likewise, it states that it has proceeded to implement the corrective measures
adequate to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future.
 The
documentation provided is incorporated into the file.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

II

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
processing of personal data, since BANKINTER, S.A.
is a financial entity that, in order to offer a wide range of products and services
financial services, customer advice, aggregators, product simulators and a
wide variety of value-added services, performs personal data processing.
It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

“responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and
treatment god; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria
for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the States.
two members.
Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of se-
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or unlawful transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
In the present case, there is a security breach in the systems of the defendant,
categorized as a breach of confidentiality, which would have resulted in the
making available to a third party, a Monthly Investment Portfolio Report
that would have freely allowed access to data of the claimant and of some of his
relatives about the global vision of the evolution of their assets, profitability and risk
of the portfolio, graphs of distribution of assets by risk, currencies and geographical areas.
cas, composition of the portfolio and movements of its investments and therefore in a
violation of the principle of confidentiality in the processing of personal data by
part of the data controller. As proof of these manifestations the
claimant provided the documents referred to in the first antecedent
mere of this agreement.
According to GT29, a "Breach of confidentiality" occurs when there is
unauthorized or accidental disclosure of personal data, or access to
themselves.

As for the argument that it was an isolated computer error, which affected the
personal data of a very small number of people (and limited to
those that appear in the Report), is not a sufficient cause of justification or exculpation,
since those affected have been deprived of control over their data
personal.

In relation to this matter, article 32 of the RGPD establishes the following:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a)

a)

b)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

the ability to restore availability and access to personal data
promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

c) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

The aforementioned Reports were generated in such a way that only those involved in
the products that were included in said Reports could access them,
being blocked for other people, although said block failed after a year. Is
possibility supposes an added risk that has to be assessed and that increases the demand
of the degree of protection in relation to the security and safeguarding of the integrity and
confidentiality of these data.

In relation to this aspect, the respondent entity itself acknowledges the existence of the
security breach. Proof of this is that said Report stopped being generated in May
of 2019, at which time Bankinter made improvements through its website and,
since that date, customers can directly generate their own report of
portfolio, offering them various options to configure it, such as selecting the
date range or what positions they want to be included.
 
Consequently, the allegations must be dismissed, meaning that the
arguments presented do not distort the essential content of the infraction that
declared to have been committed, nor do they imply sufficient cause for justification or exculpation.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

“Article 5 Principles relating to processing:

1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In relation to this principle, Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR states that:

“[…]Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access
or unauthorized use of said data and of the equipment used in the treatment”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment.

In the specific case under examination, it is recorded that the respondent party sent, on the date
April 30, 2019, to a third party, a Monthly Investment Portfolio Report
that included information relating to the claimant, without such disclosure of information
I would have been consented to by him.
Indeed, as evidenced in the file, it is issued by the bank entity
caria and addressed to a third party, a document called "Monthly Report
of the Portfolio” that collected information from the claimant on the global vision of the
solution of your assets, return and risk of the portfolio, graphs of distribution of
assets by risk, currencies and geographical areas, composition of the portfolio and movement
cough of your investments.
On the other hand, the respondent party acknowledged the facts, stating to this Agency
that access by a third party outside the Monthly Investment Portfolio Report
that included information relating to the claimant was due to a one-time computer error.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

IV

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, supposes the commission of the
offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: "The acts and behaviors referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 72 of the LOPDGDD,
under the rubric of infractions considered very serious, it establishes the following: “1. In
Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

              a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 of the GDPR, transcribed above.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

v

Sanction

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-
allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives; i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
given previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or to certification mechanisms
approvals approved in accordance with article 42,
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the penalty for
infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, to the party claimed as responsible for the
cited infraction typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, it is appropriate to graduate the fine
taking into account as an aggravating circumstance:

Article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD: "The link between the offender's activity and the
personal data processing”. The activity of the defendant
requires continuous processing of personal data of both customers and users.
third parties.
Considering the exposed factors, the valuation that reaches the amount of the fine
is €70,000 for violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, regarding the violation
of the principle of confidentiality.

SAW

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to impose penalties", in article 28
under the heading “Responsibility”, the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

In the present case, from the solid evidence available in accordance with the
proven facts in this sanctioning procedure, it is accredited
infringement of the provisions of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD and considered very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
BANKINTER, S.A., with NIF A28157360, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of SEVENTY THOUSAND
EUROS (€70,000).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of this. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at FIFTY-SIX THOUSAND EUROS
(€56,000), and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this
reduction will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or
administrative appeal against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
banking CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept, the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must send the
proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is made clear to you.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.
RRR
INSTRUCTOR

926-050522

>>

SECOND: On May 31, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in
the motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00421/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANKINTER, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

968-230522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

