1/13

 File No.: PS/00165/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against GUUDJOB
WORLDWIDE S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00165/2022
IMI Reference: A56ID 191737- Case Register 303351

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim with the
Netherlands data protection authority. The claim is directed against
GUUDJOB WORLDWIDE S.L. (GUUDJOB) with NIF B86865979. The reasons on which
The claim is based on the following:

The complaining party states that they have tried to delete their personal data without
that he has been aware of this: he wrote a review on
AVIS, for which he had to create an account at GUUDJOB. After this, it was given
noticed that his review had been posted along with his full name, and tried to
that your personal information be deleted through the website itself and through emails
emails sent to ***USER.1@guudjob.com and privacidad@guudjob.com,
without having received an answer from GUUDJOB.

The claimant has provided the following documentation:

- Copy of email sent from the address ***USUARIO.2@gmail.com
(hereinafter, email of the complaining party) to privacidad@guudjob.com dated
May 10, 2020. In this email, the complaining party requests that its
data. In this email, there is a history of emails from March 27,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

2020, April 8, 2020 and May 6, 2020 sent from the party's email
claimant in which he requests that they indicate how he can delete his account; I don't know
appreciate who is the recipient of this mail history, although the first mail of the
history is a message sent by ***USER.1@guudjob.com indicating
how to reset password

- Copy of communication sent by the data protection authority of the Countries
Low to hi@guudjob.com, dated January 5, 2021, asking if you have
received the suppression request from the complaining party, when and requests the
evidence of what has been done with respect to that request for deletion; and request
receive a response until February 5, 2021.

SECOND: Through the "Internal Market Information System" (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to promote the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, the aforementioned claim was transmitted on the 6th
April 2021, and was given a date of entry registration at the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection (AEPD) on April 7, 2021. The transfer of this claim
to the AEPD is carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 56 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016,
Regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Treatment of
Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (hereinafter, GDPR),
taking into account its cross-border nature and that this Agency is competent to
act as the main supervisory authority, given that GUUDJOB has its registered office and
unique establishment in Spain.

The data processing that is carried out affects interested parties in various
Member states.
 According to the information incorporated into the IMI System, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 60 of the GDPR, acts as
"interested control authority", in addition to the data protection authority of
The Netherlands, the authorities of Italy, Estonia, Belgium, and the German authorities
of Hesse and Lower Saxony. All of them under article 4.22 of the GDPR, given that
Data subjects residing in these Member States are likely to be
substantially affected by the treatment object of this procedure.

THIRD: On June 1, 2021 in accordance with article 64.3 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and of the powers granted in article 58.1 of the GDPR, and of
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (LOPDGDD), having knowledge of the following points:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

In response to a request for information from this Agency, dated December 13,
September 2021, GUUDJOB provides, among other things, the following information:

1. Copy of the privacy policy published on the website
https://www.guudjob.com/ on the date of May 10, 2020 (which indicates that
its last update was on May 8, 2018), in which appears, among other things, the
Next information:

10.- EXERCISE OF RIGHTS
 
You can send a letter to Guudjob, to the address indicated in the header
of this Policy, or by sending an email to the address
privacidad@guudjob.com, attaching a photocopy of your identity document,
at any time and free of charge, to:

- Revoke the consents granted.

- Obtain confirmation about whether in Guudjob we are treating your data
personal.

- Access your personal data.

- Rectify inaccurate or incomplete data.

- Request the deletion of your data when, among other reasons, the data is no longer
are not necessary for the purposes for which they were collected.

- Obtain from Guudjob the limitation of the processing of your data when
meets any of the conditions set forth in the data protection regulations
data.

- Request the portability of your data in those cases provided for in the
normative.

- File a claim regarding the protection of your personal data
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at the address Calle de
Jorge Juan, 6, 28001 Madrid, when you consider that from Guudjob we have
violated your rights recognized by the applicable regulations on protection
of data.

2. Screenshot of the Information Systems Administration Panel
of GUUDJOB of a filter of "Users" by "EMAIL" that contains the email of the
complaining party appearing as a result "No Users have been found".

3. Screenshot of the Information Systems Administration Panel
of GUUDJOB from a filter of "Users" by "FULL NAME" that is equal to the name and
surnames of the complaining party appearing as a result "No
Found Users”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

4. Indication that the users who are deleted from the information systems of
GUUDJOB are blocked for a period of 12 months. This lock
is that users go to a list of deleted users for the purpose of
consultation for the resolution of doubts and disputes. It is also indicated that, by deleting
the data, when the 12-month period passes, there is no trace of any
communication. And a screenshot of the Administration Panel is provided
of the information systems of GUUDJOB of a filtering of "Deleted Users" by
"EMAIL" that contains the email of the complaining party appearing as a result
"No Deleted Users found."

5. Indication that, when deleting the data, no trace of the
communications, but that a communication has been sent to the complaining party
after receiving the request for information; and a copy of a
mail sent by a representative of GUUDJOB to the email of the complaining party,
with delivery time at 2:37 p.m., in which they indicate to the claimant that their
data was deleted more than a year ago and they regret not having sent the
response to your deletion request, which coincided with difficulties related to
covid.

SIGNIFICANT EVIDENCE FOR THE GRADUATION OF THE SANCTION:

Duration of the possible infraction: there is evidence that the
eighteen months from the time the cancellation is requested until the email is sent
communicating that the data has been deleted.

Recidivism due to the commission of infractions of the same nature as the facts in
issue: There is no evidence that proceedings have been resolved for violations of
GUUDJOB.

Linking the activity of GUUDJOB with the performance of data processing
of a personal nature: The development of the business activity carried out by the
entity requires continuous processing of personal data.

Nature and amount of damages caused: there is no evidence that any
caused specific economic damages by GUUDJOB.

Financial benefits obtained or losses avoided through the events in
question: They are not appreciated.

Total annual global business volume: According to consultation carried out in
https://monitoriza.axesor.es/ on March 30, 2022, GUUDJOB sales
WORLDWID, S.L., in the 2019 financial year was 317,467 euros and had 7 employees.

The claimed party has diligently regularized the situation: they have sent
communication to the complaining party informing him that his data was deleted.

The conduct of the affected party could have led to the facts in question: No.

GUUDJOB has spontaneously admitted his guilt: He has recognized that he
produced a human error.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

FIFTH: On April 18, 2022, the Director of the AEPD signed a proposal
draft decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. following the process
established in article 60 of the GDPR, on April 28, 2022, was transmitted through
of the IMI System this proposal and the interested authorities were informed that
they had four weeks from then to make their comments.

SIXTH: On June 7, 2022, the Director of the AEPD declared the expiration of
of the proceedings as more than twelve months have elapsed from the date of
admission to processing of the claim, and since the infringement had not prescribed, they opened
new investigation actions with the number AI/00244/2022, and incorporated
to these new actions the documentation in E/06404/2021.

 

SEVENTH: On June 8, 2022 from the General Sub-directorate of Inspection of
Data from this Agency was captured on the website https://archive.org/web/,
relative
Web
https://www.guudjob.com/privacidad_condiciones_de_uso on May 22, 2019 at
18:53 hours,
the website
https://www.guudjob.com/en/guudjob-policy-and-terms-of-use on January 10,
2020 at 3:21 p.m., obtaining, among other things, the following information:

  content of

relative to

content

page

  and

of

to the

the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the

policy

In
in
https://www.guudjob.com/privacidad_condiciones_de_uso on May 22, 2019 at
6:53 p.m. and on June 8, 2022 it is offered, among others, as a means to
exercise rights, the address privacidad@guudjob.com.

privacy

appears

that

of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the

policy

In
in
https://www.guudjob.com/en/guudjobpolicy-and-terms-of-use on January 10,
2020 at 3:21 p.m. is offered, among others, as a means to exercise rights,
the email address hi@guudjob.com.

privacy

appears

that

of

 

 

 

 

 

EIGHTH: On June 28, 2022, the Director of the AEPD adopted a project
decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Following the established process
in article 60 of the GDPR, on July 7, 2022 it was transmitted through the IMI system
this draft decision and the authorities concerned were informed that they had
four weeks from that time to raise pertinent objections and
motivated. Within the term for this purpose, the control authorities concerned shall not
presented pertinent and reasoned objections in this regard, for which reason it is considered
that all authorities agree with said draft decision and are
linked by it, in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of article 60
of the GDPR.

This draft decision was notified to GUUDJOB in accordance with the established rules
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (LPACAP) on June 30, 2022, as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

Competition and applicable regulations

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 and 60 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free circulation of these data (GDPR), and as established in articles 47,
48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 and 68.2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection
of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 and 4.2 of the GDPR,
the processing of personal data is recorded, since GUUDJOB
carries out the collection of, among others, the following personal data of natural persons:
name and surname, telephone and email, among other treatments.

GUUDJOB carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, given
who is the one who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the
GDPR. In addition, it is a cross-border processing, since GUUDJOB is
established in Spain, although it provides services to other countries of the European Union.

The GDPR provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of cross-border processing,
provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the authority of
main control, that, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the authority of
control of the main establishment or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the
The person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as control authority
for the cross-border processing carried out by said controller or
commissioned in accordance with the procedure established in article 60. In the case
examined, as has been exposed, GUUDJOB has its unique establishment in
Spain, so the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to
act as the main supervisory authority.

For its part, article 17 of the GDPR recognizes the right of the interested parties to
delete your personal data, while article 12 of the GDPR regulates the way
in which this right must be exercised.

II

Right of erasure

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

Article 17 “Right to erasure (“the right to be forgotten”)” of the GDPR establishes
that:

 "1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete without undue delay the personal data when any
of the following circumstances:

 a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which it was
were collected or otherwise processed;

 b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment is based in accordance
with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and this is not
based on another legal basis;

c) the interested party opposes the processing in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1, and does not
other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party opposes the
treatment according to article 21, paragraph 2;

d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;

e) personal data must be deleted to comply with a legal obligation
established in the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment;

f) the personal data have been obtained in relation to the offer of services of the
information society referred to in article 8, paragraph 1.

(…)”.

In the present case, the complaining party had requested the deletion of their data
personal, at least once, at the email address
'privacidad@guudjob.com' which is the address that appears in the privacy policy
of GUUDJOB for the exercise of rights. The complaining party had attempted the
deletion of your data on more occasions, the first on March 27, 2020.

Modalities of exercise of the rights of the interested party

IV.

Article 12 "Transparency of information, communication and modalities of
exercise of the rights of the interested party" of the GDPR establishes that:

“(…).

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the exercise of their rights by the interested party.
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph
2, the person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise
your rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you do not
is in a position to identify the interested party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

3. The person responsible for the treatment will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, without
undue delay and, in any case, within one month of receipt
of the request. This period may be extended by another two months if necessary,
taking into account the complexity and number of requests. The responsible
will inform the interested party of any of said extensions within a period of one month from
from receipt of the request, indicating the reasons for the delay. when the
interested party submits the application by electronic means, the information will be provided by
electronic means when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be
facilitate otherwise.

4. If the person responsible for the treatment does not process the request of the interested party, he will
will inform without delay, and no later than one month after receipt of the
application, the reasons for not acting and the possibility of presenting a
claim before a control authority and take legal action.

(…)”

For its part, article 12 “General provisions on the exercise of rights”
of the LOPDGDD provides that:

"(...)

4. Proof of compliance with the duty to respond to the request to exercise their
rights formulated by the affected party will fall on the person responsible.

(…)”.

Following the request for information sent from this Agency, GUUDJOB has
accredited that he had proceeded to cancel the data of the interested party, having provided
the corresponding screenshots in which it can be seen that there is no data
of the complaining party in the last twelve months.

However, the communication to the complaining party has occurred when there have been
initiated the previous actions in this Agency, having provided the email
email in which the complaining party is informed that their personal data will be
had been deleted more than a year ago coinciding with his request, and that, after having
received the notification from this Agency, they proceeded to inform them that
had produced the deletion of their data, and that they regretted not having answered their
request, adding that it occurred during the COVID era, and that for this reason it is not
could answer.

Therefore, in accordance with the evidence available in this agreement
initiation of disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
investigation, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to GUUDJOB, for violation of article 12 of the GDPR, in
in relation to the provisions of article 17 of the GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 12 of the GDPR

V

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 12 of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74.c) "Infringements considered minor"
of the LOPDGDD provides the following: "They are considered mild and will prescribe after one year the
remaining violations of a merely formal nature of the articles mentioned in
sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the
following: (…)

c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in articles
15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless the provisions apply
in article 72.1.k) of this organic law”.

Penalty for violation of article 12 of the GDPR

SAW

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the balance of the circumstances contemplated in the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed
by violating the provisions of article 12 of the GDPR, in relation to article 17,
initially allows a penalty of €1,000 (one thousand euros) to be set.

VII

imposition of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, without prejudice in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the
GDPR, according to which each control authority may "order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of article 83.2
of the GDPR.

Likewise, the measures that could be adopted in the resolution that puts an end to the
procedure, in relation to the exercise of rights, would be applicable in all
countries of the European Union in which GUUDJOB operates.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body could be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,
HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against GUUDJOB WORLDWIDE
S.L., with NIF B86865979, for the alleged violation of article 12 of the GDPR, in
relation to article 17 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor B.B.B. and, as secretary, to C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
documentation from IMI that has given rise to the previous actions of
investigation, as well as the documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate
General of Data Inspection in the actions prior to the start of this
disciplinary procedure and documentation from IMI on the project
decision.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 1,000.00 euros, without prejudice to what
results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to GUUDJOB WORLDWIDE S.L., with NIF
B86865979, granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

Pursuant to article 85 of the LPACAP, a proceeding
disciplinary measure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility, the problem may be resolved
procedure with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 800.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 800.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at 600.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (800.00 euros or 600.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

935-110422
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On October 1, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 800 euros making use of one of the two reductions
provided for in the Startup Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not been
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00165/2022, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GUUDJOB WORLDWIDE S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

