Legal Office  
N/REF: 0025/2021  

The inquiry raises the doubts that arise for the inquirer regarding the request for information made by a member of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias, qualified and admitted for processing by the Bureau of the Chamber, concerning the list of senior officials and managerial positions of the Principality of Asturias, its autonomous bodies, public entities, and public companies that have been supplied with any of the COVID-19 vaccines.  

According to the inquiry, the Health Service of the Principality of Asturias (SESPA), in its capacity as the data controller, has responded that, since the data regarding a person's vaccination status is health data and, as such, a special category of data, its communication would require, in accordance with Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (hereinafter GDPR), the explicit consent of the data subject, and it would also not be possible to provide a list of vaccinated positions, as the position serves to identify the person. Therefore, it concludes that in order to transfer the data, it would be necessary to obtain the written consent of the affected individuals once they have been informed of the specific data to be transferred and the purpose of that processing (advertising, transparency, parliamentary inquiry).  

Subsequently, the Technical General Secretariat of the Ministry of Health of the Principality of Asturias forwards the request for information and the response given by SESPA to the consulting Data Protection Officer (DPO) for their report.  

In this report, the DPO, also starting from the consideration of the requested data as health data, and in order to determine whether any of the other circumstances provided for in Article 9.2 of the GDPR, which, in addition to the explicit consent of the affected individuals, allow for the lifting of the prohibition on processing special categories of data, analyzes the legal nature of parliamentary regulations as norms of a legal nature. Considering this character, it believes that there is a legal basis for the transfer of data to the regional Parliament, which implies that the existence of personal data in the file does not seem to be a reason to fail to comply with the duty to provide the information, although since it is not expressly stated that health data may be subject to transfer, and following what is stated in Opinion CN13-052 of the Basque Data Protection Agency, dated January 21, 2014, a literal interpretation of the provision would prevent the communication of health data to the General Board, although the aforementioned Opinion admitted a flexibility of such a requirement based on a doctrinal sector, a fact that raises serious doubts of legality for the inquirer.  

c. Jorge Juan 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
1
Legal Office
Therefore, the DPD expresses its agreement with the SESPA's criteria, concluding the following:
“Thus, we share the SESPA's view regarding the transfer of health data, in this case, the vaccination status of certain workers, to the General Board of the Principality, which would require the explicit consent of the interested parties, as none of the legitimizing bases provided in Article 9 of the GDPR exist. It is not possible to provide a list with identifying data nor to facilitate a list of vaccinated positions, as any position can be easily associated with a name, which would mean we are talking about identified or identifiable persons.
Finally, the option of providing the requested information through the submission of pseudonymized data does not seem feasible, as this does not respond to the request received, which explicitly asks to know which specific public positions have been provided with the COVID-19 vaccine.
Given the serious doubts raised by the issues presented, I am forwarding all the above to that Agency in case it deems it pertinent to express its opinion on the criteria outlined.”
I
As this Agency has repeatedly indicated, at the time of formulating the inquiry, it must start from the new regime established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR) and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights.
Indeed, as indicated in the Explanatory Memorandum of Law 3/2018, “the greatest novelty presented by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution from a model fundamentally based on compliance control to one that rests on the principle of active responsibility, which requires a prior assessment by the data controller or the processor of the risk that the processing of personal data may generate, in order to adopt the appropriate measures based on that assessment.”
Consequently, it is the data controller who must comply with the principles set forth in Article 5 of the GDPR, among which, as seen, is the principle of proactive responsibility, included in its c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
2
Legal Office
Section 2, “the data controller shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of Section 1 and capable of demonstrating it (‘proactive accountability’)”. Among the principles of Section 1 is that of “lawfulness”, included in its letter a), so that personal data shall be processed lawfully, with Article 6 regulating the legal bases that determine the lawfulness of the processing. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the data controller to determine the legal basis that may support the corresponding processing.

A fundamental role, finally, within this new model of active responsibility established in the General Data Protection Regulation will be played by the data protection officer, which the General Regulation governs in Articles 37 to 39. In particular, Article 37.1 a) mandates the designation of a data protection officer in cases where “the processing is carried out by a public authority or body, except for courts acting in their judicial capacity”.

In turn, Article 38.1 clearly establishes that “The controller and the processor shall ensure that the data protection officer is involved properly and in a timely manner in all issues relating to the processing of personal data” and Article 39.2 provides that “The data protection officer shall perform their tasks with due regard to the risks associated with processing operations, taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing”.

Finally, Article 39.1 lists the functions of the data protection officer, among which are “to inform and advise the controller or the processor and the employees involved in the processing of their obligations under this Regulation and under other Union or Member State data protection provisions” (paragraph a), “to monitor compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, other Union or Member State data protection provisions, and the policies of the controller or processor regarding personal data protection, including the allocation of responsibilities, awareness-raising and training of staff involved in processing operations, and the corresponding audits” (paragraph b) and “to provide advice as requested regarding the data protection impact assessment and to monitor its implementation in accordance with Article 35” (paragraph c).

It is also the responsibility of the data protection officer “to act as a contact point for the supervisory authority on issues relating to processing, including the prior consultation referred to in Article 36, and to consult, where appropriate, on any other matter” (paragraph e).
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
3
Legal Office
Therefore, if the data controller has doubts about the legal basis that may determine the lawfulness of a specific processing, they must consult their data protection officer in cases where, as in the present case, their appointment is mandatory, who must provide the necessary advice. 
Only in the event that the data protection officer has legal doubts regarding the matter submitted for their consideration that cannot be resolved with the criteria already informed by the AEPD or due to being new issues arising from the application of the new legal framework for the protection of personal data that have a general scope in which a report that contributes to legal certainty is deemed appropriate, may the data protection officer submit a consultation to this Legal Office, accompanying said consultation with their own report in which the issues subject to consultation are analyzed in detail and with justification.
In the present case, as stated in the consultation raised by the DPO, the condition of data controller corresponds to SESMA, being that body who must determine the legal basis that may support the corresponding processing, in this case, the communication of the personal data requested by a member of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias under Article 14 of the Regulation of the General Board of the Principality of Asturias of June 18, 1997.
Therefore, having pronounced on the lawfulness of the requested communication in the terms indicated in the background, it is not appropriate to issue any report regarding the specific consultation raised, and the response given by SESMA must be sent to the Presidency of the Parliament for its transfer to the interested Deputy, who, should they consider that there has been a breach or defective compliance with the requirements, and without prejudice to any other resources provided, may file their complaint before the Table of the Chamber, which will adopt the measures it deems appropriate, in accordance with the aforementioned Article 14 of the parliamentary regulation.
II
Even though it is inappropriate to issue a report regarding the specific consultation raised for the reasons indicated, nevertheless, given the generality with which requests for information from parliamentarians are being made regarding individuals who have received the COVID-19 vaccine, this Agency considers it appropriate, for reasons of legal certainty, to analyze, in general terms, the legal regime applicable to the corresponding processing of personal data.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
4
Legal Cabinet
To this end, it must be considered that the information related to the fact of vaccination is a health-related data, given the broad scope with which such data is considered under the GDPR. In this regard, Article 4.15 of the GDPR defines "health-related data" as personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveals information about their health status; 

For its part, Recital (35) states that among the personal data related to health, all data concerning the health status of the data subject that provides information about their past, present, or future physical or mental health must be included. (…) any number, symbol, or data assigned to a natural person that uniquely identifies them for health purposes; information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or a bodily substance, including that derived from genetic data and biological samples, and any information related, for example, to a disease, a disability, the risk of suffering from diseases, medical history, clinical treatment, or the physiological or biomedical status of the data subject, regardless of its source, for example, a doctor or other health professional, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test. 

Furthermore, the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union has also advocated for a broad interpretation of the concept, as already indicated in the Judgment of November 6, 2003 (Case C-101/01, Lindqvist) interpreting Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24, 1995, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, in its paragraph 50: 
Considering the objective of this Directive, it is necessary to give a broad interpretation to the expression "health-related data," used in its Article 8, paragraph 1, so that it encompasses information related to all aspects, both physical and mental, of a person's health. 

From the above, it must be concluded that the information regarding the condition of having received the vaccine, as it reveals information about the health status of the individuals who have received it, is a health data, and therefore must be included within the "special categories of data" in accordance with Article 9 of the GDPR. 

Regarding the processing of personal data corresponding to the "special categories of data," the general rule is its prohibition, as stated in Article 9.1 of the GDPR: 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5
Legal Office
The processing of personal data revealing ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union affiliation is prohibited, as well as the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, health-related data, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person.

Consequently, the processing of special categories of personal data must find coverage in Article 9.2 of the GDPR, and once the general prohibition is lifted, one must refer to the provisions of Article 6 of the GDPR to legitimize the processing in question. This was already indicated by the Article 29 Working Party (whose functions have been assumed by the European Data Protection Board) in its opinion “Guidelines on Automated Individual Decision-Making and Profiling for the Purposes of Regulation 2016/679” by stating that (…) Data controllers may only process special category personal data if one of the conditions laid down in Article 9, paragraph 2, is met, as well as a condition from Article 6.(…), and more recently, the European Data Protection Board in its “Guidelines 03/2020 on the processing of personal data concerning health for scientific research purposes in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, adopted on April 21, 2020”:

All processing of personal data concerning health must comply with the relevant principles established in Article 5 of the GDPR and adhere to one of the legal bases and specific exceptions listed, respectively, in Article 6 and Article 9 of the GDPR for the legality of processing this special category of personal data.

Therefore, the first thing to analyze is whether any of the exceptions that lift the prohibition on processing health-related data, as outlined in paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the GDPR, apply, indicating that it will not be applicable in the following cases:
a) the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of such personal data for one or more specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provides that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 cannot be lifted by the data subject; 
b) the processing is necessary for compliance with obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of employment law and social security and protection, to the extent that it is authorized by Union law or the law of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes.
Legal Office
adequate guarantees of respect for fundamental rights and the
interests of the data subject; 
 c) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of
the data subject or another natural person, in the event that the data subject
is not capable, physically or legally, of giving their consent; 
 d) the processing is carried out, within the scope of its
legitimate activities and with the necessary guarantees, by a foundation, an association,
or any other non-profit organization, whose purpose is
political, philosophical, religious, or trade union, provided that the processing
refers exclusively to current or former members of such
organizations or to individuals who maintain regular contacts with them
in relation to their purposes and provided that the personal data is not
communicated outside of them without the consent of the data subjects; 
 e) the processing relates to personal data that the data subject
has made manifestly public; 
 f) the processing is necessary for the formulation, exercise, or
defense of claims or when courts act in the exercise of
their judicial function; 
 g) the processing is necessary for reasons of an essential public
interest, based on Union Law or the laws of the
Member States, which must be proportional to the pursued objective, respect
essentially the right to data protection, and establish
adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and
fundamental rights of the data subject; 
h) the processing is necessary for purposes of preventive or
occupational medicine, assessment of the worker's capacity,
medical diagnosis, provision of assistance or treatment of a health or social nature,
or management of health and social care systems and services,
based on Union Law or the laws of the Member States or
by virtue of a contract with a health professional and without prejudice to the
conditions and guarantees provided for in paragraph 3; 
 i) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the
field of public health, such as protection against
serious cross-border health threats, or to ensure high levels
of quality and safety of healthcare and of
medicines or medical products, based on Union Law or the laws of the
Member States that establish adequate and specific measures to protect the
rights and freedoms of the data subject, in
particular professional secrecy; 
 j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public
interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes,
in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, based on Union Law
or the laws of the Member States, which must be proportional to the
pursued objective, respect essentially the right to data protection, and establish
adequate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the data subject. (…).
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
7
Legal Office
In relation to these cases that lift the prohibition on the processing of special categories of personal data, the LOPDGDD provides specific provisions in its Article 9:
Article 9. Special categories of data.
1. For the purposes of Article 9.2.a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in order to avoid discriminatory situations, the mere consent of the affected individual will not be sufficient to lift the prohibition on the processing of data whose main purpose is to identify their ideology, union affiliation, religion, sexual orientation, beliefs, or racial or ethnic origin. The provisions of the previous paragraph shall not prevent the processing of such data under the remaining assumptions contemplated in Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when appropriate.
2. The data processing referred to in letters g), h), and i) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 based on Spanish law must be covered by a norm with the rank of law, which may establish additional requirements regarding its security and confidentiality. In particular, such a norm may cover the processing of data in the field of health when required by the management of public and private healthcare and social assistance systems and services, or the execution of an insurance contract to which the affected individual is a party. Furthermore, in relation to health data processing, the LOPDGDD contains specific provisions in its seventeenth additional provision, stating in its paragraph 1 the following:
1. The data processing related to health and genetic data regulated in the following laws and their implementing provisions are covered by letters g), h), i), and j) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679:
a) Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health Law.
b) Law 31/1995, of November 8, on the Prevention of Occupational Risks.
c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulatory law on patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation.
d) Law 16/2003, of May 28, on cohesion and quality of the National Health System.
e) Law 44/2003, of November 21, on the regulation of health professions.
f) Law 14/2007, of July 3, on Biomedical Research.
g) Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health Law.
h) Law 20/2015, of July 14, on the regulation, supervision, and solvency of insurance and reinsurance entities.
i) The consolidated text of the Law on guarantees and rational use of medicines and health products, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, of July 24.
j) The consolidated text of the General Law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of November 29.
However, as noted in the Report of this Agency 101/2019, [...] the content of the seventeenth additional provision of the LOPDGDD must be considered such that while a taxative list is established, this circumstance does not prevent the processing of health data from being covered by other norms not mentioned therein, provided that one of the circumstances provided for in Article 9.2 of the GDPR is met and the regulation established for this purpose has the rank of law and meets the guarantees that the Constitutional Court considers essential when we are dealing with the processing of special categories of data. 
For its part, Article 6 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the processing of data to be considered lawful, which states the following:
1. Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met: 
a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes; 
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is a party or for the implementation at the request of the data subject of pre-contractual measures; 
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject; 
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person; 
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller; 
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
9
Legal Office
As has been made clear, Articles 6 and 9 of the GDPR establish the circumstances that allow for the processing of personal data, in general, and specifically regarding special categories of data, respectively.  
On the other hand, Article 8 of the LOPDGDD under the heading “Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest, or exercise of public powers” establishes the following:  
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, as provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided for by a norm of European Union law or a norm with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it, as well as the transfers that may occur as a consequence of fulfilling the legal obligation. Such a norm may also impose special conditions on processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.  
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller, as provided in Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a norm with the rank of law.  
Finally, once the concurrence of any of the exceptions of Article 9.2 and a legal basis of Article 6.1 has been determined, the remaining principles contained in Article 5 of the GDPR must be complied with:  
1. Personal data shall be:  
a) processed lawfully, fairly, and transparently in relation to the data subject (“lawfulness, fairness, and transparency”);  
b) collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes; in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific and historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes (“purpose limitation”);  
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“data minimization”);  
d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure that inaccurate personal data is erased or rectified without delay in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
10
Legal Office
e) maintained in such a way that allows for the identification of the
interested parties for no longer than necessary for the purposes of
the processing of personal data; personal data may be retained for
longer periods provided that they are processed exclusively for
archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical
research purposes, or for statistical purposes, in accordance with
Article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of the
appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject
(“storage limitation”);
f) processed in such a way as to ensure an adequate level of
security for personal data, including protection against unauthorized
or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or
damage, through the application of appropriate technical or
organizational measures (“integrity and confidentiality”).
2. The data controller shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 and shall be able to demonstrate it
(“proactive accountability”).
III
Once the applicable legal framework for health processing has been
generally outlined, it is necessary to analyze the possible occurrence
of any of the cases that allow for lifting the prohibition on the
processing of health data in accordance with Article 9.2 of the GDPR
and Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD. In this regard, it should be noted
that such data has been requested by a member of the General
Council of the Principality of Asturias, in the exercise of the right
recognized by Article 14.1 of its Regulations:
1. For the better performance of their parliamentary functions,
with prior knowledge of the Spokesperson of their Group, Deputies
shall have the right to obtain from the bodies and institutions of the
Administration of the Autonomous Community the data, reports, or
documents held by them.
According to reiterated constitutional doctrine, the right to
information of deputies is part of the fundamental right recognized in
Article 23 of the Constitution, recalling the ruling of the Constitutional
Court No. 203/2001 of October 15, which states that “[...] the line of
jurisprudence that begins with STC 5/1983, of February 4, and
10/1983, of February 21, this Court has established a direct
relationship between the right of a parliamentarian ‘ex’ art. 23.2 CE
and the right attributed to citizens by our Constitution to participate
in public affairs in art. 23.1, since ‘it is primarily the political
representatives of the citizens who give effect to their right to
participate in public affairs,’ as we have recently stated in STC
107/2001, of April 23, F. 3, citing STC c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11
Legal Cabinet
38/1999, of March 23. Thus, the right of Article 23.2 of the Spanish Constitution (CE) as well as, indirectly, the one recognized by Article 23.1 CE to citizens, would be rendered void or ineffective if the political representative were deprived of it or disturbed in its exercise (Constitutional Court Judgments 10/1983, of February 21, and 32/1985, of March 6).

In this same sense, the judgment of the Constitutional Court number 220/1991 of November 25 states:
“In relation to the right protected by Article 23 of the Constitution, the solution is governed by the following premises, extracted from the doctrine established in this matter by, among others, Constitutional Court Judgments 32/1985, 161/1988, 45/1990, and 196/1990, and the Constitutional Court Order 426/1990: a) the fundamental right recognized in Article 23 of the Constitution is a legally configured right, corresponding to the Law - a concept that includes Parliamentary Regulations - to order the rights and powers that correspond to the different public offices and functions, passing those, by virtue of their legal creation, to be integrated into the specific status of each office, with the consequence that their holders may defend, under the protection of Article 23.2 of the CE, the ius inofficium that they consider to be illegitimately constrained; b) the aforementioned constitutional right guarantees not only equal access to public functions and offices but also to remain in them without illegitimate disturbances and to not be prevented from performing them in accordance with what the Law provides; c) when it comes to a request for protection made by parliamentary representatives in defense of the exercise of their functions, the application of Article 23 encompasses, inseparably, the two sections it consists of; d) the acts through which the requests for information and questions from parliamentarians to members of the Government are articulated, and, in general, all those that occur in the context of the relations between Government and Parliament, including those of the autonomous communities, normally exhaust their effects in the strictly parliamentary field, giving rise, where applicable, to the functioning of the political control instruments, which generally excludes both judicial oversight and that of this Constitutional Court, which is not responsible for controlling any kind of alterations or irregularities that occur in the political or institutional relations between the Legislative and the Executive; e) however, the aforementioned general doctrine does not exclude that, exceptionally, in the development of such relations, the exercise of the fundamental right guaranteed to parliamentarians by Article 23 of the CE may be violated, either by the Executive or by the chambers' own bodies, if they are prevented or curtailed from exercising their parliamentary function. It is important to highlight that this does not mean constitutionalizing all the rights and powers that constitute the Statute of the parliamentarian, but only those that we might consider belonging to the essential core of the representative function.
Legal Cabinet
parliamentary, such as, primarily, those that have a direct relationship with the exercise of legislative powers and the control of the Government's actions, it must also be maintained that, while the obstacles to the exercise of the powers that comprise the parliamentary function arising from the Chambers' own bodies are, in principle, susceptible to review in amparo, the responses or actions of the Executive in reply to such exercise also constitute, in principle, an exercise of its own governmental functions, susceptible to political and parliamentary control - and, ultimately, electoral - but not generally reviewable from considerations of legal correctness, at the risk of attempting an unacceptable judicialization of political life, which is not required in any way by the Constitution, and is not conducive to the normal functioning of the political activity of the Legislative Chambers and the Government.”

Adding that “[...] the denial or incomplete satisfaction of a question or request for information made by parliamentarians does not, by itself, constitute a violation of the fundamental right to exercise the office guaranteed by art. 23 of the C.E., which does not include the right to a response with a specific content, since the channel for controlling such governmental action is the political action of those parliamentarians; it has already been stated that the opposite would be to supplant that political action with that of this Tribunal, with a manifest excess in the exercise of its function and competencies and undue distortion of the scope of art. 23, extending it beyond the limits that are proper to it.”

Developing the aforementioned doctrine, the already cited Judgment No. 203/2001 of October 15, provides that 
Having established this, it is appropriate to clarify, on the other hand, that in the present case the specific right “ex” art. 23.2 CE that is integrated into the “status” of the political representative who requests amparo from us is conferred by art. 7 of the Regulations of the Congress of Deputies (RCD), where the power of “the Deputies, with prior knowledge of the respective parliamentary Group” to “request from the public Administrations the data, reports, or documents that are in their possession” has been provided.

From this, it follows, on one hand, that we are faced with “an individual right” of the Deputies, which is integrated into the specific “status” of the office (STC 161/1988, of September 20, F. 7 and 181/1989, of November 3 [RTC 1989, 181], F. 5), which empowers them to request, “in the manner and with the requirements that the same Regulation establishes,” information from the public Administrations. This differentiates this case from that provided in art. 44.1 RCD regarding the Committees of Congress. On the other hand, that art. 7 of the aforementioned Regulation attributes to them.
Legal Office
this right "for the better fulfillment of their parliamentary functions." This should be understood as specifically referring to the function of overseeing or controlling the actions of the Government, which directs "the civil and military Administration" (art. 97 CE); thus constituting a particular aspect of the control function generically attributed to the General Courts in art. 66.2 CE. Its specific purpose is to know certain facts and situations, as well as the administrative documents that evidence them, related to the activity of public Administrations; information that may either exhaust its effects upon its acquisition or be instrumental and subsequently serve for the Deputy who requests it, or their parliamentary Group, to carry out a judgment or assessment regarding that specific activity and the Government's policy, using other control instruments.

To add, secondly, that the right "ex" art. 23.2 CE includes both the right to request specific information from public Administrations and the right to obtain it from them. This determines that its exercise is framed within the institutional relations "between Executive and Legislative" and, consequently, that this right may be infringed "either by the Executive or by the bodies of the Chambers themselves" (STC 196/1990, of November 29 [RTC 1990, 196], F. 7). Regarding the first aspect, which is of interest here, it must be noted that art. 7.1 RCD only requires, as prerequisites for the request for information from Deputies, the knowledge of this by the parliamentary Group to which they belong, as already mentioned; also stipulating that "The request shall be directed in any case, through the Presidency of the Congress," according to art. 7.2 RCD. While it is the responsibility of the Congress Table, by virtue of the provisions in art. 31.1.4 and 5 RCD, both to "qualify... the writings and documents of a parliamentary nature, as well as to declare their admissibility or inadmissibility" and to decide on their processing.

These same criteria are reiterated in other subsequent rulings, such as Judgment No. 32/2017 of February 27.

On the other hand, STC 220/1991 pointed out this differentiation between the right to information of deputies and that of citizens: 
To the previous reflection, a second must be added, consisting of the idea that the substantive issue must be addressed starting from the guiding idea that the challenged governmental act has been adopted against the appellants in their capacity as members of a Legislative Assembly, that is, as parliamentarians, and not in consideration of their status as citizens; in regard to that capacity, which is what the claimants assert in this appeal, the only fundamental right that the challenged act may have violated is that guaranteed by art. 23 of the Constitution, through which they seek to be protected.
Legal Cabinet
in the effectiveness of its parliamentary function, which it considers integrated into the right to participate in public affairs recognized in said art. 23. Excluded from this fundamental right, the others guaranteed by the Constitution could only be affected if the contested act exceeded that parliamentary scope in which it unfolds its effects and had some kind of relation to the condition of citizens that, obviously, the claimants also hold, but which in this appeal is totally unrelated to the issue raised, determining that here we cannot appreciate constitutional violation that does not refer to the aforementioned art. 23 of the Constitution (FJ 4, para. 3).
Regarding the appealability before the contentious-administrative jurisdiction of the decision adopted by the Administration, it must also be taken into account the position adopted regarding its admissibility by the Supreme Court starting from the ruling of April 25, 2013, whose reasons are developed in the Ruling of June 1, 2015:
As explained in the contested ruling, only if the reason given for not providing the requested information is based on law could the governmental refusal be compatible with that fundamental right because, it is true, the right of parliamentarians is not unlimited. However, it is also not up to the criteria of the Generalitat Valenciana to establish, through the definition of its limits, said right or, in other words, the existence of legal impediments that make it inappropriate to attend to the information request.
Nothing prevents, of course, the deputies who have seen their request rejected, in part or in its entirety, from following the parliamentary path provided for in article 12 previously transcribed. But nothing prevents them either from making use of the other means that the legal system provides them to defend their fundamental right and, in particular, judicial protection.
It is true that for ruling 220/1991 (RTC 1991, 220) not all governmental acts are subject to review by the Courts of Administrative Litigation and that those produced in the context of the relations between the Government and the Parliament "normally exhaust their effects in the strictly parliamentary field, giving rise, in their case, to the functioning of political control instruments, which generally excludes both judicial oversight and that of this Constitutional Court, which is not responsible for controlling any kind of alterations or irregularities that occur in the political or institutional relations between the Legislative and Executive." And, in the controversial case, it did not appreciate infringement of that right because the refusal of the Basque Government to provide the requested information rested on an express provision of a Basque law that classified the requested data as reserved, which referred to the destination of certain expenses considered reserved by the budget laws for the years 1988 and 1989.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
15
Legal Office
However, that same ruling admitted that "the previous general doctrine does not exclude that, exceptionally, in the development of such relationships, the exercise of the fundamental right guaranteed to parliamentarians by Article 23 of the Spanish Constitution (RCL 1978, 2836) may be violated, either by the Executive or by the chambers themselves, if they are prevented or restricted from exercising their parliamentary function." It is important to highlight that there is no legal norm that, as was the case in the situation that originated ruling 220/1991, directly and expressly prevented the Valencian Government from providing the requested information.

Furthermore, it is essential to keep in mind that, subsequently, after the interpretation made by the jurisprudence of the Third Chamber regarding the scope of the so-called political acts of the Government in its ruling of June 28, 1994 (RJ 1994, 5050) (appeal 7105/1992) and in the three rulings of April 4, 1997 (RJ 1997, 4514) (appeals 726, 634, 602/1996), and after the entry into force of the current Law of Jurisdiction (RCL 1998, 1741), there is no doubt that, in accordance with its Article 2 a), which reflects that jurisprudence, the administrative courts are competent to address issues raised concerning the protection of fundamental rights regarding acts of the Government or the Councils of Government of the Autonomous Communities, regardless of the nature of such acts. And, as stated, in this case, there is an act of the Valencian Government attributed with the violation of the fundamental right invoked by the appellants.

Regarding the possibility that deputies may choose between following the path offered by the regulations of the chamber to which they belong or seeking judicial protection for the right recognized to them, which is part of the powers inherent to their representative public office, it should be noted that there are various situations in which interested parties have several avenues available to seek satisfaction of their claims without this implying a breach of any principle or rule that must be observed. It suffices to consider the always-existing possibility of requesting the intervention of the Ombudsman or resorting to non-judicial avenues to achieve the desired purpose. Moreover, to obtain judicial protection, there are cases where multiple paths can be undertaken, as occurs when it is possible to pursue, even simultaneously, the special appeal for the protection of fundamental rights and the ordinary one.

Setting aside the specific circumstances of this litigation and as a consideration for the future, it must be stated that, following Law 19/2013, of December 9 (RCL 2013, 1772), on transparency, access to public information, and good governance, and for the Valencian Community, following Law 2/2015, of April 2 (LCV 2015, 133), on transparency and good governance.
Legal Cabinet
and citizen participation of the Valencian Community, the right of parliamentarians to public information can only be strengthened. 
Indeed, in order for them to be in adequate conditions to face the special responsibility entrusted to them upon their election, they must have the necessary means for it, which regarding access to information and public documents cannot be less than those already available to any citizen by virtue of those laws, but must represent the essential added value. 
Consequently, in accordance with the cited jurisprudence, the right to information of parliamentarians is part of the content of the fundamental right to political participation recognized in Article 23 of the Constitution, therefore, it is superior to that of any citizen, although not as broad as that recognized for other bodies, such as the Investigative Commissions, in accordance with their specific regulations. However, like all fundamental rights, it is limited, and among those limits must be the protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data enshrined in Article 18.4 of the Constitution and in the GDPR and the LOPDGDD. 
Therefore, the right to information of deputies, as it is part of the content of the fundamental right to political participation recognized in Article 23 of the Constitution and derived from the configuration of Spain as a democratic State in Article 1 thereof and from the control function of the Government's actions attributed to the Cortes Generales in Article 66 and to the regional parliaments in their respective Statutes of Autonomy, responds to the existence of an essential public interest, so the processing of special categories of data, in this case, health data, could be covered by Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, provided that all the requirements set forth therein are met:
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of an essential public interest, based on Union Law or the laws of the Member States, which must be proportional to the pursued objective, essentially respect the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject; 
III 
In relation to the concurrence of the requirements for the processing of special categories of data under the provisions of Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, the Constitutional Court has already had the opportunity to rule on this in its Judgment 76/2019, of May 22, 2019. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es 
28001 Madrid 
17
Legal Office
The ruling first analyzes the legal regime to which the processing of special categories of data is subject under the GDPR: 
“According to paragraph 1 of Article 9 GDPR, the processing of personal data revealing political opinions is prohibited, just as the processing of personal data revealing ethnic or racial origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union affiliation, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data related to health, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person is prohibited. However, paragraph 2 of the same provision authorizes the processing of all those data when any of the ten circumstances provided therein [letters a) to j)] occur. Some of those circumstances have a limited scope of application (labor, social, associative, health, judicial, etc.) or respond to a specific purpose, which, in themselves, delimit the specific treatments they authorize as exceptions to the general rule. Furthermore, the enabling effectiveness of several of the cases provided therein is conditioned on the Union Law or that of the Member States expressly providing for and regulating them within their areas of competence: this is the case for the circumstances listed in letters a), b), g), h), i), and j).
The processing of special categories of personal data is one of the areas in which the General Data Protection Regulation has expressly recognized that Member States have "leeway" when it comes to "specifying their rules," as stated in its recital 10. This legislative leeway extends both to the determination of the enabling causes for the processing of specially protected personal data - that is, to the identification of the essential public interest purposes and the assessment of the proportionality of the processing to the pursued end, while essentially respecting the right to data protection - as well as to the establishment of "appropriate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject" [Article 9.2 g) GDPR]. The Regulation therefore contains a specific obligation for Member States to establish such guarantees, in the event that they enable the processing of specially protected personal data.”
On the other hand, regarding the guarantees that the legislator must adopt, the aforementioned ruling no. 76/2019 of May 22, after recalling that “In view of the potential intrusive effects on the fundamental right affected resulting from the processing of personal data, the case law of this Court requires the legislator to establish, in addition to meeting the previously mentioned requirements, also adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and procedural nature, that prevent the risks of different...
Legal Office
probability and severity and mitigate their effects, for only in this way can
the respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself be sought,” analyzes which norm must contain the aforementioned guarantees:
“Therefore, the resolution of this challenge requires us to clarify a doubt raised regarding the scope of our doctrine on adequate guarantees, which consists of determining whether the adequate guarantees against the use of information technology must be contained in the very law that authorizes and regulates that use or can also be found in other normative sources.
The question can only have a constitutional answer. The provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a moment subsequent to the legal regulation of the processing of personal data in question. The adequate guarantees must be incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing itself, either directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only that understanding is compatible with the dual requirement that arises from art. 53.1 CE (RCL 1978, 2836) for the legislator of fundamental rights: the legal reservation for the regulation of the exercise of the fundamental rights recognized in the second chapter of the first title of the Constitution and the respect for the essential content of such fundamental rights.
According to reiterated constitutional doctrine, the legal reservation is not limited to requiring that a law enables the restrictive measure of fundamental rights, but it is also necessary, in accordance with both requirements referred to as -sometimes- normative predetermination and -other times- quality of the law, as well as respect for the essential content of the right, that in that regulation the legislator, who is primarily obliged to weigh the conflicting rights or interests, predetermine the assumptions, conditions, and guarantees under which the adoption of restrictive measures of fundamental rights is appropriate.
This mandate of predetermination regarding essential elements, also ultimately linked to the proportionality judgment of the limitation of the fundamental right, cannot be deferred to a subsequent legal or regulatory development, nor can it be left in the hands of the individuals themselves” (FJ 8). (…)
Regarding the nature of parliamentary regulations as norms equated to law, this Agency has no doubt, as it has been recognizing, in accordance with constitutional doctrine, in numerous reports, the most recent being Report 235/2017, in which it reiterated what was already stated in the Report of September 15, 2005:
Thus, and in order to consider the Regulation of the Chamber, in this case autonomous, as a norm with the rank of Law that
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
19
Legal Office
will enable the communication of the data requested by the Parliamentary Group, it is advisable to analyze its legal nature. 
In general terms, the Constitution recognizes the regulatory power of the Chambers in its article 72.1, and provides that the Regulations can only be approved or modified by an absolute majority of the corresponding Chamber. The self-regulatory power implies, in addition to the attribution to the Chambers of the autonomous normative faculty, that the regulatory norm derives directly from the Constitution and, consequently, has no limits other than those established by it. This power also implies that no other norm than the Regulations of the Chambers can regulate the organization and functioning of these, thus configuring a “regulatory reserve.” 
All these elements lead to considering parliamentary Regulations as a norm with certain peculiarities within the legal system because they are norms emanating from the legislative power and are elaborated without following the usual legislative procedure and therefore cannot be considered as a law in the strict general sense. On the other hand, as they are norms that derive directly from the Constitution, since there is no norm that intervenes between the Constitution, the Constitutional Court in its ruling 118/1988, of June 20, considers parliamentary Regulations “assimilated to laws and normative provisions with the force of Law.” 
Consequently, the Regulations of the Chambers are norms directly linked and subordinated to the Constitution and their position in the system of sources cannot be determined in terms of hierarchy, but in terms of competence, that is, based on the constitutionally provided reserve in favor of the Regulations so that these, and not any other norm, govern the internal life of the Chambers. The force of Law attributed by the Constitutional Court to parliamentary Regulations is also reflected in article 27.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, according to which a constitutional challenge can be made against them. 
Therefore, given the existence of an essential public interest, provided for in a norm of internal law with the force of law, it is crucial to analyze whether this norm has proceeded to identify the essential public interest purposes and the assessment of the proportionality of the treatment to the pursued end, and whether it has provided the adequate guarantees, considering that the general requirement for such guarantees is reinforced when it comes to special categories of personal data, as stated in article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, which refers to “appropriate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subjects.” 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20
Legal Office
"interested party" and Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD, which provides that such treatments under the letter g) of Article 9.2 of the GDPR "must be covered by a norm with the rank of law, which may establish additional requirements regarding their security and confidentiality." 

Furthermore, the cited constitutional doctrine must be taken into account, as the Constitutional Court has been clear that the provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a later moment than the legal regulation of the personal data processing in question. Adequate guarantees must be incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing itself, either directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only that understanding is compatible with the dual requirement that stems from Article 53.1 of the Spanish Constitution (CE) (...). It is evident that if the norm included a reference for the integration of the law with the adequate guarantees established in norms of a lower rank than the law, it would be considered a deregulation that sacrifices the legal reserve under Article 53.1 CE, and for this sole reason, it should be declared unconstitutional and null. (...). Ultimately, it is about "adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and procedural nature, which prevent risks of different probabilities and severities and mitigate their effects, as only in this way can respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself be ensured" (Judgments 292/2000 and 76/2019). Therefore, it is not sufficient for the establishment of such adequate and specific guarantees for the law to refer to the GDPR itself or to the LOPDGDD.

The same doctrine is upheld by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Thus, if Article 8 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights recognizes the right of every person to the protection of personal data concerning them, Article 52.1 recognizes that this right is not unlimited and allows for the limitation of the exercise of those rights and freedoms recognized by the Charter, a limitation that must be established by law and respect the essential content of the same.

Well, the CJEU judgment of October 6, 2020, in the joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18, and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others (not yet available in Spanish as of this date), in its paragraph 175, recalls that: 
With regard to the justification for such interference, the requirement, established in Article 52(1) of the Charter, that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be provided for by law implies that the legal basis which permits that interference with those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right concerned (see, to that effect, judgment of 16 July 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and the case-law cited).
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
21
Legal Office
Similarly, paragraph 65 of the Judgment (CJEU) dated October 6, 2020 (C-623/17), Privacy International v. Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and others, citing, as the previous one, the Schrems 2 judgment, states: 
It should be added that the requirement that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis allowing interference with such rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right in question (judgment of July 16, 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and cited case law).
In short, paragraph 175 of the CJEU Judgment of July 16, 2020, C-311/2020, Schrems 2, states: It should be added, regarding this last aspect, that the requirement that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis allowing interference with such rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right in question [Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 139 and cited case law].
Thus, it is the same law that establishes the interference with the fundamental right that must determine the conditions and guarantees, that is, the scope and limitation, that must be observed in such treatments. 
And in that CJEU Judgment of July 16, 2020, Schrems 2, it is added (and reiterated subsequently in the aforementioned judgments of October 6, 2020):
176 Finally, to meet the proportionality requirement according to which exceptions to the protection of personal data and limitations of that protection must not exceed what is strictly necessary, the controversial regulation that entails interference must establish clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the measure in question and impose minimum requirements, so that individuals whose data has been transferred have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse. In particular, such regulation must indicate under what circumstances and according to what requirements a measure that involves the processing of such data may be adopted, thus ensuring that the interference is limited to what is strictly necessary. The need for such guarantees is particularly important when personal data is subjected to automated processing [see, in this regard, Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraphs 140 and 141 and cited case law].
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
22
Legal Office
The CJEU ruling of October 6, 2020, in case C-623/17, adds the mention of special categories of data:
68 (…) These considerations are particularly applicable when the protection of that specific category of personal data, which is sensitive data, is at stake [see, in this regard, the judgments of April 8, 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others, C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraphs 54 and 55, and of December 21, 2016, Tele2, C-203/15 and C-698/15, EU:C:2016:970, paragraph 117; Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 141].
Furthermore, in the event that the aforementioned guarantees have been provided, it must be analyzed whether the intended processing is, in accordance with Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, “necessary” and “proportional to the objective pursued,” taking into account the doctrine on the principle of proportionality established by the Constitutional Court and recalled by Judgment 14/2003, of January 28: “In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes relevant here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether, additionally, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict sense proportionality test; STC 66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28 [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16 [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186], F. 6).”
Therefore, the triple test of suitability, necessity, and proportionality must be carried out, assessing whether the communication of personal data related to the health of certain individuals is necessary for the fulfillment of the purpose of controlling the Government's action pursued, and whether this purpose cannot be achieved by other means that do not require the communication of such data, such as could be, for example, the communication of aggregated information (i.e., anonymized, in such a way that it does not allow the identification of natural persons) referring to the different vaccination groups provided for in the vaccination protocols or non-membership in any of them, indicating the total number of individuals that would fall into each of those scenarios.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
23
Legal Cabinet
IV  
In the event that it is determined that all the conditions set forth in Article 9.2.g) in accordance with national regulations and the cited constitutional doctrine are met, the legal bases that would legitimize the processing, taking into account the rights recognized for the deputies and the corresponding obligations applicable to the data controllers, would be those contemplated in Article 6.1. of the GDPR under letters c) (the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller) and e) (the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller).  
V  
Finally, the remaining principles set out in Article 5 of the GDPR must be complied with, particularly the principles of data minimization, so that the personal data provided to the parliamentarians are strictly necessary for the exercise of their function (i.e., that they are "adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed") and purpose limitation, so that they are not further processed in a manner incompatible with the purpose for which they were obtained. It must be indicated in the communication that they can only be used for the purpose that justifies their transfer, and that their processing must at all times comply with the provisions of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.  
VI  
Regarding the various assessments that must be made to adequately guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, it should be noted, in general terms, that it is not the responsibility of this Agency, but rather of the Bureau of the Chambers, to interpret and apply the cited regulations for the purpose of assessing the existence and sufficiency of the adequate guarantees that may have been provided in the corresponding Regulations and the necessity and proportionality of the processing and, where applicable, of the specific data that must be communicated in case of request. Otherwise, this Agency would be usurping the powers attributed to the Governing Body of a democratically elected Parliamentary Assembly, which would not be in accordance with the law, as has been indicated in numerous reports related to this issue. Therefore, in cases where, in the exercise of the right to information of the deputies, personal data is requested, compliance with the regulations on the protection of personal data corresponds, in the first instance, to the administrative body that holds the status of data controller, advised, where appropriate, by the data protection officer, and subsequently to the Bureau of the Chamber, in accordance with the corresponding parliamentary regulation, without prejudice to subsequent judicial review.  

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
25