1/29

 File No.: PS/00297/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated 03/25/2019, A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against the MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION,
currently, MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, EUROPEAN UNION AND
COOPERATION, with CIF *** CIF.1 (hereinafter, MAEC, the Ministry or the entity
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are, in short: the treatment of
your data, without your consent, within the framework of the “***PROGRAMA.1” program, which
includes sending text messages (SMS) to mobile telephone terminals with
information on consulates, which materializes when a Spanish citizen
crosses the Spanish border; and for not having responded to the requests made
before the MAEC to delete their personal data from the file used by
said Ministry to send consular information associated with the aforementioned program,
way to stop sending these messages. According to the complainant, the requests
were processed on dates 04/24 and 09/05/18, without in any case receiving
any answer.

Likewise, he warns that he contacted his telephony operator by telephone and that
he informed him that he is not involved in the matter, that he uses a Ministry file.

Among other things, the claimant provides the following documentation:

. Copy of a letter dated 04/24/2018, addressed to the claimed entity. In this
written there is a stamp corresponding to its presentation in the Service of
Mail on the same date indicated.

He refers to a piece of news about the activities of the aforementioned Ministry, published on
10/26/2015, regarding the program “***PROGRAMA.1”: “… an information service
free for the citizen who travels from Spain abroad, the result of a job
together with Telefónica and Orange. When the clients of these operators travel to the
abroad, they will receive an SMS on their phone with the cities of that country where there are
Embassy and Consulates of Spain and their corresponding emergency numbers
consular The service will be activated upon arrival in the country of destination, through the
roaming roaming”.

In this writing, the claimant indicates his mobile telephone number and the entity with which
that operates and requests that no notice be sent from the “MAEC.info” service, either to
through SMS or other means, whenever the operator warns of the “Roaming” service,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/29

and be deleted from the program “***PROGRAM.1”. expressly requests that the
The requested Ministry assumes the necessary steps to formalize this request.

Provides screen printing with an SMS received from “MAEC.info”, from “29 de
March". The recipient telephone number of this SMS does not appear. The text of this
message is as follows:

“***PROGRAM.1. In case of consular emergency call Consulates in Paris… (no.
phone number), Bayonne (phone number)”.

. Copy of a letter dated 09/05/2018, addressed to the MAEC. In this writing there is
a stamp corresponding to its presentation at the Postal Service in the
same date indicated.

The content of this writing is basically similar to the previous one. Repeat your request
to not receive SMS from the repeated program “***PROGRAMA.1” and the cancellation of your
data in the file used for this purpose or any other similar file of the MAEC. request
expressly be informed about it.

SECOND: On 05/17/2019, the claim was transferred to the entity
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in order to proceed to its analysis,
notify the claimant of the decision adopted and provide this Agency with information
about.

On 07/08/2019 and 08/01/2019, the MAEC responded to the aforementioned transfer stating
that the claimant receives an SMS on his mobile terminal when he travels abroad as
consequence of an agreement signed by the Ministry with certain companies
telephone operators; although it does not request, store or treat the data of the
citizens who travel abroad in order to send said SMS, but
It is these operators that have your personal data.

Thus, not being the holder of the claimant's data, the claimed party considers that it does not
no communication should be sent to you. You understand that the exercise of your rights
You must request it from the operator.

The aforementioned entity, on 08/01/2019, sent this Agency a copy of the
communication addressed to the claimant on the occasion of the claim made. In
this communication, dated 07/22/2019, the MAEC informs the claimant that the SMS
of the program “***PROGRAMA.1” is sent as a result of an agreement that
that Ministry signed with various telephone operators. Also, it is indicated that
has the data of Spanish citizens who travel abroad, nor does the
mobile number, unless they voluntarily enroll in the Registration application
of Travelers. Finally, the claimant is warned that "if you do not wish to receive the referrals
SMS when traveling abroad, you must request it from your telephone operator as it is
holder of your personal data and your mobile number”.

THIRD: Once the reasons stated by the claimed party in its
response to the transfer, it was considered that the initiation of a procedure

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/29

sanctioning party having been attended to the claim in accordance with the provisions of the
article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, and a resolution dated 09/09/2019 was issued, agreeing on the
file of the examined claim.

On 10/03/2019, the claimant filed an appeal for reconsideration, stating that
the telephone operator sends information arranged by the Ministry and that
it is up to the latter to warn the operators that a specific interested party does not wish to
receive the information object of the program “***PROGRAMA.1”, that is, about the
right of opposition exercised. He adds that it is the Ministry that must deal with the
citizen's claim.

This resource was estimated by resolution of 07/10/2020, in which it was agreed, in
Consequently, admit the claim filed against the MAEC for processing.

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD.

The Inspection Services of this Agency requested the MAEC the agreement of the
service subscribed with the operators Telefónica de España, S.A. and Orange Spain,
S.A.U., or any others with whom this service has been agreed. With date
03/26/2021 a reply was received in which it states that they do not appear in
the archives of that Ministry no Convention or Agreement signed with the aforementioned
operators, nor with any other, nor any other written document related to the
“***PROGRAM.1” campaign.

Requested information on the repeated agreements with various operators,
received in this Agency the following answers:

a) On 05/11/2021, the operator Xfera Móviles, S.A. He stated that he did not
participate in the aforementioned program, nor is it a service that they provide
Independent.

b) On 05/18/2021, the entity Orange Espagne, S.A.U. reported that the
program “***PROGRAMA.1” emerged on 10/26/2015 at the initiative of the MAEC, which
requested the collaboration of the operators, and consists of sending text messages
information to roaming customers when connecting to a foreign network with
roaming agreement. Specifically, it is an initiative that was led by the
Consular Emergency Unit of the MAEC, as published on the page
Ministry website (indicates the link).

The roaming service is activated by default in the Orange Spain rate,
S.A.U. but the user can deactivate the roaming service and therefore not
the informative SMS of the program “***PROGRAMA.1” would be received.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/29

The content of the text messages was defined by the MAEC itself, which appears
as their sender.

The service is still active and is regularly updated by referring to the
operators of an Excel file with updated information.

It adds that there is no document in the databases of that company that
formalize the aforementioned initiative.

With this response, he provided:
- Screen printing of several consular emergency SMS, in which
checks that the sender of the message is the MAEC, appearing as such
“MAEC-info”.

- Email dated 12/21/2020, sent by the IT area of the MAEC,

with an update to data from Manchester and Sierra Leone.

c) On 06/08/2021, Telefónica de España, S.A. stated that the service
“***PROGRAMA.1” is a free information service for citizens provided
by the MAEC, in collaboration with Telefónica de España, S.A. and Orange Spain,
S.A.U., according to a press release from the aforementioned Ministry on 10/26/2015 (indicates link).
 
It states that the sender of the SMS is the Ministry itself, as can be seen in the
example provided (“FROM: ***EMAIL.1: in case of consular emergency call
Embassy… More info www.exteriores.gob.es”).

At the request of the Ministry, it integrated the sending of these messages in the platform of
messaging of Telefónica de España, S.A., already existing, within the framework of the
relationship he had with said Ministry for the provision of various services.

It ends by adding that the Embassies or Consulates have the power to act
in consular emergency situations, such as arrests, issuance of documents
emergency travel to return to Spain, help contact relatives and
friends, or assist in case of catastrophes, for which purpose this service was developed in
collaboration with Telefónica de España, S.A.

Telefónica de España, S.A., which was expressly requested, did not provide any
document formalizing the Ministry's initiative with this operator.

FIFTH: On 07/05/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the MAEC entity, in accordance with the
provided in articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for alleged violations of articles 21 and 28.3 of the RGPD,
typified, respectively, in articles 83.5.b) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

In the same agreement to open the procedure, it was warned that the infractions
imputed, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of measures, in accordance
with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Once notified of the aforementioned initial agreement, the MAEC presented a written

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/29

allegations in which he requests the file of the sanctioning procedure of
accordance with the following considerations:

. The initiative "***PROGRAMA.1" derives from the obligations that consular assistance
imposes on the claimed (article 2.2.i) of Law 20/2014, of March 25, of the action
and the foreign service; Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of
04/23/1963; and article 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union).

. In 2015, when the collaboration of the MAEC with the
operators Telefónica de España, S.A.U. and Orange Spain, S.A.U. for development
of the aforementioned initiative, Law 40/2015, of October 1, of
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP) nor the RGPD.

. The claimant has not proven having received information about consulates in his
mobile terminal (the documentation provided does not include the telephone line number
recipient of the SMS to which it refers).

. Personal data remains in the custody of the telephone companies, without
that the MAEC carry out any data processing that conforms to the definition collected
in article 4.2 of the RGPD. Therefore, the Ministry cannot be considered as
responsible for the treatment, since it does not request, collect, store, access or
treats the data of the citizens who are clients of the telephone operators, nor does it know their
identity.

Thus, the MAEC has not provided at any time the name and number of
claimant's telephone number, so it is not possible to "unsubscribe" the applicant from any
file, as there is none that collects the identity, telephone number and travel plans of the
citizens who travel abroad with a mobile phone that works in Spain.

. Nor is the MAEC the sender of the messages, which lacks the facilities
technology to do so and has no way of detecting when a client of the
telephone operators use data networks when roaming. The senders are
telephone companies, which transfer the information provided by the MAEC,
simultaneously with other SMS related to the use and tariffs of the services
telephony, voice calls or mobile data usage while roaming.

. The MAEC cannot be sanctioned for not having signed the agreement regulated in the
article 28 of the RGPD, because it was not in force in 2015 and because said
agreement is not applicable, since the MAEC is not in charge of data processing
personal on behalf of the person in charge. The MAEC has not and will not have
such personal data, does not receive them from the companies participating in the initiative nor
treat on their behalf.

Currently this collaboration must be formalized through an agreement
administrative, of those regulated in articles 47 and following of the LRJSP, but not
from a data protection perspective.

. Corresponds to the telephone operators, at the time of data collection
of its clients, inform them of the purpose of the treatment, request their
consent to receive communications and indicate the way to exercise the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/29

rights that assist them. Consequently, the right to oppose to receive the
SMS referrals must be exercised by the claimant before the telephone operator with the
that has contracted its services, which is the owner and performs the treatment of
your personal data, and to which it corresponds to process the opposition.
   
SEVENTH: On 10/22/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense
Next:

1. That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanction
warning the MAEC entity, for infractions of articles 21 and 28.3
of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.b) and 83.4.a) of the same Regulation, and
classified as very serious and serious for prescription purposes in articles 72.1.k) and
73.k) of the LOPDGDD, respectively.

2. That the Director of the AEPD requires the claimed entity so that, in the
term to be determined, adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to
the personal data protection regulations, with the scope expressed in the
Fundamentals of Rights of the proposed resolution.

EIGHTH: Once the requested entity has been notified of the aforementioned resolution proposal,
receives a letter from the same in which it requests the file of the sanctioning procedure
without imposing measures or requiring only the formalization of an agreement
in accordance with the provisions of article 28.3 of the RGPD, since the MAEC entity
does not have the status of controller of the treatment of the program “***PROGRAMA.1”
and has not incurred in fraud or negligence, having followed a reasonable interpretation of the
rule.

The aforementioned entity bases its request on the following considerations:

1. The AEPD considers that the MAEC is the one who decides the ends and means of the
treatment that requires the application of the program “***PROGRAMA.1” and that this is
sufficient, in its opinion, for it to have the status of data controller, even
when you have not collected, nor do you have, nor have you ever had, access to the data that is
treat.

Faced with the considerations of the AEPD, it indicates that article 4 of the RGPD defines the
responsible for the treatment as the one who determines its purposes and means, without making
express mention of whether or not you have access to the data being processed.

He understands that, in this case, the Ministry defines the purposes (assistance to the Spanish
abroad), but it does not decide the means used (an SMS that is sent to
customers of the operators who have activated the roaming of their data together with the
rest of the messages of the operators themselves) for the fulfillment of the purpose (that the
assistance message from the MAEC reaches Spaniards abroad). The fact of
that the Ministry communicates to the operators the information that must be transmitted, in
"excel" format, is aimed at fulfilling the intended purpose, but does not imply that the
MAEC decides the means, which rather seem decided by the operators of
telephony, which use the same channel they use for the referral of other
messages to your customers at the same time.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/29

2. The MAEC does not have the status of data controller because it does not agree
to the personal data processed. This entity does not share the interpretation of the
AEPD in this regard, based on an assumption of data processing for
advertising and in a case of provision of services in accordance with Law 9/2017, of 8
November, of public sector contracts (LCSP).

Understands that resolving this issue, not provided for in the standard, requires a
interpretation, as evidenced by the fact that the AEPD bases its position on the
reports and guidelines mentioned in the motion for a resolution; and what to have
acted in accordance with the reasonable interpretation defended by the MAEC does not allow
appreciate any negligence or the concurrence of the subjective element of the
guilt, essential for the imposition of a sanction.

In the opinion of the MAEC, the application of the interpretation criteria of the norms that
contained in article 3 of the Civil Code would allow reaching the opposite conclusion to the
proposed by the AEPD, as set out below:

a) There is no rule that establishes that the data controller will be with
regardless of whether you have or have had access at any time to the data
treated.

b) Against this, there are provisions in the RGPD that presuppose that the person responsible for the
treatment has or has had access to the data, without prejudice to the fact that it may order
his treatment of others. Thus, the following forecasts can be mentioned:

. The MAEC, which does not collect the data, is not in a position to comply with the
obligations established in articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, provided for the
time the data is collected. According to these articles, which identify the
responsible for the treatment with whom it collects the data, the MAEC should comply
those obligations when a company collects data from a new customer.

. The MAEC cannot enforce the rights of the interested parties, so
should transfer those requests to the telephone operators.

. Article 28.3 of the RGPD provides that the contract or legal act that binds the
responsible for the treatment and the person in charge establishes the obligation of the latter to
Delete or return the data to the person in charge once the provision of the service has ended.
service. This allows us to understand that the person responsible is the one who has in his possession the
data and/or has power of disposal over them. Only in this case can
It is understood that its return or suppression proceeds.

c) Report 0007/2019 of the Legal Office of the AEPD and the Judgment of the Chamber of
the contentious-administrative of the Supreme Court 772, referring to assumptions
special (contractor in charge of treatment, in the first case, and treatment of
data for advertising purposes, in the second), configure the access and even the
ownership of the databases as a determining element of holding the
condition of data controller, the contrary conclusion being applicable only
in the specific cases contemplated (public procurement and treatment of
data for advertising purposes). This is what results from his analysis, in the way in which he exposes
next:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/29

. The aforementioned Report 0007/2019, which deals with the correct interpretation of what
provided in article 33.2 of the LOPDPGDD, refers to a case of
data processing commissioned by a Public Administration within the framework of the
LCSP and determines if the entities that act as concessionaires
Administrative staff in public services have the status of being in charge or
responsible for the treatments.

According to the MAEC, this report contains considerations that support the
identification of the person in charge of the treatment with the person in charge of the file in the
that the data is hosted, such as the one that indicates that access to the data by
of the manager for the provision of the service is not a data communication, which
which presupposes that the controller is the one in possession of the data (if what
What you want to avoid is that it is legally configured as a transfer of data, which
that materially it is, it is because it is assumed that the person responsible is the one
is in the power of the data); or when it is indicated that the person in charge will be deemed to
is responsible if it uses for its own purposes the data that has been communicated to it (the
reference to the data that the person in charge has communicated presupposes the
prior communication of the data by the person in charge and, therefore, that they are in their
can).

In the present case, there is no such communication because the MAEC does not have, nor has
never had access to customer data from telephone companies.
These are the ones that collect the data of their clients and those that have access to
they.

In any case, the AEPD report 0007/2020 represents an exception to the
general regime of conceptuación of the person in charge of the treatment; not transferable
to a different assumption such as the one analyzed in this proceeding.

. The Supreme Court Judgment 772/2020, refers to a case of
use of databases of third-party companies to make shipments
commercial.

This Judgment is based on provisions of the regulation of protection of
data specifically referring to the processing of data for advertising purposes,
assumption different from the one now analyzed, referring to the treatment of data for the
fulfillment of a purpose of public interest. Therefore, the conclusion that
The condition of data controller and its obligation to comply will fall on the MAEC.
manage the exercise of the right of opposition of the claimant, beyond
tell you to contact your telephone operator, it would be fully justified
if we were dealing with data processing for advertising purposes, but it is not
so clear that conclusion when we are outside that scope.

d) The obligations imposed on the data controller seek to guarantee
and protect the rights of the holders of personal data, for which
It seems reasonable that all these obligations are imposed on someone who, in a way
effective has the possibility of complying with them, being certainly complex that it can
do it, at least efficiently, who does not have and has never had access to the
data. This is an interpretation in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the standard.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/29

e) Finally, the respondent points out that the only statement about the possibility that
you have the status of data controller without having access to the data
treated is included in Directive 07/2020 of the European Committee for Data Protection
(CEPD), which is mentioned in the motion for a resolution, but it is a
statement devoid of explanation or argumentation that allows us to understand its basis;
and incompatible with that maintained by the MAEC, according to which the legislator attributes the
condition of responsible who does not have access to the data processed only in
cases of use of third-party databases to send advertising.

3. In relation to the considerations contained in the proposed resolution
regarding the infringement of article 83.5.b, for non-compliance with article 21, both
of the RGPD, reiterates the following:

a) The MAEC expressly answered the claimant's request, sending him to his
telephone operator, considering that this was the appropriate route for the role of the Ministry
in these data treatments.

b) The MAEC does not have the status of data controller, nor does it
You can exercise the right of opposition or cancellation.

c) The basis of the treatment carried out by the program “***PROGRAMA.1” is not the
marketing, as in the case contemplated in the Judgment of the Court
Supreme 772/2020, of June 15; it is reasonable to understand that the basis of treatment
of the data to apply the program “***PROGRAMA.1” would be the one foreseen in the article
6.1 e) RGDP, this is the treatment that is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment. The reason for processing the data is compliance
of a duty assumed by the State through the MAEC, of assistance to Spaniards in
the outside.

Therefore, the regulation of the right to oppose the processing of data for
commercial is not transferable to the treatment for the purpose that concerns us in this
case.

In this way, the conclusion that makes the MAEC bear the condition of responsible
of the treatment and its obligation to manage the exercise of the right of opposition of the
claimant would be justified if we were dealing with data processing for
advertising, but that conclusion is not so clear when we are outside that area.

Thus, the obligation of the data controller who entrusts the processing to an entity
that uses its own databases or those of third parties, to communicate the request to the
responsible for the file so that it meets the right of opposition of the
affected is not contemplated in any other case than that of carrying out
advertising campaigns. It is, therefore, a special rule that cannot be transferred to other
assumptions. This is the result of the literal wording of the applicable regulations, in particular the
article 51.4 GDPR.

Therefore, it can be reasonably concluded that the actions of the MAEC in referring the
concerned to your telephone operator, with which you have a contractual relationship

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/29

which is the determinant of receiving the SMS from the program “***PROGRAMA.1” when
activate the roaming of your data, does not imply any violation of article 21
GDPR.

4. The entity complained against considers the proposed sanctions of
agree with the following arguments:

a) The qualification of the MAEC as data controller should be reconsidered,
given that he does not have and has not had access at any time to the data that is processed
for purposes other than advertising, in addition to the dubious concurrence of the
requirement to define the means of treatment. On this matter, he adds that the last
Paragraph of Recital (81) of the RGPD allows us to deduce that the condition of
responsible for the treatment implies access to the data that is processed:
 
“(81) … Once the treatment on behalf of the person in charge has finished, the person in charge must, at
choice of the former, return or delete personal data, unless Union Law or
of the Member States applicable to the person in charge of the treatment obliges to keep the data”.

b) Even if the premises of the proposed resolution were accepted, the actions of the
MAEC has been based on a reasonable interpretation of the standard, so it cannot
neither fraud nor fault can be appreciated, and the subjective element of culpability does not concur
necessary for the imposition of a sanction, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 28 of Law 40/2015.

This is without prejudice to the convenience of formalizing an administrative agreement between the
MAEC and the telephone operators participating in the program “***PROGRAMA.1”
that collects the terms of the collaboration.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 10/26/2015, the MAEC entity ordered the development of a
program named “***PROGRAM.1”, configured as “… a service of
free information for citizens traveling from Spain abroad”, which
consists of sending an SMS to your mobile telephone terminal with the cities of that
country where there is an Embassy and Consulates of Spain and their corresponding numbers
consular emergency. This service is activated through the roaming system
“Roaming”, upon arrival in the country of destination.

For the start-up of this service, the MAEC agreed with the
operators Telefónica de España, S.A. and Orange Spain, S.A.U. what are you
entities send their clients an SMS with the information provided by the MAEC.
Customers receive this message when traveling abroad, upon arrival in the country of
destination, through the “Roaming” roaming system. information is transferred
provided by the MAEC, simultaneously with other SMS sent by the
operators related to the use and rates of telephony services, calls of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/29

voice or mobile data usage while roaming.

SECOND: There is no record in the proceedings of any document through which
formalize the provision of the service outlined in the First Proven Fact by
of the MAEC and the entities Telefónica de España, S.A. and Orange Spain, S.A.U.

In its response to the AEPD Inspection Services, dated 03/26/2021, the
MAEC stated that there is no record in the files of that Ministry of any agreement or
agreement signed with the aforementioned operators, nor with any other, nor any other
written document related to the campaign “***PROGRAMA.1”.

On 05/18/2021, the entity Orange Espagne, S.A.U. reported that it does not appear in
the databases of that merchant a document that formalizes the initiative
“***PROGRAM.1”.

Telefónica de España, S.A., which was expressly requested, did not provide any
document formalizing the Ministry's initiative with this operator.

THIRD: The entity Orange Espagne, S.A.U. I inform the Inspection Services
of the AEPD that the service "***PROGRAMA.1" is still active and is updated
periodically by the MAEC through the referral to the operators of a
Excel file with the information to be sent by SMS.

FOURTH: It appears in the proceedings, provided by the claimant, a text message
(SMS) sent in execution of the program “***PROGRAM.1”; listed as sender
“MAEC.info”, and with the following text:

“***PROGRAM.1. In case of consular emergency call Consulates in Paris… (no.
phone number), Bayonne (phone number)”.

FIFTH: The claimant has stated before this AEPD that the entity MAEC treated
your personal data, without your consent, for sending to your telephone terminal
mobile phone for text messages in the framework of the program “***PROGRAMA.1”, with
information about consulates.

SIXTH: On 04/24/2018, the claimant sent a letter to the MAEC entity in
the one that indicates your mobile telephone number and the entity with which you operate; and requests that
no notice of the program “***PROGRAM.1” is sent every time the operator
warns of the “Roaming” service, either through SMS or other means, and be excluded
of said program. In this writing, the claimant expressly requests that the
The requested Ministry assumes the necessary steps to formalize this request.

There is no record in the proceedings of any response issued by the MAEC to this request
exercise of rights formulated by the claimant.

SEVENTH: On 09/05/2018, the claimant reiterated his request to the MAEC
above, in order not to receive SMS from the program “***PROGRAMA.1” and for the
cancellation of your data in the file used for this purpose or any other similar
MAEC. He expressly requests to be informed in this regard.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/29

There is no record in the proceedings of any response issued by the MAEC to this request
exercise of rights formulated by the claimant.

EIGHTH: On the occasion of the claim transfer process, the entity MAEC
sent the claimant a response, dated 07/22/2019, in which he reports that the
SMS of the program “***PROGRAMA.1” is sent as a result of an agreement
that the Ministry signed with various telephone operators. Also, it indicates that
does not have the data of Spanish citizens traveling abroad, nor the
mobile number, unless they voluntarily enroll in the Registration application
of Travelers; and warns the claimant that "if you do not want to receive the aforementioned SMS
When you travel abroad, you must request it from your telephone operator as it is
holder of your personal data and your mobile number”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

In this case, the fact that the program “***PROGRAM.1”
is an initiative of the aforementioned Ministry, conceived as a service to the citizen that
travels from Spain abroad that said entity decides to provide due to the
competences granted by the regulations that apply to it.

Nor is it controversial that the initiative and development of the aforementioned program responds to
a clear public interest for the benefit of those citizens who move to the
abroad, so that their legitimacy and suitability are not questioned, nor the
proportionality of data processing with the intended purpose (the MAEC itself
states that the legal basis of the treatment, which is not the object of analysis in these
actions, is the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller).

Given that the execution of the program entails carrying out data processing
personal, in advance it is convenient to specify the character under which the entity
MAEC intervenes in the analyzed case, from the point of view of data protection
personal.

The aforementioned Ministry bases its allegations basically on denying its
participation in the events as the entity responsible or in charge of the treatment,
noting that it does not process the personal data of citizens who travel to the
foreigner, who does not have these data, does not register them in any database or
access them on behalf of the telephone operators. These are
operators, in the opinion of the MAEC, those that have the personal data used
for the sending of SMS that motivate the actions, which are registered

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/29

in their own files, in the custody of these companies; and they are the senders of
the messages in question.

For the same reason, the Ministry understands that it corresponds to the operators
mentioned request their clients' consent to receive communications, as well as
how to indicate the means for the exercise of their rights and attend to requests
that they formulate.

The figures of "responsible for the treatment" and "in charge of the treatment" are defined
in article 4 of the RGPD as follows:

. “Responsible for the treatment or responsible: the natural or legal person, public authority,
service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means of the
treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the ends and means
of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment
may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

. “In charge of the treatment or in charge: the natural or legal person, public authority,
service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the person responsible for the
treatment".

Article 24 of the RGPD, referring to the "Responsibility of the person responsible for the
treatment”, establishes the following:

"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as
risks of varying probability and severity to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical data, the controller will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to
in order to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this
Regulation. Such measures will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, among which
measures mentioned in section 1 will include the application, by the person in charge of the
treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies…”.

Report 0064/2020 of the Legal Office of the AEPD has emphatically expressed
that “The RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when addressing the regulation of the
right to the protection of personal data, which is based on the
principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as pointed out
repeatedly by the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is included in the
Statement of reasons for Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)”.

The report goes on to say the following:

“…the criteria on how to attribute the different roles remain the same (section 11),
reiterates that these are functional concepts, which are intended to assign responsibilities
according to the actual roles of the parties (paragraph 12), which implies that in most
of the assumptions must take into account the circumstances of the specific case (case by case)
attending to their actual activities instead of the formal designation of an actor as
"responsible" or "in charge" (for example, in a contract), as well as autonomous concepts,
whose interpretation must be carried out under the European regulations on the protection of
personal data (paragraph 13), and taking into account (paragraph 24) that the need for a
factual assessment also means that the role of a controller is not
derives from the nature of an entity that is processing data but from its activities
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/14

concrete in a specific context…”.

The concepts of controller and processor are not formal, but
functional and must attend to the specific case.

The data controller is from the moment it decides the purposes and
means of treatment, not losing such condition by leaving a certain margin
of action to the person in charge of the treatment or for not having access to the databases
of the manager.

This is unquestionably expressed in Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee for
Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
manager in the RGPD:

“A data controller is one who determines the purposes and means of processing.
treatment, that is, the why and how of the treatment. The data controller must
decide on both ends and means. However, some more practical aspects of
implementation ("non-essential means") can be left to the person in charge of the
treatment. It is not necessary that the person in charge actually has access to the data that is
they are trying to qualify themselves as responsible” (the translation is ours).

Article 28.10 of the RGPD also addresses the criteria for determining the purposes
and means of treatment to establish the responsibility of the person in charge of the treatment.
treatment in the commission of infractions to the Regulation itself. according to this
article, if the person in charge determines the purposes and means of the treatment, it will be considered
responsible for it:

“10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a data processor
infringes this Regulation when determining the purposes and means of the treatment, it will be
considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said treatment”.

In the present case, it is stated that the MAEC is responsible for data processing
now analyzed, since, as defined in article 4.7 of the RGPD, it is the
entity that determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out. In its
The condition of data controller is obliged to comply with the provisions of
the transcribed article 24 of the RGPD and, in particular, what is related to the effective control and
continuation of the “appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and
be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this Regulation”, between
those found in article 28 of the RGPD in relation to the
in charge of the treatments that act in the name and on behalf of the aforementioned
Ministry.

In this sense, and in relation to the allegation made by the MAEC in its written
allegations to the initial agreement, according to which the telephone operators are the
that have the databases and, therefore, do not act as managers
but as responsible for these treatments, in the Guidelines 07/2020 of the
European Committee for Data Protection (CEPD), on the concepts of responsible
of the treatment and manager in the RGPD, it is indicated that “42. It is not necessary that the
data controller actually has access to the data being processed.
processing. Anyone who outsources a processing activity and, in doing so, has a
determining influence on the purpose and (essential) means of processing (e.g.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/29

example, adjusting the parameters of a service in such a way as to influence whose
personal data will be processed), should be considered as responsible even if
you will never have real access to the data” (the translation is ours). The MAEC determines
who can send the messages that are the object of the program
“***PROGRAM.1” developed by the Ministry itself.

Likewise, the legal report of the AEPD dated 11/20/2019, with internal reference
0007/2019, and STS 772/2020 (for all), analyze the legal figure of person in charge of the
treatment from the perspective of the RGPD, which regulates this figure in its article 28.

The existence of a data processor depends on a decision taken by
the person in charge of the treatment, who may decide to carry out certain
treatment operations or contract all or part of the treatment with a
duty manager.

The essence of the function of the person in charge of the treatment is that the personal data
are processed in the name and on behalf of the data controller. In practice,
it is the person in charge who determines the purpose and the means, at least the essential ones,
while the person in charge of the treatment has the function of providing services to the
responsible for the treatment. In other words, “acting in the name and on behalf of
of the data controller” means that the data controller is at the
servicing the interest of the controller in carrying out a task
and that, therefore, follows the instructions established by it, at least in
what refers to the purpose and the essential means of the entrusted treatment.

The person in charge of the treatment is the one who has the obligation to guarantee the application
of the data protection regulations and the protection of the rights of the
interested, as well as being able to demonstrate it (articles 5.2, 24, 28 and 32 of the RGPD).
The control of compliance with the law extends throughout the treatment,
From the beginning to the end. The data controller must act, in
in any case, in a diligent, conscious, committed and active manner.

This mandate of the legislator is independent of whether the treatment is carried out
directly the person in charge of the treatment or that it is carried out using a
treatment manager.

In addition, the treatment carried out materially by a treatment manager for
account of the person in charge of the treatment belongs to the sphere of action of this
last, in the same way as if he did it directly himself. The person in charge of
treatment, in the case examined, is an extension of the person responsible for the
treatment.

In light of the principle of proactive responsibility (art 5.2 RGPD), the person in charge of the
treatment must be able to demonstrate that it has taken into account all the elements
provided for in the GDPR.

The data controller must take into account whether the data processor
provides adequate documentation that demonstrates said compliance, policies of
privacy protection, file management policies, privacy policies
information security, external audit reports, certifications,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/29

management of rights exercises, etc.

Likewise, before outsourcing a treatment and in order to avoid possible violations
rights and freedoms of those affected, the data controller must
enter into a contract, other legal act or binding agreement with the other entity that
establish clear and precise data protection obligations.

The person in charge of the treatment can only carry out treatments on the instructions
documentation of the controller, unless required to do so by law
of the Union or of a Member State, which is not the case. In this regard, article 29
of the RGPD refers to the “Processing under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
of treatment” in the following terms:

“The person in charge of the treatment and any person acting under the authority of the person in charge
or the person in charge and has access to personal data may only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless they are obliged to do so under the Law of the
Union or of the Member States.

The person in charge of the treatment also has the obligation to collaborate with the
responsible for guaranteeing the rights of the interested parties and fulfilling the obligations
of the person in charge of the treatment in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 28 of the
GDPR (and related).

Therefore, the data controller must establish clear modalities for
said assistance and give precise instructions to the person in charge of the treatment on how
comply with them adequately and previously document it through a contract or
or in another (binding) agreement and check at all times of the development of the
contract its fulfillment in the manner established therein.

You will only be fully responsible when you are fully responsible
of the damages caused in terms of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties
affected. All of this, without avoiding the responsibility that may be incurred by the
responsible for the treatment in order to avoid those damages.

In the present case, the correct legal classification in accordance with the RGPD of the
telephone operators to which the MAEC commissioned the sending of the SMS object of the
program “***PROGRAMA.1” is the one in charge of the treatment, since,
act fully in the name and on behalf of the MAEC, for the benefit of this Ministry,
which is the entity responsible for the treatment for all purposes in terms of
Data Protection.

The arguments presented are considered sufficient to respond to the
allegations to the proposed resolution raised by the entity MAEC.

Without considering these arguments, the aforementioned entity alleges that it does not intervene in the
made under the condition of data controller. Although he accepts that it defines
the purposes for which personal data is processed within the framework of the program
“***PROGRAMA.1”, denies that the MAEC is the entity that determines the means, that
are decided by the operators. According to the respondent, its action in this regard
it is limited to communicating to the operators the information that must be transmitted, and they are
these operators who decide to send SMS messages through them
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/29

channels they use to send other own messages to their customers in
roaming.

This Agency does not share the approach formulated by the MAEC entity.

It is the MAEC who decides to report on the situation of the Embassies and Consulates
of Spain abroad and the form of contact with these centers; and the entity that
decides the specific information to be transmitted, its specific recipients
(customers of the telephone operators with whom the execution of the program agreed
traveling abroad with roaming enabled) and how the information will be delivered.
information (SMS message).

In short, it is the MAEC that determines the data processing operations
personal to be carried out. It is the same as saying that the MAEC is the entity
which determines why (the purpose) and how (the means) personal data is processed
to achieve the intended purpose.

Regarding the “means of treatment”, Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee
Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
manager in the RGPD, already cited, indicate the following:

“As far as the determination of the means is concerned, a distinction can be made between
essential and non-essential resources. The "essential means" are traditionally and inherently
reserved to the data controller. While non-essential media also
can be determined by the person in charge, the essential means must be determined by
the data controller. "Essential media" are media that are closely
related to the purpose and scope of the treatment, such as the type of personal data that
are processed ("what data will be processed?"), the duration of the treatment ("for how long will
will treat?"), the categories of recipients ("who will have access to them?"), and the categories
data subjects ("whose personal data is being processed"). Along with the purpose of
treatment, the essential means are also closely related to the issue
whether the treatment is legal, necessary and proportionate. "Non-essential means" refers
to more practical aspects of the application, such as choosing a particular type of
software or detailed security measures that can be left to the person in charge of the
treatment for you to decide” (the translation is ours).

There is no doubt about the condition of MAEC responsible for processing,
that is not affected by the fact that it agrees with other entities (the
telephone operators mentioned in this act) the execution of the operations of
treatment according to your instructions. It so happens that even in this
In this case, there is doubt about the status of those in charge of the treatment that should be attributed
to those operators, which are separate and independent entities of the
responsible for acting for the benefit and on behalf of the latter and according to its instructions.

These and not others are the circumstances that make up the concepts of responsible and
in charge of the treatment and the criteria for the distribution of their respective functions,
that have not changed with the approval of the RGPD.

Likewise, the MAEC reiterates that it cannot be attributed the status of responsible for the
treatment because it does not access the data, and points out in this regard that there is no standard
according to which the data controller will be regardless of whether
whether or not you have access to the personal data processed at any time.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/29

The respondent understands that in order to resolve this issue, a
interpretation, which the AEPD bases on a case of data processing for
advertising and in a case of provision of services in accordance with the LCSP, whose
conclusions cannot be transferred to the present case, contrary to what is indicated in the
resolution proposal.

As the MAEC rightly says in its allegations, the rule does not provide whether the person responsible for the
treatment, to be, access or not the data subject to treatment. And it is so
because the RGPD already establishes as sufficient to grant that condition the fact of
that the intervening entity determines the purposes and means of the treatment, so that
no other requirement or condition can be added with interpretations of the standard
that said norm does not foresee and, even less, consider that other requirement as
preponderant to the point of annulling what the norm does establish. The result of the
interpretation made by the MAEC in its pleadings brief would give rise to a
case in which an entity determines the purposes and means of the treatment, but
is not considered responsible for the treatment for a circumstance that the RGPD does not
contemplates, as is the access or not to personal data by that entity.

The most accurate conclusion leads to understand that the entity that decides the purposes and
means of processing is responsible regardless of whether that entity accesses or
not to the personal data processed. As noted above, this is also
the position defended by the European Committee for Data Protection in the Guidelines
07/2020.

Contrary to what was stated by the aforementioned Ministry, this Agency bases its conclusion
prior to what is established in the standard and in consolidated criteria, even prior to the
RPGD that, as has been said, has not modified the concepts of responsible and
treatment manager.

The assumptions of data processing for advertising purposes and within the framework of a
contract for the provision of services in accordance with the LCSP, analyzed in the STS
772/2020 and in the legal report of the AEPD dated 11/20/2019, with reference
internal 0007/2019, respectively, so repeated in the pleadings brief of the
MAEC, are cited in the resolution proposal and in this act as examples of
processing carried out on behalf of the data controller without this
entity accesses the data used or the use of personal databases of
third parties.

III

The rights of individuals regarding the protection of personal data are
regulated in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD and 13 to 18 of the LOPDGDD. I know
contemplate the rights of access, rectification, deletion, opposition, right to
limitation of treatment and right to portability.

The formal aspects related to the exercise of these rights are established in the
articles 12 of the RGPD and 12 of the LOPDGDD.

Article 12 “Transparency of information, communication and modalities of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/29

exercise of rights” of the RGPD establishes the following:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the interested party
all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication with
in accordance with articles 15 to 22 and 34 regarding the treatment, in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible, in clear and simple language, in particular any information
specifically targeted at a child. The information will be provided in writing or by other
means, including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by the interested party, the
Information may be provided verbally as long as the identity of the interested party is proven.
By other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights under
of articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2, the person responsible
will not refuse to act at the request of the data subject in order to exercise their rights under
Articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are unable to identify the
interested.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their actions
on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in any case, in the
period of one month from receipt of the request. This period may be extended for another
two months if necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of requests. The
responsible will inform the interested party of any of said extensions within a month to
from receipt of the request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested
submit the application electronically, the information will be provided electronically.
electronic when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.
mode."

4. If the person in charge of the treatment does not process the request of the interested party, he will inform him without
delay, and no later than one month after receipt of the request, of the reasons for
its non-action and the possibility of presenting a claim before a control authority
and to exercise legal actions.

5. The information provided under articles 13 and 14 as well as all communication and
any action carried out under articles 15 to 22 and 34 will be free of charge.
When the requests are manifestly unfounded or excessive, especially due to
its repetitive nature, the data controller may: a) charge a reasonable fee in
depending on the administrative costs incurred to facilitate the information or communication
or perform the requested action, or b) refuse to act on the request. The responsible
of the treatment will bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or
excessive request.

6. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 11, when the data controller has
reasonable doubts in relation to the identity of the natural person who makes the request to which
referred to in articles 15 to 21, you may request that additional information be provided
necessary to confirm the identity of the interested party.

7. The information that must be provided to the interested parties under articles 13 and 14
may be transmitted in combination with standardized icons that allow the provision of
easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible form an adequate overview of the
planned treatment. The icons that are presented in electronic format will be legible
mechanically.

8. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92
in order to specify the information to be presented through icons and the
procedures for providing standardized icons”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/29

For its part, article 12 “General provisions on the exercise of rights”
of the LOPDGDD, in sections 2, 3 and 4, adds the following:

"two. The person responsible for the treatment will be obliged to inform the affected party about the means at its disposal.
disposition to exercise the corresponding rights. Media should be easily
accessible to the affected. The exercise of the right may not be denied for the sole reason
to choose the affected by another means.
3. The person in charge may process, on behalf of the person in charge, the requests for exercise
formulated by those affected by their rights if this is established in the contract or legal act
that link them.
4. Proof of compliance with the duty to respond to the request to exercise their rights.
rights formulated by the affected party will fall on the person responsible”.

When data processing is carried out on behalf of a data controller
treatment, in accordance with the provisions of article 28 of the RGPD, the
in charge of the treatment “will assist the person in charge… so that he can comply with
its obligation to respond to requests that have as its object the exercise of the
rights of the interested parties established in Chapter III”. This obligation must
be stipulated in the contract or legal act that binds the person in charge with respect to the
responsible (section 3 of the aforementioned article 28 of the RGPD).

In accordance with the provisions of these rules, the data controller
must arbitrate formulas and mechanisms to facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their
rights, which will be free (without prejudice to the provisions of articles 12.5 and 15.3
of the GDPR); and must give instructions to the person in charge of the treatment, if any,
to send you the requests you receive or to process them conveniently,
if so provided in the contract or legal act that binds them. Also, the
responsible for the treatment or the person in charge, where appropriate, are obliged to respond
requests made no later than one month, unless they can show that
they are not in a position to identify the interested party; as well as to express their reasons
in case they do not respond to the request.

From the foregoing, it follows that the request for the exercise of rights made by the
The interested party must be answered in any case, falling on the person in charge
proof of compliance with this duty.

This obligation to act is not enforceable when the data controller
can demonstrate that it is not in a position to identify the interested party (in cases
referred to in article 11.2 of the RGPD). In cases other than those provided for in this
article, in which the data controller has reasonable doubts in relation to
with the identity of the applicant, may require additional information necessary to
confirm that identity.

In this regard, Recital 64 of the RGPD is expressed in the following terms:

“(64) The controller must use all reasonable measures to verify the
identity of data subjects requesting access, in particular in the context of services
online and online identifiers. The person in charge must not keep personal data with
the sole purpose of being able to respond to possible requests”.

Regarding the right of opposition, the RGPD stipulates in its article 21 what
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/29

Next:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to object at any time, for reasons related to
with your particular situation, to which personal data that concerns you are subject to a
treatment based on the provisions of article 6, paragraph 1, letters e) or f), including the
profiling on the basis of those provisions. The data controller
will stop processing personal data, unless it proves compelling legitimate reasons for the processing.
treatment that prevail over the interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or
for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.

2. When the processing of personal data is for the purpose of direct marketing, the
The interested party will have the right to oppose the processing of personal data at any time.
concerning you, including profiling to the extent that it is related to
said marketing.

3. When the interested party opposes the treatment for direct marketing purposes, the data
data will no longer be processed for said purposes.

4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the right
indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned to the interested party and will be
presented clearly and apart from any other information.

5. In the context of the use of information society services, and notwithstanding
provided for in Directive 2002/58/EC, the interested party may exercise their right to object by
automated means that apply technical specifications.

6. When personal data is processed for scientific or historical research purposes or for
statistics in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, the interested party shall have the right, by
reasons related to your particular situation, to oppose the processing of personal data
that concern him, unless it is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out by
reasons of public interest”.

The owner of the personal data may exercise before the
responsible for the treatment a series of rights, among which is the right to
opposition to treatment.

In this case, there is evidence that the claimant formally addressed the MAEC stating
your opposition to the use of your personal data within the framework of the program
“***PROGRAMA.1”, without the claimed entity responding to the exercise of the
law. Not even the MAEC, as data controller, has provided the
mechanisms and procedures necessary to address the exercise of rights by
citizens, even going so far as to affirm that this obligation corresponds to the
carriers that serve you.

Obviously, being the MAEC the entity responsible for the treatment, the right
exercised by the claimant on two occasions cannot be understood as addressed, as
said entity intends, with the response by which the claimant is informed that in order to
To satisfy your claim, you must go to the telephone operators. It is given
circumstance, on the other hand, that the two requests to exercise rights
made by the claimant were not addressed by the MAEC and the response to which
this entity refers to is provided during the processing of transfer of the claim
carried out by this Agency in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the
LOPDGDD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/29

   
Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, the aforementioned facts
represent a violation of the provisions of article 21 of the RGPD, which gives rise to the
application of the corrective powers that article 58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants to
the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Failure to comply with the indicated precept is typified as an infraction in the
section 5.b) of article 83 of the RGPD, which under the heading “General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual global turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

(…)

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, the LOPDGDD in its article 72, "Infringements
considered very serious”, states the following:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

(…)

k) The impediment or the hindrance or the repeated non-attention of the exercise of the rights
established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

On this issue, Supreme Court Judgment 772/2020, of June 15,
declares the following:

"The sanctioned conduct of obstruction or impediment by XXX of the exercise by your client
of the right to oppose the processing of your data, it is stated that said company does not
adopted any kind of measure or precaution to avoid sending advertising to the
email addresses of your client by those companies to which
commissioned the realization of advertising campaigns.
The adoption of the necessary measures or precautions to ensure the effectiveness of the right to
opposition to the processing of your data by XXX, as responsible for the file,
subsist even if the advertising campaigns are not carried out using the data of their own
files, but with databases of other companies contracted by XXX, and in this case
It was proven that the appellant did not notify the companies with which it contracted the
realization of advertising services the opposition of the complainant to receive advertising from XXX,
nor in the end did he take any provision to ensure the exclusion of his client from the shipments
advertisers contracted with third parties”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/29

IV

Secondly, the claimed entity is charged with the violation of article 28 of the
RGPD, “In charge of the treatment”. In section 3, this precept establishes:

"3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the person in charge with respect to the
responsible and establishes the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations and rights of the
responsible. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions of the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a third country or
an international organisation, unless required to do so under Union law
or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in such a case, the person in charge will inform the
responsible for that legal requirement prior to treatment, unless such Law prohibits it by
important reasons of public interest;
b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respecting confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another person in charge of the
treatment;
e) will assist the person in charge, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that it can comply with
their obligation to respond to requests that have as their object the exercise of rights
of the interested parties established in chapter III;
f) will help the person in charge to guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations established in the
articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment and the information to
disposal of the manager;
g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
ends the provision of treatment services, and will delete existing copies unless
that the conservation of personal data is required by virtue of the Law of the Union or of
the member states;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate the
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as to allow and
contribute to the performance of audits, including inspections, by the person in charge or
another auditor authorized by said person in charge.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge will inform
immediately to the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of the
Member states".

These specific obligations may be supervised by the authorities of
data protection, without prejudice to the control that may be carried out in relation to
with compliance with the Regulation or the LOPDGDD by the person responsible for the
treatment.

In accordance with the provisions of article 28 RGPD, the person in charge and the person in charge
of data processing must regulate the processing of data in a contract or act
legal that binds the person in charge with respect to the person in charge; that contract or legal act
must establish the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, the obligations and rights of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/29

responsible etc

In this case, there is no evidence that the MAEC entity and the telephone operators
responsible for transferring to citizens who travel abroad the information
arranged within the framework of the program "***PROGRAMA.1" had formalized any
contract or legal act that regulates the use of the personal data of those
citizens by the operators, contrary to the provisions of the aforementioned article
28.3 of the GDPR.

The need to formalize the performance of processing on behalf of third parties
by means of a writing, or in any way that allows to prove its celebration and
content, was already regulated in the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data (LOPD). Therefore, the breach of
this obligation on the part of the MAEC is not justified by the fact that the initiative
“***PROGRAMA.1” had been arranged prior to the application of the RGPD or
of the LRJSP, contrary to what was indicated by said entity in its allegations. Either
This circumstance exempts the respondent from the obligation to adapt their actions to the
cited norms, once they were fully applicable.

Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, the aforementioned facts
represent a violation of the provisions of article 28.3 of the RGPD, typified as
infringement in section 4.a) of article 83 of the RGPD, which under the rubric
"General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines", which establishes the
Next:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, the LOPDGDD in its article 73 k), "Infringements
considered serious”, states the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

k) Entrust data processing to a third party without the prior formalization of a contract or
another written legal act with the content required by article 28.3 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”.

v

Once verified that the entity carried out the typical actions -infringement of the
established in articles 21 and 28.3 of the RGPD-, we must analyze if the
subjective element of guilt.
           
The presence of the subjective element is essential to demand in the field of Law
Administrative Sanctioning responsibility for the illicit committed, since it does not fit in
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/29

this framework impose sanctions based on the strict liability of the alleged
offender. Thus, in STC 76/1999 the High Court affirms that the sanctions
administrative ones participate in the same nature as criminal ones, being one of the
manifestations of the ius puniendi of the State, and that, as a requirement derived from the
principles of legal certainty and criminal legality enshrined in articles 9.3 and
25.1 of the CE, the presence of the element of guilt is essential as
condition for the creation of sanctioning responsibility.

The principle of culpability is required in the sanctioning procedure and thus the STC
246/1991 considers inadmissible in the field of sanctioning administrative law
a liability without fault. But the principle of fault does not imply that it can only
punish an intentional action and in this regard article 28 of the Law
40/2015 of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, under the heading "Responsibility",
provides the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes them capacity to act,
affected groups, unions and entities without legal personality and estates
independent or autonomous, who are responsible for them by way of fraud or
fault".

The facts set forth in the preceding Basis show that the
claimed did not act with the diligence to which it was obliged. In this case, it turns out
It is obvious that the program “***PROGRAMA.1” entails carrying out activities of
personal data processing. Even so, the MAEC entity ordered its execution without
enable adequate mechanisms and procedures to attend to the rights of
interested parties and entrusted third parties with sending the messages that
constitute the main object of the program without adopting the specific formalities
imposed by the applicable regulations.

This action of the MAEC, which materializes in the infractions of which
blames the aforementioned entity, suffers from a serious lack of diligence.

The Supreme Court (STS April 16, 1991 and STS April 22, 1991) considers
that from the culpability element it follows “that the action or omission, qualified as
infraction punishable administratively, must be, in any case, attributable to its
author, by intent or recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance. The same
The Court reasons that "it is not enough... to exculpate the behavior
typically unlawful the invocation of the absence of fault" but it is necessary
“that the diligence that was required by the person who alleges its non-existence has been used”
(STS January 23, 1998).

Also connected with the degree of diligence that the data controller is
obliged to deploy in the fulfillment of the obligations imposed by the
data protection regulations can be cited the SAN of 10/17/2007 (Rec. 63/2006),
which specified: “(...) the Supreme Court has been understanding that there is imprudence
whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded, that is, when the offender fails to
behaves with due diligence."
 
Furthermore, the National Court in matters of data protection of
personal character, has declared that "simple negligence or breach of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/29

the duties that the Law imposes on the persons responsible for files or the
data processing to exercise extreme diligence...” (SAN June 29, 2001).

It is concluded, therefore, contrary to what was objected by the MAEC entity, that the element
subjective is present in the two imputed infractions.

SAW

On the other hand, article 83.7 of the RGPD provides that, without prejudice to the
corrective powers of the control authorities under art. 58, paragraph 2,
each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State.

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment”, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of the
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on the
Public administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are related
with the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
I) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any of the
the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the authority of
protection of data that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning them with
warning. The resolution will also establish the measures to be adopted so that
stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/29

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and directors, and the
existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that had not been
duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official Gazette of the corresponding State or Autonomous Community.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that fall
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the entities
of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific”.

Thus, considering the possibility contemplated in this precept to correct the
actions of those responsible that do not comply with the regulations for the protection of
personal data, when those responsible listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of the aforementioned Law
Organic, in this case it is appropriate to impose on the claimed entity, that is, on the entity
MAEC, a warning sanction.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish the measures
that it is appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases, the effects of the infraction are corrected
that had been committed and the necessary adaptation is carried out, in this case, to
the requirements contemplated in articles 21 and 28.3 of the RGPD, as well as the
provision of means accrediting compliance with the requirements.

Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 77 of the LOPDGDD, it is appropriate
require the responsible entity so that, within the term indicated in the operative part,
adapt its actions to the personal data protection regulations, with the scope
expressed in the previous Foundations of Law. Specifically, you must set
the mechanisms and management processes necessary to enable the attention of the
rights recognized to the interested parties and formalize, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 28.3 of the RGPD, the relationship that binds the MAEC and the operators of
telephony within the framework of the “***PROGRAMA.1” program. Also, you must attend to the
right exercised by the claimant and communicate to the telephone operators the
decision adopted in this regard so that they stop sending said claimant
SMS messages within the framework of the program “***PROGRAMA.1”.

In this regard, it is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body
can be considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with
the Control Authority” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such
conduct at the time of opening an administrative sanctioning procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/29

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE on the entity MINISTRIES OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION, with CIF ***CIF.1, for the infraction of the
articles 21 and 28.3 of the RGPD, typified, respectively, in articles 83.5.b) and
83.4.a) of the same Regulation, and classified as very serious and serious for the purposes of
prescription in articles 72.1.k) and 73.k) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: TO REQUEST the entity MINISTRIES OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION, so that, within three months, as soon as
from the notification of this resolution, adapt its actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundation of
Right V, and justify before this Spanish Data Protection Agency the attention
of this requirement. The text of the resolution establishes which have been
the infractions committed and the facts that have given rise to the violation of the
data protection regulations, from which it is clearly inferred what are the
measures to be adopted, without prejudice to the type of procedures, mechanisms or
specific instruments to implement them correspond to the sanctioned party, since
is the data controller who fully knows your organization and must
decide, based on proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply
with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity MINISTRIES OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/29

If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

