

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company



The control of compliance with obligations in the dissemination of business communications was initiated on the basis of 17 initiatives received by the Office. Commercial communications were sent through e-mail messages that were sent from several e-mail addresses and contained offers of legal services in the field of solving traffic violations and linked to several Internet sites where these services were provided. Pre-inspection investigations revealed that the holders of the domain names from which the commercial messages were disseminated are different entities. The websites to which the commercial communication referred at the time of the inspection were either no longer functional or referred to the inspected person as the operator of the website in question or the website was redirected to him. However, the inspected person did not cooperate in any way during the inspection, did not respond to the Office's repeated calls. For failure to cooperate, she was fined CZK 50,000. From the statement of the hosting service provider on the domains in question, it was found that several changes were made between 2012 and 2019. These were changes in relation to moving the domains on which the web presentations and services were provided, the invoicing recipient was also changed, a copy of the website was created and the project was launched in parallel on two different domains. At this time, the hosting provider was contacted by two website operators. With regard to these established facts, the Office performed a preview of the website archive in relation to the historical operators of the websites in question, in order to find out which company operated the website at the time of the individual mailings, and thus for whose benefit the business communications in question were sent. However, it was not possible to identify a specific responsible person from these findings, as there were 8 companies that were linked in various ways (for example, by the person of the executive, the seat or other information listed on the website) and that changed over time, which made it impossible to clearly prove , who is the sender of the messages in question.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2019 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 2nd half-year > Business companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



