Opinion 25/2021 on the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Lithuania regarding the approval of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 20 July 2021

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
PREFIX .............................................................................................................................6
2.2.1
GENERAL REMARKS.........................................................................................................6
2.2.2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ...........................................................6
2.2.3
STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS ......................................................................................10
2.2.4
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ..........................................................................................10
2.2.5
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS.............................................................................................11
2.2.6
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.....................................................................12
2.2.7
2.2.8
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................13
Conclusions / Recommendations.................................................................................................13
Final Remarks ...............................................................................................................................15

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference to  Article 43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

3

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 43(1)(a).
The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which will
contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

4.

The  Lithuanian  SA  (hereinafter “LT  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  under
Article 43 (1) (a) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 28 May 2021.

The LT SA will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the LT SA is tasked by national
law to carry out the accreditation of certification bodies. To this end, the LT SA has developed a set of
requirements  specifically  for  accreditation  of  certification  bodies in  conjunction  with  a  set  of
certification criteria that is yet to be formally approved.

This  assessment  of  LT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  is  aimed  at  examining  on  variations
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Indeed,  according  to  the
Guidelines, following the approach provided by the Annex (where practical) is a good practice, even
where supervisory authorities perform accreditation pursuant to Article 43(1)(a), as it is the case here.

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

4

5.

6.

7.

8.

Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent
approach regarding the accreditation of certification bodies.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the LT
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the LT SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the LT SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:

a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering

any deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied

by the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

Adopted

5

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 PREFIX

10.

11.

12.

The Board acknowledges that the accreditation requirements drafted by the LT SA are presented as
an Annex to the Description of the Procedure for Accreditation of Certification Bodies. The description
of that procedure has not been provided to the EDPB since it is not a requirement for the accreditation
of certification bodies per se.

2.2.2 GENERAL REMARKS

The  Board  notes  that  some  terms  in  the  LT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  are  not  used
consistently with the Guidelines and the Annex, such as  ‘personal data protection operations’ instead
of ‘personal data processing operations’; ‘certification object’ instead of ‘object of certification’; ‘the
entity subject to certification’ instead of ‘the applicant’ or ‘the client’; ‘earlier [versions]’ instead of
‘previous  [versions]’;  ‘experience’  instead  of  ‘expertise’;  ‘conformity  assessment’  instead  of
‘evaluation’; “enable [the LT SA] to familiarize with” instead of “made fully accessible [to the SA]”;
‘management body’ instead of ‘management system’ etc. Moreover, in Section 7.1, paragraph 1, of
draft accreditation requirements, the reference to Article 43(1)(b) of the GDPR and the ‘additional
requirements’ established by the LT SA is not entirely accurate, since it is the LT SA which is competent
to perform accreditation of certifications bodies pursuant to Article 43(1)(a) of the GDPR. In order to
avoid confusion, the terms used should be aligned with the Guidelines and the Annex definitions,
where possible, and used consistently. Therefore, with the aim to facilitate the assessment, the Board
encourages the LT SA to amend the draft requirements accordingly.

2.2.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION

The  Board  notes that,  according  to  the  general draft  accreditation requirements  in  section  4.1.1
(“Legal responsibility”), the certification body must be able at any time to prove to the Inspectorate
that “no bankruptcy proceedings have been instituted against the certification body, for example, by
providing an extract from the Register of Legal Entities”. However, the same clause is reproduced
under the general requirements outlined in section 4.3 (“Liability and financing”) with an additional
reference to insolvency or liquidation proceedings along with bankruptcy. In this regard, the Board
acknowledges that the aim in both cases is to make sure that the certification body is able to exercise
the certification activity with full legal responsibility, including for example to pay compensations if
necessary. Nevertheless, the Board encourages the LT SA to revise both requirements so as to avoid
any redundancy and inconsistency.

Adopted

6

13. With  regard  to  section  4.1.2  (“Certification  agreement”)  of  the  LT  SA’s  draft  accreditation
requirements, the Board notes that the first paragraph states that the certification agreement shall
be “in writing”. In order to ensure that electronic certification agreements are also covered, the EDPB
encourages the LT SA to replace “in writing” by “in written form” or equivalent wording.

14.

15.

16.

17.

In paragraph 1 of the said section, it is established that the certification agreement shall require that
the applicant always complies with both the general certification requirements of the Standard ISO
17065 and the certification criteria established by the certification body and approved by the LT SA in
accordance with Article 43(2)(b) and Article 42(5) of the GDPR. In this regard, since certification criteria
may be established by scheme owners who do not necessarily act as a certification bodies, the EDPB
encourages  the  LT  SA  to  amend  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  by  replacing  the  term
‘certification  body’  with  ‘scheme owner’. In addition,  since  according  to with Article 43(2)(b)  and
Article 42(5) of the GDPR , the certification bodies may be accredited to conduct certification under
the criteria approved by the competent SA, or even by the Board, if those criteria are identified as
suitable  for  common  certification  and  result  in  a  European  Data  Protection  Seal,  the  EDPB
recommends  amending  the  requirement  so  as  to  take  into  account  that  the  applicant  could  be
required to comply with those criteria approved by the Board at Union level.

Also in section 4.1.2, paragraph 2, it is stated that the certification agreement shall require that the
applicant provides the SA with all necessary information “including confidential information on the
certification procedure to the extent that it is related to compliance with personal data protection
requirements”. The Board considers that the wording of the draft requirement is not in line with the
Annex - which refers to the transparency towards the SA “with respect to the certification procedure
including contractually confidential matters related to data protection compliance” - and encourages
the LT SA to redraft the requirement so as to reflect better what it is stated in the Annex.

Section  4.1.2,  paragraph  3,  of  the  LT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  provides  that  the
certification agreement shall not reduce the responsibility of the applicant “or the certification body
set forth in Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. The Board believes that the reference to the compliance of
the  certification  body  with  the  GDPR  is  not  a  matter  that  should  be  included  in  the  certification
agreement and encourages the LT SA to delete it.

In paragraph 5 of section 4.1.2, it is expected that the certification agreement shall “establish the
applicable  certification  criteria  and  methods,  criteria  for  assessment  of  the  certification  object
(including  assessment  if  the  certification  body  has  sufficient  competence  within  the  context  of
assessment  of  the  certification  object),  deadlines,  procedures  and  the  responsibility  of  the  entity
subject  to  certification  to  follow  the  deadlines  and  procedures  related  to  certification  or  renewal
thereof provided for in the agreement, the procedure established by the certification body and, where
applicable,  other  ISO  standards”. The  Board  understands  that  for  transparency  reasons  this
requirement  mentions  in  detail  several  aspects  related  to  the  certification  procedure  (criteria,
methods,  deadlines,  procedures  and  responsibilities)  going  beyond  those  required  in  the  Annex.
However, for the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the LT SA to specify that the requirement can
be met by including in the certification agreement a reference to the relevant documentation of the
certification mechanism in which these aspects are described in detail.

18.

Section 4.1.2 of the Annex, paragraph 8, provides that the certification agreement includes rules on
the necessary precautions for the investigation of complaints. This element is not mentioned in the
corresponding paragraph of section 4.1.2 of the LT SA’s draft accreditation requirements among the

Adopted

7

19.

20.

21.

issues  that  certification  agreement  shall  address.  Hence,  the Board  recommends including  such
element in the draft accreditation requirements in line with the Annex.

Section  4.1.2  of  the  LT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  paragraph  9,  stipulates  that  the
certification agreement shall refer to the applicant’s obligation to notify the certification body of any
breaches of the GDPR and other legal acts regulating personal data protection found by supervisory
authorities or court which may affect conformity assessment. The second part of the paragraph states
that  “The  afore-mentioned information shall  be  provided  immediately  after  information  on  the
detected breach becomes available to the entity subject to certification”. The Board understands that
the objective of the notification is to inform the certification body only of possible breaches that are
established  by  a  supervisory  authority  or  a  court  which  may  affect  the  applicant’s  conformity
assessment.  However,  if  this  is  the  case,  the  required  information  could  not have  been  reported
immediately  by  the  applicant,  after  a  breach  was  detected,  as  envisaged  by  the  last  sentence  of
paragraph 9. Therefore, the Board encourages the LT SA to delete the last sentence of the paragraph
in order to avoid confusion.

Section 4.1.2 of the Annex, point 6, prescribes that the certification agreement, with respect to 4.1.2.2
lit. c No. 1 ISO/IEC 17065/2012, shall set out the rules of validity, renewal, and withdrawal pursuant
to Articles 42(7) and 43(4) of the GDPR including rules setting appropriate intervals for re-evaluation
or review (regularity) in line with Article 42(7) of the GDPR. However, in section 4.1.2, paragraph 10,
of the LT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it seems that the certification agreement only needs
to contain a statement as to how the conformity assessment rules have to be established “including
the rules related to regular conformity reassessment or review intervals” according to Article 42(7) of
the  GDPR.  Hence,  the Board  recommends  amending this  clause  of  the  draft  accreditation
requirements so as to align it with the Annex.

Regarding  paragraph  11  of  section  4.1.2,  the Board  recommends  referring  to  the  impact  of  the
withdrawal or suspension of the certification body’s accreditation, not only on the ‘entity subject to
certification’, but also on the certified entity in line with the Annex. In the same paragraph, a reference
is included to the consequences for the data subjects. However, the LT SA omitted a reference to
[where applicable] “the consequences for the customer [that] should also be addressed”, as stated in
the  Annex.  The  Board  therefore recommends  the LT  SA  to  replace  the  term  ‘data  subjects’  with
‘customer’, in order to align this requirement with the Annex.

22. With  regard  to  paragraph  12  of section  4.1.2,  the  EDPB  recommends  adding  a  reference  to  the
applicant’s obligation to notify the certification body of significant changes in the applicant’s products,
processes and services concerned by the certification as in section 4.1.2 of the Annex, paragraph 10.
In addition, the Board encourages amending the corresponding explanatory note, so as to clarify that
the examples provided therein cover such changes.

23.

24.

In relation to “Management of impartiality”, the Board notes that in section 4.2, paragraph 3, the LT
SAs draft accreditation requirements state that the certification body shall confirm that it is not related
to the LT SA or its employees. According to the Annex the risk of impartiality for the certification body
may  arise  from  the  possible  connection  with  the  customer  it  assesses.  Therefore,  the  EDPB
recommends the LT SA to replace the reference to the Data Protection Inspectorate or its employees
with the reference to the customer.

In the said section, several examples of conflicts of interests or partiality of the certification body are
provided. The Board welcomes the use of examples to further clarify the content of the requirements.
However, some of these examples are drafted in general term, as if they were requirements, without
8

Adopted

providing elements that may guide the assessment of specific cases falling in the situations described
in  the  examples.  In  particular,  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  mention  the  case  where  the
“major  part  of  turnover  of  the  certification  body  consists  of  income  from  provision  of  certification
services” (point 5), as well as where “the activities of the certification body are financed by the entity
subject to certification” (point 6). Both situations described in the examples could probably concern
most of the certification bodies, given that they are not adequately circumscribed.

First of all, with regard to the circumstances described in these examples, a situation likely to give rise
to a conflict of interest could rather be when the certification body obtains a large part of its revenue
from one or very few applicants/clients. More in general, these examples should be redrafted in more
specific  terms  or  included  in  the  text  of  the  requirements themselves  along  with  the  necessary
elements to lead the assessment of specific cases by defining better their scope of application. Hence,
the Board recommends the LT SA to amend the said examples accordingly, taking into account that a
situation likely to give rise to a conflict of interest could be when the certification body obtains a large
part of its revenue from one or very few applicants/clients.

Section 4.3 of the LT SA’S draft accreditation requirements on “Liability and financing “envisages that
the certification body shall provide the documents supporting that it has appropriate measures to
cover the obligations related to its activities and that it is financially stable. Among the examples
provided in this clause, the fact that the certification body “has no debts related to payments to the
State budget, for example, a certificate issued by the State Tax Inspectorate under the Ministry of
Finance of the Republic of Lithuania” is mentioned in paragraph 3. In this regard, the Board encourages
the LT SA to clarify why these financial obligations, which are unrelated to the GDPR, are included in
the draft accreditation requirements. More specifically, the scope of this example should be better
defined by specifying that it refers to the case in which such financial obligations are likely to affect
the financial stability of the certification body or in any case its ability to provide certification services.

Another  example,  provided  in  the  same  subsection,  paragraph  4,  refers  to  the  case  where
“accreditation  bodies,  competent  supervisory  authorities  or  courts  of  Lithuania  or  other  Member
States  have  not  taken  final  decisions  on  the  breaches  related  to the  certification  body’s  activities,
management of accounts in respect of the certification body itself or its personnel”. Also in this regard,
the Board encourages the LT SA to specify that the example refers to the case in which such decisions
are likely to affect the financial stability of the certification body or in any case its ability to provide
certification services.

Among the said examples, paragraph 5 refers to the situation where the certification body carries out
an assessment of the risk arising from the provision of certification services and its impact on the
entity subject to certification and approves the measures for elimination or mitigation of the identified
risk. This clause does not seem to contain an additional requirement to item 4.3. of ISO 17065, but
rather it seems to complement items 4.2.3, 4.2.4, 4.2.11 of the same standard. Therefore, for the sake
of clarity, the Board encourages LT SA to amend the draft accreditation requirements accordingly.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29. With respect to the publicly available information in subsection 4.6 of the LT SA’S draft accreditation
requirements,  the EDPB  recommends  complementing the  reference  to  the  “information  about
complaint handling procedures following Article 43(2)(d) of the GDPR” with the information about
“the appeals” in line with the Annex.

Adopted

9

2.2.4 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS

30.

31.

32.

The Board observes that section 5.1 of the LT SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Organisational
structure and top management”) refers to the appointment of “a person responsible for compliance
with personal data protection requirements and information management, application of security
measures who has at least 2 years of work experience in the area of personal data protection” The
functions of this person seem similar to those of a data protection officer. The Board encourages the
LT SA to clearly set out the functions of this person.

Among the documents supporting conformity with the afore-mentioned requirements it is mentioned
as  an  example:  “the  scheme  or  description  of  the  organisational  structure  specifying  the  duties,
responsibilities,  accountability  of  the  persons  participating  in  the  conformity  assessment.  This
document or a separate document shall also contain information specified in subclause 5.1.3 of the
Standard ISO 17065.” The Board notes that this requirement closely reflects what is envisaged in item
5.1.2 of of ISO 17065 and encourages the LT SA to better clarify that this is only an example based on
ISO 17065.

Another example included among such documents is the” scheme or other description establishing
the  persons  to  which  information  is  provided  and  what information  is  provided,  for  example,
information on possible breaches, risks of conflicts of interests, received complaints etc. This paragraph
shall apply when information is provided to several persons”. According to the Board, this example is
vague and abstract and risks being ambiguous. Hence, the Board encourages the LT SA to delete the
example.

2.2.5 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS

33. With regard to the requirements of certification body personnel, in subsection 6.1, the EDPB observes
that the “knowledge related to personal data protection legislation” or the “experience in the area of
personal  data  protection”,  as  well  as  the  “expert  knowledge  on  the  certification  object”,  or  the
“knowledge  about  personal  data  technical  and  organisational  security  data  protection  measures”
should be ‘relevant’, ‘ongoing’ and ‘appropriate’ as required in the Annex. Moreover, the “experience
in  identifying  and  implementing  data  protection  measure” for the “employees  responsible  for
certification decisions” should be ‘significant’ as in the Annex. Therefore, the Board recommends the
LT SA to amend their draft requirements accordingly.

34.

As  for  personnel  with  technical  expertise  (paragraph  4),  the  draft  accreditation  requirements
prescribe that the certification body “has to demonstrate that they improve their qualification in the
respective  area  related  to  technical  and  audit  knowledge,  participation  in  continuous  professional
development programs”. In this regard, the Board encourages the LT SA to replace the term ‘improve’
with ‘maintain’ so as to align this requirement with the Annex.

35.

Concerning the personnel with legal expertise, the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify that the
required years of professional experience have to be relevant for the tasks they will perform.

Adopted

10

2.2.6 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS

36.

37.

38.

The  Board  notes  that  paragraph  3  of  section  7.1  (“General”)  of  the  LT  SA’s draft  accreditation
requirements includes the obligation of the certification body to notify to the LT SA of the decisions
on certificates sought, prior to issuing, renewing or withdrawing certifications and to provide the SA
with a copy of the summary of the conclusion on the assessment carried out. Moreover, section 7.6
(“Certification decision”), in paragraph 2, prescribes the certification body to verify, before taking a
decision on issue (renewal) of a certificate, if the SA has not initiated any investigations against the
applicant showing that it does not meet the certification criteria. In this regard, paragraph 5 of section
7.2 (“Application”) already requires that information on whether an investigation is being carried out
against the applicant is to be provided in the certification application.

The said requirements, read in conjunction with each other, seem to suggest that a supervision by the
SA of certification decisions is entailed. However, on the basis of the explanations supplied by the LT
SA, the Board understands that this does not mean that the SA would need to approve each and every
decision of certification body. Thus, for the sake of clarity and legal certainty, the Board encourages
the LT SA to clarify the aim of these requirements, specifying that they do not entail a supervision of
each and every certification decision by the LT SA, but that the SA reserves the right to exercise the
power to order the certification body not to issue certification, under Article 58 paragraph 2, lett. h)
of the GDPR, if it is in possession of information concerning serious breaches of data protection rules
and principles from which it derives that the applicant does not meet the certification criteria.

Paragraph 4 of section 7.2 (“Application”) states that the application to obtain the certification shall
specify “if the certification object also covers transfer of personal data to third countries” as well as
“personal data to be transferred, its recipients and personal data security measures which shall be
applied in such case”. As part of the work program for 2020-2021, the Board is currently working on
Guidelines on certifications as a tool for transfers. Since the Guidelines have not been adopted yet,
the  Board considers  that the  reference  to  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third  countries  in this
requirement might create confusion and may need to be amended once the Guidelines are adopted.
Therefore,  the Board  recommends  deleting the  said  requirement  as  well  as  the  reference  to  the
transfer  tools  included  in  point  3  of  the  list  of  documents  supporting  conformity  with  the  afore-
mentioned requirement.

39.

In section 7.3 (“Application review”), the Board recommends adding the obligation to have binding
evaluation methods with respect to the ToE in the certification agreement as required in the Annex.

40. With respect to section 7.4 of the LT SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Evaluation”), the Board
notes that a specific reference to the use of external experts for conformity assessment is included in
paragraph 3, as stated in the Annex. In this regard, the Board encourages the LT SA to include a specific
reference  to  the  use  of  external  experts  who  have  been  recognized  by  the certification  body.  In
addition, the Board considers that the draft accreditation requirements should explicitly state that the
certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-making, even when it uses external
experts. Therefore, the Board recommends the LT SA to amend the draft accreditation requirements
accordingly.

41.

As  for  paragraph  5  of  the  afore-mentioned section,  the  Board  recommends  amending  the  draft
accreditation requirements to clarify that the obligation to set out in the certification mechanism how
to inform the customer about nonconformities is placed on the certification body and not on the

Adopted

11

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

applicant. More in general, the Board encourages the LT SA to redraft the requirement so as to align
the wording with the Annex.

In section 7.5 (“Review”) the draft accreditation requirement refers to the procedure for “review and
withdrawal of the conclusions drawn [by the certification body] in the course of the assessment in
accordance with Articles 43(2) and 43(3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679” while the Annex mentions the
procedures for “regular review and revocation of the … certifications pursuant to Article 43(2) and
43(3)” of the GDPR. Thus, the Board encourages the LT SA to replace the term ‘conclusions’ with
‘certifications’.

According to paragraph 1 of section 7.8 of the draft accreditation requirements (“Directory of certified
products”), the certification body shall publish information on, among others, the certified object
(products,  processes  and  services).  In  this  regard,  the Annex  requires  that  the  afore-mentioned
information must be available internally and publicly available. Thus, the Board recommends the LT
SA to amend the requirements in line with what it is stated in the Annex so as to clarify that, for
instance, posting such information on a local intranet, would not comply with the requirements.

In  paragraph  2  of  section  7.10  (“Changes  affecting  certification”),  among  the  changes  affecting
certification  which  must  be  assessed  by  the  certification  body,  the  LT  SA’s  draft accreditation
requirements  mention  the  “major  changes  in  the  personal  data  processing  operations  which  are
(were) certified”. For the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify the meaning of the
said ‘major changes’ with regard to the client’s processing operations.

In paragraph 5 of the same section the draft accreditation requirements refer to “decisions, opinions,
guidelines,  recommendations  or  good  practices  adopted  by  the  Board”.  To  cover  other  types  of
documents  that  may  be  issued  by the  EDPB,  the  Board  encourages  the  LT  SA  to  add  “and  other
documents” at the end of this clause.

As for section 7.12 (“Records”) of the LT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board recommends
including a reference to the obligation of the certification body to keep all documentation complete,
comprehensible, up-to-date and fit to audit so as to align the draft accreditation requirements with
the Annex.

2.2.7 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Paragraph 2 of chapter VIII (“Management system requirements”) of the LT SA’s draft accreditation
requirements states that “the management body shall cover the requirements set forth in paragraphs
9.3.3 and 9.3.4 hereof”. The Board understands that the term the ‘management body’ be intended as
the ‘management system’. However, the reference to the requirements set forth only in paragraphs
9.3.3 and 9.3.4 risks to create ambiguity. Thus, for the sake of clarity and legal certainty, the Board
recommends replacing the reference to the said paragraphs with a more general reference to the
implementation of all draft requirements from the previous chapters.

48. With regard to paragraph 3 of the said chapter, the Board notes that the obligation of the certification
body  to  disclose  to  the  LT  SA  the  management  principles  and  their documented  implementation
during the accreditation procedure is not foreseen. The Board recommends the LT SA to amend the
draft requirements, by including such obligation, as stated in the Annex.

Adopted

12

2.2.8 FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

49. With regard to section 9.3.1 (“Communication between the certification body and its clients”), the
Board  underlines  that  the  procedures  and  communication  structures  in  place  between  the
certification body and its customer should include the “maintenance” of the documentation of tasks
and responsibilities by the accredited certification body. Therefore, the Board recommends the LT SA
to add this element in the draft accreditation requirements as provided in the Annex.

50.

The last sentence of section 9.3.3 (“Administration of examination of complaints”) of the LT SA’s draft
accreditation  requirements  partially  reflects  the  obligation  under  the  Annex.  Indeed,  the  Board
considers that the SA not only have to be informed of relevant complaints and objections, but they
have to be shared with the SA. Therefore, the Board recommends the LT SA to redraft the requirement
by  stating  that  relevant  complaints  and  objections  shall  be  shared with  the  LT  SA  the  as  Annex
requires.  Moreover,  the  Board  encourages  the  LT  SAs  to  replace  the  reference  to  “justified
complaints” by “substantiated complaints”, in order to provide more clarity.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

51.

The draft accreditation requirements of the LT Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made:

52.

Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the LT SA:

1) amends the draft accreditation requirement in paragraph 1 of section 4.1.2 (“Certification
agreement”) so as to take into account that the applicant could be required to comply
with the criteria of a common certification resulting in a European Data Protection Seal
approved by the Board at Union level;

2)

in  paragraph  8 of  in  section  4.1.2, includes  a  reference  to the  rules on  the  necessary
precautions for the investigation of complaints among the issues that the certification
agreement shall address;

3) amends the draft accreditation requirements in paragraph 10 of section 4.1.2, so as to

align it with the Annex;

4)

regarding  paragraph  11  of  section  4.1.2,  refers  to  the  impact  of  the  withdrawal  or
suspension of the certification body’s accreditation on the certified entity and replaces
the  term  ‘data  subjects’  with  ‘customer’,  in  order  to  align  this  requirement  with the
Annex;

5) with regard to paragraph 12 of section 4.1.2, adds a reference to the applicant’s obligation
to  notify  the  certification  body  of  significant  changes  in  the  applicant’s  products,
processes and services concerned by the certification as in section 4.1.2 of the Annex,
paragraph 10;

6)

7)

in section 4.2 (“Management of impartiality”), paragraph 3, replaces the reference to the
Data Protection Inspectorate or its employees with the reference to the customer;

redrafts the examples concerning conflicts of interests or partiality of the certification
body provided in points 5 and 6 of section 4.2, in more specific terms or includes them in

13

Adopted

the text of the requirements, along with the necessary elements to lead the assessment
of specific cases by defining better their scope of application, taking into account that a
situation likely to give rise to a conflict of interest could be when the certification body
obtains a large part of its revenue from one or very few applicants/clients;

8) with respect to the publicly available information in subsection 4.6, complements the
reference  to  the  “information  about  complaint  handling  procedures  following  Article
43(2)(d) of the GDPR” with the information about ‘the appeals’ in line with the Annex;

53.

Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the LT SA:

1) amends the  draft  requirements  of  certification  body  personnel  in  subsection  6.1,  in

accordance with the Annex;

54.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the LT SA:

1) deletes the draft accreditation requirement in paragraph 4 of section 7.2 (“Application”),
as well as the reference to the transfers tools included in point 3 of the list of documents
supporting conformity with the afore-mentioned requirement;

2)

in  section  7.3  (“Application  review”),  adds the  obligation  to  have  binding  evaluation
methods with respect to the ToE in the certification agreement as required in the Annex;

3) with  respect  to  section  7.4  (“Evaluation”),  paragraph  3,  explicitly  states  that  the
certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-making, even when it uses
external experts;

4) as for paragraph 5 of the afore-mentioned section, clarifies that the obligation to set out
in the  certification  mechanism  how  to  inform  the customer  about  nonconformities  is
placed on the certification body and not on the applicant;

5) as for paragraph 1 of section 7.8 (“Directory of certified products”), amends the draft
accreditation requirements in line with what is stated in the Annex so as to clarify that,
for instance, posting such information on a local intranet, would not comply with the
requirements;

6) as for section 7.12 (“Records”), includes a reference to the obligation of the certification
body to keep all documentation complete, comprehensible, up-to-date and fit to audit so
as to align the draft accreditation requirements with the Annex;

55.

Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the LT SA:

1)

in  paragraph  2  of  Chapter  VIII  (“Management  system  requirements”),  replaces  the
reference  to  paragraphs  9.3.3  and  9.3.4  with  a  more  general  reference  to  the
implementation of all draft requirements from the previous chapters;

2) with  regard  to  paragraph  3  of  the  said  Chapter,  amends  the  draft  accreditation
requirements, by including the obligation of the certification body to disclose to the LT SA
the  management  principles  and  their  documented 
implementation  during  the
accreditation procedure, as stated in the Annex.

Adopted

14

56.

Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the LT SA:

1) with  regard  to  section  9.3.1  (“Communication  between  the  certification  body  and  its
clients”),  adds  a  reference  to  the  “maintenance”  of  the  documentation  of  tasks  and
responsibilities by the accredited certification body as provided in the Annex;

2)

redrafts the last sentence of section 9.3.3 (“Administration of examination of complaints”)
by stating that relevant complaints and objections shall be shared with the LT SA the as
Annex requires.

4 FINAL REMARKS

57.

58.

This Opinion is addressed to the LT Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to Article
64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the LT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

59.

The LT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

15

