

Bonn, September 3, 2020


Press release 22/2020


EDSA sets up a task force on complaints against the use of Google and Facebook services
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, and his colleagues from the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) agreed to set up a task force. It is intended to ensure that complaints from the organization "Non-of-your-business" (noyb) about the use of Google and Facebook services by European providers are processed quickly and uniformly throughout Europe.

The BfDI said: The EDSA is sending a strong signal with the task force. The crucial question of whether these Google and Facebook services comply with European data protection law can now finally be answered uniformly across Europe.
After the Schrems II judgment was announced, the non-governmental organization noybNon-of-your-business filed 101 complaints against the use of Google Analytics and Facebook Connect by European companies. The complaints are addressed to all national supervisory authorities, including five German state data protection supervisory authorities. In terms of content, the complaints concern the question of whether Google and Facebook may continue to transmit personal data to the USA via the products mentioned and whether use by websites of European providers, for example, is legal or not.
Both groups are now based on the so-called standard contractual clauses of the European Union. Whether they have taken the "additional measures" required by the ECJ to supplement the standard contractual clauses and whether these measures are sufficient to guarantee the level of protection required by the ECJ in the USA is the core question of the content of the complaints procedure. As a consequence, the EDPB set up a second task force on a joint initiative by Germany and France. In particular, this should develop criteria for the evaluation of data transmission in individual cases, criteria for additional measures and procedural aspects for their implementation.
In addition, at yesterday's meeting, the EDPB adopted guidelines on the key terms "controller" and "processor" in the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as guidelines on how to target social media users. The EDPB will shortly publish both documents on its website.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











