1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00250/2020

 RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The MASSALFASSAR LOCAL POLICE (hereinafter, the claimant) with
date 01/31/2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF MASSALFASSAR with
NIF P4616500G (hereinafter, the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based
are, in short, that while they were carrying out administrative tasks, the mother
of a minor enrolled in the municipal nursery school and that when approaching the access
main of it has been observed in the main access glass door figure
adhered and exposed a sheet in which the names and surnames of the parents appear
who have returned receipts prior to the month in force and with the pending amounts
of fertilizer

Police report and photographs of the entrance to the school are provided.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 03/11/2020, the written claim submitted for
its analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard.
Likewise, it was required that within a month it send to the Agency
certain information:

- The decision adopted regarding this claim.
- In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22
of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

The Agency does not record a response to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On 08/03/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 09/17/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation, considering that the sanction that could correspond would be
WARNING.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 06/05/2019 there is a written entry in the AEPD from the Local Police of
MASSALFASSAR pointing out that while carrying out administrative tasks they
person the mother of a minor enrolled in the municipal nursery school
stating that access through the main door of the premises has observed in the glass
of the aforementioned door there is a sheet adhered and exposed in which the names and
surnames of the parents who have returned receipts corresponding to the month prior to
in force, with the amounts pending payment.

SECOND: Photographs of the entrance to the municipal nursery school have been provided
as well as the location of the document in one of the entrance doors to the building.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the treatment

of personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

III

The article notes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

In turn, article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

 "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

IV

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security in its systems by allowing access to the personal data of the users.
parents of minors enrolled in the municipal school, who have returned receipts
figuring the amounts pending payment, disclosing them to third parties
people.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the
treatment will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk
that the treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
application, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and
proportionate to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the measures
technical and organizational information must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and
encryption, the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resiliency, the ability to restore availability and access to data after a
incident, verification process (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of the measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In the present case, as evidenced by the facts and within the framework of the
investigation file E/02327/2020 the AEPD transfer to the claimed on
03/11/2020, the claim submitted for analysis requesting the contribution of
information related to the claimed incidence, without it having been received in this
body any response.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the Local Police, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing
access to them in the event of a physical or technical incident. However, from the
The documentation provided shows that the entity has not only breached this
obligation, but also the adoption of measures in this regard is unknown,
despite having notified him of the claim filed.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be
responsible for the infringement of the RGPD: the violation of article 32, infringement
typified in article 83.4.a).

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

v

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,

11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.

(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance with
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

(…)

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the present case, in the sanctioning procedure it has been proven
that the defendant has incurred in violation of the regulations on the protection of
data.

According to the available evidence, said conduct
constitutes, on the part of the defendant, the infringement of the provisions of article 32.1 of the
GDPR.

The RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates in the
article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not conform to your expectations, when the
Those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed any of the
infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the MASSALFASSAR CITY COUNCIL, with NIF
P4616500G, for an infringement of Article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in the article
83.4 of the RGPD, a penalty of warning in accordance with article 77.2 of
the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF
MASSALFASSAR.

THIRD: REQUEST the MASSALFASSAR CITY COUNCIL so that in the
Within a month from the notification of this resolution, prove the adoption of
necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the regulations on
protection of personal data in order to prevent them from being used again in the future.
occur incidents such as those that have given rise to the claim by correcting the
effects of its possible infraction, adapting the information and publication of the data
of a personal nature to the aforementioned measures and adapt to the requirements contemplated
in article 32.1 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

