General Data Protection Regulation: view
focus on their strengths and opportunities!

Conclusion of the Bavarian state commissioner for data protection
Occasion of the 13th European Data Protection Day

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, January 28, 2019

On January 28th, the data protection conference on the occasion of the
13th European Data Protection Days in Berlin about the first experiences
with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR has been in effect since
May 25, 2018 in Germany and thus also in Bavaria directly and
generally.

According to the impression of the Bavarian State Commissioner for the data
protection were many in the run-up to and at the beginning of the validity of the GDPR
fueled unfounded fears. Anyway, 2018 was especially
discussed bureaucratic burdens and imminent fines associated with the
GDPR could go hand in hand. Documentation requirements for volunteers
organized clubs, removing nameplates from doorbells
and not posting wishes for children at local Christmas
trees determined the headlines in this respect.

Last but not least, the case of data theft regarding about a thousand people
of public life such as journalists and politicians has shown: In the
Discussions were often over the actual objectives of the GDPR
come into view - such as the transparency of processing for the
affected people and the effective securing of IT systems
Integral and confidential data processing is guaranteed.

The GDPR is primarily intended to help Europe
Can use the opportunities of digitization and at the same time protect privacy
that effectively protects people. To this end, EU data protection law has

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from 01/25/2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
the same as the previous German law, the requirements for the processing
processing of personal data is partially lowered. against
 
However, it has strengthened the rights of the people affected.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “The data protection year 2018 was in public
Discussion, above all, of seemingly bizarre individual cases and bureaucratic
social burdens that the GDPR entails. In contrast
In 2019 we should pay more attention to how the GDPR
strengthens the rights of those affected and what positive responses they receive
the challenges of the future can give."

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection supervisory authorities
Federal and the states.
Its aim is to uphold and protect fundamental data protection rights, to
to achieve the application of European and national data protection law and work together for
to enter into its further development.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

