Postal address:  
Box 8114  
104 20 Stockholm  
Website:  
www.imy.se  
Email:  
imy@imy.se  
Phone:  
08-657 61 00  
1(11)  

Kry International AB  
Decision following supervision under the  
Data Protection Regulation – Kry  
International AB  
Decision of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) finds that Kry International AB, with organization number 556967-0820, has processed personal data in violation of Article 32.1 of the Data Protection Regulation by failing to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a suitable level of security for personal data when using the analytics tool Meta Pixel during the period from May 28, 2020, to May 17, 2022.  
IMY issues Kry a reprimand under Article 58.2 b of the Data Protection Regulation for the violation.  

Account of the supervisory matter  
Background, etc.  
Kry International AB (Kry) submitted a notification of a personal data incident to the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) on May 18, 2022. The notification indicates, among other things, that Kry has offered a business-to-business service aimed at facilitating remote contact through a secure and encrypted video connection (the service). The users have typically been companies in the healthcare and health sectors (users) that could register an account and subsequently invite other organizations, colleagues, customers, patients, and individuals representing patients (end users) by sending out a link to a video meeting via SMS and email, among other methods. By using Meta Platforms Ireland Limited's (Meta's) analytics tool Meta Pixel on the websites where the service was offered, hashed contact details of the end users were inadvertently transferred to Meta. The incident was discovered through information from an external source.  
IMY initiated supervision in May 2022 based on the information contained in the incident notification. The supervision has been limited to the question of whether Kry has taken appropriate technical and organizational measures.  

1 European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).  
2 Hashing is a cryptographic one-way function that can be used to achieve pseudonymization, which is a possible security measure under Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation, by replacing personal data with a so-called hash value. This means that the replaced personal data is not available in clear text and that additional information is needed to identify the data subject.  
Case number:  
IMY-2022-3822  
Date:  
2024-12-19  
Page 1 of 11
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
2(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

Organizational measures in accordance with Article 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation regarding  
end users' personal data.  
Due to the cross-border nature of the supervisory matter, the Swedish Data Protection Authority (IMY) has utilized the cooperation and consistency mechanisms provided in Chapter VII of the General Data Protection Regulation. The relevant supervisory authorities have been the data protection authorities in Denmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Germany, Hungary, and Austria.  

What Kry has stated  
Kry has primarily stated the following regarding the matter that IMY is reviewing.  
Data Controller  
Kry is the data controller for the unintentional collection and sharing of end users' personal data. The implementation of the Meta pixel has been carried out by Kry for the purpose of marketing Kry's own services. Kry has thus determined the purposes and means for the relevant processing.  

Purpose of the processing  
Kry has used the Meta pixel for marketing purposes. The intention has been to collect a limited amount of data about website visitors and users in order to target advertisements on Meta's social platform Facebook at visitors who have not yet registered an account or users who have registered an account but have not started using the service. The purpose was also to evaluate the need and measure the effectiveness of such marketing. Kry did not intend to collect information about or target marketing to the end users. However, due to the activation of the Meta pixel's automatic advanced matching (AAM) feature, contact details that users provided about the end users to send out an invitation to a video meeting were collected and transferred to Meta. The transfer of the data started on May 28, 2020, and ceased on May 17, 2022.  

What personal data has been transferred to Meta  
The data transferred about the users has included technical information about the user's device, IP address, hashed contact information in the form of email addresses and phone numbers, as well as interaction data such as button clicks and events (for example, account registration, page openings, or creation of meeting links). The transfer of end users' contact details has included either their email addresses or phone numbers. There has been no collection and transfer of data regarding end users' use of the service, such as information about whether the person clicked on a meeting link, joined a meeting, or ended a meeting.  

It should be noted that several transferred contact details most likely do not constitute personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation as they consisted of generic email addresses such as info@vårdgivare.se or switchboard numbers. A review of the pilot project for the service and feedback from users further shows that the service has been used by a healthcare provider inviting a legal entity, such as a healthcare center or a residence, as an end user to the video meeting. In such cases, contact with the patient has occurred through the legal entity's unit, and the booking has not involved the processing of the patient's personal data.  

The data about the end users has not included special categories of personal data according to Article 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation for several reasons. It has  
Page 2 of 11
Integrity Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
3(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

it has not been possible to link information about the end user to events or actions that the user has taken on the service, such as invitations or meetings. It is highly unlikely that Meta could have perceived that the data transferred about the user and the end user belonged to different parties, as no data has been transferred that suggests who the data was intended for. The activation of the AAM function has resulted in the end user's email address or phone number being linked to the event instead of the user's email address and phone number. For Meta, it has thus appeared that the user changed their contact information. According to the agreement and data processing agreement in effect between Kry and Meta, Meta has only been permitted to match the contact information against individuals with accounts on Meta's platforms. Therefore, Meta has also not had the right to attempt to connect the hashed contact information. Even if Meta could have determined that the data concerned different parties, it would not have been possible for Meta to conclude that it involved either a patient or a healthcare provider. This would require far-reaching assumptions from Meta, as there are many other conceivable connections between the various platform accounts than that it would involve a healthcare provider and a patient. Furthermore, the data transferred about the users has been professional information, while accounts on Meta's platforms are typically of a private nature. It is therefore unlikely that the hashed contact information about the users matches data at Meta, and Meta has not been able to translate the hashed email address into a readable address.  

Scope of the Incident  
An important principle for the platform and the service has been not to collect, store, or otherwise process personal data about end users. Therefore, the end users' contact information has been immediately deleted from Kry's system after the invitation was sent out. For this reason, there are no records or storage of data that can be used to calculate the exact number of unique end users. Based on the number of invitations that have been sent through the platform and internal statistics from Kry's other services, Kry estimates that approximately 90,000 end users may have been affected. However, a large portion of the contact information for these end users likely did not constitute personal data, which means that the number of registered individuals affected by the incident is lower than the reported figure.  

Kry's investigation also shows that Meta's processing of personal data has been limited. The contact information has only been used, and for a very short time, to identify Meta's platform users as potential recipients of targeted advertisements and has not been used in any other way. In Sweden, no marketing was conducted via Meta during the period of the incident or afterward. When Kry became aware of the incident, the pixel was immediately removed from the websites where the service was offered, and marketing through Meta was halted in all markets.  

Technical and Organizational Security  
Kry has taken a number of organizational and technical measures based on the specific risk identified with the processing of personal data within the framework of the service. At the time of the implementation of the service, Kry had internal policies and processes in place. Before the service was launched, a risk analysis was conducted, which resulted in a data protection impact assessment being carried out. The impact assessment led, among other things, to the processing of end users' personal data being limited to the contact information that was necessary to send out a meeting invitation. Through built-in data protection, Kry has, as far as possible, limited the extent to which users could contribute data to the system at all. Furthermore, it has been decided that contact information for end users and other data that needed to be handled to provide the service, such as video calls, technical data, and metadata about video meetings, would only be processed in real-time and thus not stored in  
Page 3 of 11
Integrity Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
4(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

Kry's system. When the marketing department was to implement the pixel on the relevant web pages, it was not deemed necessary to conduct an additional impact assessment as the risks were considered low.  
Kry's investigation shows that the technical team that implemented the Meta pixel did not fully understand some of its functionality. Kry has implemented a customer data platform to ensure control over what data was collected on the websites where the service was offered and to be able to implement overarching data protection settings for all tracking. Kry has made a number of settings in the customer data platform to protect personal data, including that no tracking would occur on the end-user side and that directly identifiable information would be hashed. The AAM function, which caused the unintended transfer, was turned off in the customer data platform for privacy reasons. The incident occurred because opposite settings were made in Meta's own developer tool, which were given precedence. Since the purpose of the customer data platform is to instruct third-party cookies and pixels, Kry did not foresee that the settings of the pixel would take precedence over the settings in the customer data platform and thus cause the transfer of personal data. A function that hashed identified data had been activated in the customer data platform, which automatically converted the data from plaintext to hashed form. Thus, Meta only had access to hashed personal data. The lack of understanding regarding the consequence of activating the AAM function, combined with the technical settings made for the pixel being given precedence over the settings in the customer data platform, resulted in hashed contact details of end-users being transferred to Meta despite it never being the intention.  
Kry applies the principle of least privilege, which means that no user role is assigned higher privileges than necessary to perform their job duties. Only 3–4 people in the marketing department have been able to read and configure the tool for the Meta pixel. The marketing department has continuously and regularly evaluated the statistics regarding the data points and events that the company decided to collect through the pixel. Additionally, an external party has conducted penetration tests of the service on two different occasions. No follow-up on which personal data was collected through the pixel and sent to Meta was made, as Kry had configured the customer data platform to ensure limited and secure processing of personal data. Kry had, among other things, taken measures so that no directly identifiable personal data from the event data would be shared with Meta. Furthermore, Kry did not understand that the AAM function had been activated and thus circumvented the privacy settings in the customer data platform. In May 2022, a more in-depth review was conducted of what data was collected and sent to Meta, which confirmed that certain information about end-users had been mistakenly sent to Meta through the AAM function.  
At the time of the incident, Kry had a valid general audit program for data protection as well as annual internal controls in the area of data protection, based on the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation and which particularly considered the risks associated with data processing. However, the risk associated with the Meta pixel within the framework of this program was assessed as relatively low, partly due to the target group that Kry intended to collect data about and the measures taken to comply with applicable legislation. It was therefore not considered that there was a risk from the AAM function that required further action, as several appropriate measures had already been taken.  
When the incident was discovered, the Meta pixel was removed from the web pages where the service was offered. Kry has since taken several actions, including investigating the incident and informing the data subjects about it on the websites where the service was offered. Kry has also contacted Meta and requested the company to delete the transferred data. Meta informed that  
Page 4 of 11
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: Kry International AB  
5(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

All hashed data shared with Meta will be deleted within 48 hours. Kry has also taken measures to improve its handling of tracking technology. Furthermore, other forward-looking measures have been implemented in the form of, for example, a review of existing requirements and guidelines, training measures, and planning for an audit of the functionality of the customer data platform. Kry has not sought or gained any financial advantage from the unintentional sharing of data.  

Justification of the Decision  
IMY must initially determine whether the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is applicable and whether IMY is the competent supervisory authority. If this is the case, IMY will assess whether Kry is the data controller and whether the company has taken appropriate security measures in accordance with Article 32 of the GDPR to protect the personal data processed about end users through the Meta pixel, with the AAM function activated, during the period from May 28, 2020, to May 17, 2022.  

IMY's Competence  
Applicable Provisions  
According to Article 95 of the GDPR, the GDPR shall not impose any additional obligations on natural or legal persons processing personal data for areas already covered by obligations under the so-called ePrivacy Directive. The ePrivacy Directive has been implemented in Swedish law through the Act (2022:482) on Electronic Communication (LEK), which regulates, among other things, the collection of data through cookies.  

According to Chapter 9, Section 28 of the LEK, which implements Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy Directive, data may only be stored in or retrieved from a subscriber's or user's terminal equipment if the subscriber or user is provided with information about the purpose of the processing and consents to it. Furthermore, it is stated that this does not prevent such storage or access that is necessary for the transmission of an electronic message via an electronic communications network or that is necessary to provide a service that the user or subscriber has expressly requested. The LEK came into force on August 22, 2022. However, during the relevant period in this case, the same requirements applied according to Chapter 6, Section 18 of the Act (2003:389) on Electronic Communication. The Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (PTS) is the supervisory authority under the LEK (Chapter 1, Section 5 of the Regulation [2022:511] on Electronic Communication).  

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has commented on the interaction between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR. The opinion states, among other things, that the national supervisory authority designated under the ePrivacy Directive is solely competent to monitor compliance with the directive. However, IMY is the competent supervisory authority under the GDPR for processing that is not specifically regulated in the ePrivacy Directive.  

On October 7, 2024, the EDPB adopted guidelines regarding the technical scope of Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy Directive. The guidelines state, among other things, that a common approach for companies is the use of unique identifiers or persistent identifiers.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
6(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

identifiers. Such identifiers can be derived from persistent personal data (first name, last name, email address, phone number, etc.), which is hashed on the user's device, collected and shared among several data controllers to uniquely identify a person through various datasets (user data collected through the use of a website or application, customer relationship management related to online or offline purchases or subscriptions, etc.). The guidelines clarify that the fact that the information is entered by the user does not exclude the applicability of Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy Directive since the information is temporarily stored on the terminal before it is collected. Regarding collection through unique identifiers on websites or mobile applications, the collecting entity provides instructions to the browser (through code distributed to the terminal/client) that sends the information. Thus, a retrieval of data occurs, and Article 5.3 is applicable. The fact that the entity instructing the terminal to send back the information is not the same as the one receiving the information does not exclude the applicability of Article 5.3 of the ePrivacy Directive.  

IMY's Assessment  
IMY's review focuses on Kry's use of the Meta pixel, a script-based tool in the form of a piece of code, on the website where the service was obtained. The activation of the Meta pixel's AAM function has resulted in the pixel instructing users' browsers to collect and hash information that users have provided on the webpage about themselves and the end user. Based on this data, a unique identifier has been created, which has been temporarily stored in the user's terminal and then transferred to, and thus retrieved by, Meta for matching. The processing in question has thus involved both storage in and retrieval from users' terminal equipment as referred to in Chapter 9, Section 28 of the LEK, and the corresponding provision in Chapter 6, Section 18 of the Electronic Communications Act (2003:389).  
PTS is solely authorized to supervise the application of the LEK. However, IMY's review concerns whether Kry has taken sufficient security measures, which is not specifically regulated in the LEK. IMY is thus authorized to investigate the issue that the supervisory matter concerns.  

Data Controller  
Applicable Provisions  
According to Article 4.7 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is the entity that alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of processing personal data. The fact that purposes and means can be determined by more than one actor means that several actors can be data controllers for the same processing.  
The data controller shall, according to Article 5.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, be responsible for and be able to demonstrate compliance with the principles in Article 5.1 (the principle of accountability).  

IMY's Assessment  
Kry has stated that the company is the data controller for the processing of personal data that has occurred during the use of the Meta pixel and for the transfer of personal data to Meta.  

5 EDPB Guidelines 2/2023 on Technical Scope of Art. 5(3) of ePrivacy Directive, points 61–63.  
6 Ibid, point 34.  
Page 6 of 11
Integrity Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
7(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

The investigation shows that Kry has decided to implement the Meta pixel, a tool that records visitor behavior and transmits the information to Meta, on the web pages where the service has been offered and subsequently activated the AAM function through the settings in Meta's tools. The purpose of using the Meta pixel has been to market Kry's service and to follow up on that marketing. Kry has thus determined how the processing shall take place and for what purpose personal data shall be processed. IMY therefore assesses that Kry is the data controller for the processing of personal data that has occurred through the use of the Meta pixel with the AAM function activated.  
Has Kry ensured an appropriate level of security for the personal data?  
Applicable Provisions  

Definition of personal data  
According to Article 4.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data is any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. The same provision states that an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, particularly by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, or online identifiers, or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person.  
Requirement to take appropriate protective measures  

Article 32.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that the data controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the processing. This shall, according to the same provision, be done taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks, varying in likelihood and severity, to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. According to Article 32.1, appropriate protective measures, where appropriate, include  
a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data,  
b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of processing systems and services,  
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident, and  
d) a procedure for regularly testing, assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of processing.  
Recital 75 of the General Data Protection Regulation specifies factors to be considered when assessing the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Among other things, it mentions the loss of confidentiality concerning personal data that is subject to confidentiality obligations, as well as whether the processing concerns data about health or sexual life. Furthermore, consideration should be given to whether the processing involves personal data concerning vulnerable natural persons, particularly children, or whether the processing involves a large amount of personal data and concerns a large number of data subjects.  
Page 7 of 11
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
8(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

In Recital 76 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), it is stated that the likelihood and severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject should be determined based on the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing. The risk should be assessed on the basis of an objective evaluation, through which it is determined whether the data processing involves a risk or a high risk.  

Sensitive Personal Data  
Data concerning health falls under the special categories of personal data, known as sensitive personal data, which are afforded a particularly strong protection under the GDPR. As a general rule, it is prohibited to process such personal data according to Article 9.1 of the GDPR, unless the processing falls under one of the exceptions in Article 9.2 of the Regulation.  
Data concerning health is defined in Article 4.15 of the GDPR as personal data relating to the physical or mental health of a natural person, which provides information about their health status. In Recital 35 of the GDPR, it is stated that personal data concerning health should include all data related to a registered person's health condition that provides information about the registered person's past, present, or future physical or mental health status.  

IMY's Assessment  
The processing has involved a risk  
The data controller must take measures to ensure a level of protection that is appropriate to the risks of the processing. The assessment of the appropriate level of protection should be made taking into account, among other things, the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks, of varying likelihood and severity, to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Based on an objective assessment, it should be determined whether the processing involves a risk or a high risk.  

The investigation in the matter shows that Kry has transferred data to Meta about the users of the service in the form of, among other things, email addresses and information about how they have acted, for example, by registering an account, opening pages, or creating meeting links. Furthermore, the contact details, in the form of email addresses or phone numbers, that the user has entered about the end user to create a meeting invitation have been transferred to Meta.  

IMY makes the following assessment of the risks associated with the processing of the end users' personal data.  
Such data transferred to Meta in the current case can, at least regarding personal email addresses and phone numbers, constitute data that can directly or indirectly identify a natural person and thus constitute personal data. IMY further notes that it cannot be ruled out that it has been possible to infer from the transferred data that an invitation to a meeting between the user and the end user has been sent out. Moreover, it must have been evident in many cases from the user's email address that they represented a healthcare provider.  

However, the current transfer did not include any data about the relationship between the user and the end user or any data about what the booking concerned. It has thus not been possible to infer that the end user was a patient, nor that the meeting...  
Page 8 of 11
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: Kry International AB  
9(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

constituted a healthcare visit or what health issues it would pertain to in that case. IMY assesses therefore that the transferred data does not include any information about the end user's health status and thus does not constitute sensitive personal data according to the Data Protection Regulation.  
In light of the fact that the service has been used within healthcare, IMY notes, however, that the processing, even though it did not involve sensitive personal data about health, has occurred in a context where the registered individuals must have been able to expect a high degree of confidentiality. This is particularly true when the service has been used for meetings between a healthcare provider and a patient. Furthermore, it can be noted that it has involved extensive processing as Kry estimates that up to 90,000 end users have been affected by the incident.  
In summary, IMY assesses that the processing, considering its nature, scope, and context, has posed a risk that has resulted in a requirement for Kry to ensure a level of protection that is appropriate in relation to the current risk. The measures should, among other things, ensure that personal data is protected against loss of control.  
Kry has not taken sufficient security measures  

IMY will then assess whether Kry has ensured the level of protection required to safeguard the end users' personal data.  
Kry has stated that the company has made settings in its customer data platform to prevent the use of the Meta pixel's AAM function. However, the company's investigation shows that the relevant function has nonetheless been activated because contrary settings were made in Meta's developer tools, which took precedence over the settings in the customer data platform. The activation of the AAM function has resulted in Kry inadvertently transferring the end users' contact information to Meta. However, Kry has taken security measures prior to the relevant processing that have limited the negative consequences of the inadvertent transfer. Kry has, among other things, decided to limit the processing of end users' data to what was necessary to send out meeting invitations and implemented technical barriers that prevented the user from entering more data than that. These limitations have meant that it has not been possible to ascertain what the relevant meeting invitation pertained to or any other privacy-sensitive information about the registered individuals.  
IMY notes, however, that a fundamental prerequisite for Kry to fulfill its obligations under the Data Protection Regulation is that the company is aware of what processing occurs under its responsibility. Kry has stated that the company has had routines to follow up on its processing of personal data. According to the company, however, no follow-up was made regarding which personal data was collected and transferred to Meta via the pixel, as settings were made in the customer data platform that were intended to ensure a limited and secure processing of personal data.  
Kry has, for a long period, from May 28, 2020, to May 17, 2022, transferred data about the end users to Meta that were not intended to be transferred. Only after the company received information about the incident from external sources did the company conduct checks that confirmed that such a transfer had occurred. In light of this, IMY assesses that Kry cannot be considered to have had the systematic routines required to identify such inadvertent changes in the processing of personal data that the activation of the Meta pixel's AAM function entailed. This has resulted in Kry lacking control over the processing and the ability to detect the current deficiency. IMY therefore assesses that Kry, even considering the security measures taken at the time of the incident, has not met the necessary requirements.  
Page 9 of 11
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
10(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

the violation, cannot be considered to have taken appropriate technical and organizational measures in relation to the risks that the processing has entailed. Kry has therefore processed personal data in violation of Article 32.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Choice of Intervention  
The Swedish Data Protection Authority (IMY) has the opportunity to impose a number of measures, so-called corrective powers, against those who have violated the General Data Protection Regulation. Article 58.2 and Article 83.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation state that IMY has the authority to impose administrative fines in accordance with Article 83 of the same regulation. If it concerns a minor violation, IMY may, as indicated in Recital 148 of the General Data Protection Regulation, instead of imposing a fine, issue a reprimand in accordance with Article 58.2 b. Consideration shall be given to aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the case, such as the nature, severity, and duration of the violation, as well as previous violations of relevance.  
The established violation has occurred because Kry processed personal data with an insufficient level of security, which has led to the company inadvertently transferring data about a large number of data subjects to Meta. The transfer has been ongoing for a long time and was not discovered and addressed until an external party informed Kry of the deficiency. Furthermore, the violation occurred within healthcare, where data subjects must be considered to have had a legitimate expectation of a high degree of confidentiality. However, Kry has taken several measures that have limited the intrusion into customers' personal privacy and have resulted in the inadvertent transfer not including data of a sensitive nature. Furthermore, the measures taken by the company have resulted in the personal data being transferred in a hashed, that is, unreadable, format to a single recipient, and thus it does not involve uncontrolled disclosure where the data, for example, has been shared with many unauthorized parties or has been publicly available on the web.  
In an overall assessment, IMY finds that this is a minor violation as referred to in Recital 148 of the General Data Protection Regulation and that Kry should therefore be given a reprimand.  
__________________________  
This decision has been made by the unit manager Nidia Nordenström after presentation by the lawyer Maja Welander. In the final handling of the case, the IT and information security specialist Petter Flink has also participated.  

Nidia Nordenström  

Copy to  
Kry's Data Protection Officer  

Page 10 of 11  

Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: Kry International AB  
11(11)  
Date: 2024-12-19  

How to Appeal  
If you wish to appeal the decision, you should write to IMY. Indicate in the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal must be received by IMY within three weeks from the day you were informed of the decision. However, if you are a party representing the public interest, the appeal must be received within three weeks from the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been submitted in a timely manner, IMY will forward it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.  
You may email the appeal to IMY if it does not contain any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be subject to confidentiality. The authority's contact details are provided on the first page of the decision.  

Page 11 of 11