Press Release: No. 02/2023
Magdeburg, April 11, 2023

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 
Fear of transparency?!
 
State representative calls for the amendment to change the data to be stopped
Tenant Protection Act!

 

 
The government factions have submitted an application to change the state data protection
law (DSAG LSA) into the state parliament, with which the election of the state
commissioned for data protection is to be re-regulated. The state officer is
as an official supervisory authority for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt. After the
The draft law should make the obligation to publicly
writing is omitted. Instead, the parliamentary groups should have the right to propose
the election to be introduced in the Landtag.

This violates the legal requirement of transparency, i.e. the traceable
ability for third parties. A tender is the only way transparent
to determine which candidates are specifically considered at all
men. It is not possible for the parliamentary groups to come up with an election proposal
recognize which candidates have been approached or are being considered
have been. In particular, there are no specifications for the parliamentary groups, the selection
document and disclose the process.

“Transparency is an essential part of our democracy. She prevented
Abuse of power and corruption and is used by the legislature for the election of the state
commissioned expressly demanded.” Albert Cohaus, the incumbent state
commissioned, off.

The waiver of the public tender violates both the European
legal transparency requirement according to Art. 53 Para. 1 General Data Protection Regulation (DS-
GVO) as well as against the obligation to advertise vacancies in accordance with Section 9 of the state civil service
law LSA. "backroom decisions" and "political tweaks".
thus opening the door.

The justification for the draft law does not address the question of European
a legally required transparency. Furthermore, a possible
Violation of the Art. 33 Para. 2 Basic Law (GG) specifying tender
obligation of the State Civil Service Act not discussed. These violations were
in the present draft law (https://www.landtag.sachsen-anhalt.de/fileadmin/fi-

Press Release: No. 02/2023
Magdeburg, April 11, 2023

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

les/drs/wp8/drs/d2255rge.pdf) apparently not recognized. The same applies to the individual
en entitlement of potential applicants to an application procedure according to Art. 33 para.
2GG

The Thuringian Court of Auditors came to the conclusion as part of a special audit
come that for public bodies there is a general obligation to advertise
(https://www.thueringer-rechnungshof.de/files/186E0098A99/Sonderbericht.pdf).
stands
The State Commissioner for Data Protection therefore also suggests such a
che exam.

To this end, the legislative process must now be suspended or aborted.
the.

  

Background information:

The state commissioner is the supervisory authority for data protection in person
Saxony-Anhalt. He is not a political official. Rather, are compelling factual
Entry requirements such as B. professional qualifications, experience and expertise
in the area of data protection. The in § 21 paragraph 1 sentence 2 DSAG LSA
regulated minimum requirements are stipulated by European law. So you stand
not at the disposal of the state parliament.

As a temporary civil servant, the state commissioner is fundamentally subject to statutory regulations
Regulations of the State Civil Service Act for this group of people. So also applies
for his position the obligation to advertise according to § 9 para. 1 State Civil Service Act
LSA.

 

The following excerpts from the special report of the Thüringer
Court of Auditors of March 13, 2023:

•

“In the case of recruitment, the procedure is only economical and economical if the
Article 33 para. 2 GG required selection of the best is guaranteed. sense and
The purpose of selecting the best is the best possible fulfillment of public tasks
to be ensured by the best staff - this is the objective legal meaning
of Art. 33 (2) GG. The staff in administration should be provided with specialist knowledge,
professional performance and loyal fulfillment of duties ensure stable management
and thus a balancing factor in relation to which the life of the state
tending political forces.” (page 8)


L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

Press Release: No. 02/2023
Magdeburg, April 11, 2023

•

•

•

"In addition, Art. 33 Para. 2 GG grants a right equal to fundamental rights, the
named application process claim. “After that, every applicant for a
public office – or, in the absence of an advertisement, anyone who is ex officio
to participate in a selection decision on the award of a public office
refer is - the right, when the public office is awarded, only on grounds
to be disregarded that are in line with Article 33.2 of the Basic Law.
I mean: only if someone else is better." (Page 8)
"Principally, before civil servants are hired, a public
exercise required” (page 8)
(Note: In Saxony-Anhalt: § 9 Paragraph 1 State Civil Service Act LSA)
"Regardless of the extent of the obligation to tender, a best
to perform a selection. This requires both the objective-legal compo-
33 para. 2 GG as well as the subjective-legal candidate
other potential applicants.” (Page 9)

•

• If a non-performance criterion - such as a political view - becomes
nigen) standard of the selection decision raised, is a violation of the
The principle of selecting the best is objectionable. According to Art. 3 Para. 3 GG,
people are disadvantaged or favored because of their political views
become” (page 9).
"Despite all the peculiarities, the principle of
Best selection unrestricted. Art. 33 GG stipulates that access to all
public offices based on suitability, qualifications and professional performance
has taken place (principle of selection of the best). This principle serves the public
chen interest in the best possible staffing of the public
Service whose level of expertise and legal integrity is guaranteed by the
undiminished application of the best selection principle is guaranteed
should be.” (Page 20, 21)

Note: If an obligation to advertise is already in place for political civil servants,
can be demanded, this must apply all the more to "normal" civil servants.

 

Imprint:
 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
Otto-von-Guericke-Str. 34a, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

