                                                           Legal cabinet

N/REF: 0032/2021

The query raises the question of "whether it would be failing to comply with the
premises of the RGPD for the fact of communicating the Office of Prevention and
Fight against Corruption the personal data of all citizens
vaccinated without them being anonymized or although, and taking into account the
regulations previously exposed, it would be coherent and sufficient to provide the
anonymized data or limit it exclusively to what is strictly necessary
for the purpose of the investigation initiated by the aforementioned Office, which in
no case has been detailed in the request received”.

For these purposes, the request for information sent by
the Office for the prevention and fight against corruption of the Balearic Islands
Health Service of the Balearic Islands, in order to facilitate, in
relation to the vaccination protocols of the Balearic Islands against
COVID-19 and the specific actions of inoculation of the vaccines, and between
other requested information, the following:

2.1. Regarding each of the vaccination processes and equipment:
establishment, office or premises where the vaccination was performed
(residences, PAC, hospitals, clinics and others), lists of people
initially planned for vaccination, persons actually vaccinated,
supplied vials and rejected vials (if applicable).

2.2. Name, surnames and DNI of the vaccinated person.
23. Identification of the group to which it corresponds in the protocol of

vaccination.

2.4. Day and time of the first and second dose (as long as the latter,

in case it has been inoculated).

2.5. Identification of the supplied vial (numerical code).

I

As this Agency has repeatedly pointed out, in the
At the time of formulating the query, the new regime should be based on
established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of
these data by repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation of
data protection, RGPD) and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights.

Indeed, as indicated in the Explanatory Memorandum of Law 3/2018 "the
The greatest novelty presented by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of
a model based, fundamentally, on the control of compliance with another

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

one

Legal cabinet

which rests on the principle of active responsibility, which requires prior
assessment by the person in charge or by the person in charge of the treatment of the risk that
could generate the processing of personal data for, from
of said assessment, adopt the appropriate measures”.

Therefore, it is the data controller who must comply
with the principles that are included in article 5 of the RGPD, among which are
finds, as seen, that of proactive responsibility, collected in its
section 2, “the data controller shall be responsible for compliance
of the provisions of section 1 and able to demonstrate it ("responsibility
proactive”)”. And among the principles of section 1 is that of “legality”,
collected in its letter a), so that the personal data will be treated in
lawful manner, regulating article 6 the legal bases that determine the
legality of the treatment. Therefore, it is the data controller who
It is necessary to determine the legal basis that can protect the treatment
correspondent.

Finally, a fundamental role within this new model of
active responsibility established in the General Regulation of Protection of
Data will be performed by the data protection delegate, which the Regulation
General regulates in its articles 37 to 39. In particular, article 37.1 a)
compulsorily imposes the designation of a delegate in the cases in which
that “the treatment is carried out by a public authority or body, except
courts acting in the exercise of their judicial function.

In turn, article 38.1 clearly establishes that “The person in charge and the
in charge of the treatment will guarantee that the delegate of data protection
participate appropriately and in a timely manner in all matters
relating to the protection of personal data” and article 39.2 provides that “The
data protection delegate will perform his duties by providing the
due attention to the risks associated with treatment operations,
taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment".

Finally, article 39.1 enumerates the functions of the delegate of
data protection, among which are "informing and advising the
responsible or in charge of the treatment and the employees who deal with
of the treatment of the obligations incumbent upon them by virtue of this
Regulation and other data protection provisions of the Union or of
Member States” (section a), “supervise compliance with the
provided in this Regulation, of other provisions for the protection of
data of the Union or of the Member States and the policies of the person in charge
or of the person in charge of processing in matters of personal data protection,
including the assignment of responsibilities, awareness and training of the
personnel involved in processing operations, and audits
corresponding" (section b) and "offer the advice requested

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

two

Legal cabinet

about the impact assessment related to data protection and
supervise its application in accordance with article 35 (paragraph c).

Likewise, it is up to the data protection delegate to “act
as a point of contact for the supervisory authority for matters relating to the
treatment, including the prior consultation referred to in article 36, and carry out
queries, where appropriate, on any other matter” (section e).

Therefore, if the data controller has doubts about the
legal basis that can determine the legality of a certain treatment
You should consult your data protection delegate in the cases in which
that, like the present one, its designation is mandatory, who must provide the
accurate advice.

Only in the event that the data protection delegate had doubts
legal decisions on the matter submitted for its consideration that cannot
resolved with the criteria already informed by the AEPD or because it is a
new issues arising from the application of the new legal regime of
protection of personal data and that have a general scope in the
that a report that contributes to legal certainty is convenient,
said delegate may submit a query to this Legal Office, accompanying
to said consultation its own report in which it is analyzed in detail and
reasoned the questions object of consultation.

In the present case, the consultation is carried out by the Protection Delegate
of Data of the Health Service of the Balearic Islands by means of a document
brief in which it is limited to raising the doubt raised with a concise
foundation. Therefore, this Agency considers that, in accordance with the
criteria indicated, it would have been necessary a motivated and detailed analysis of
the issues raised, taking into account the nature of the consulting entity
and the entity requesting the information, as well as the regulations,
jurisprudence and applicable doctrine. However, given the general interest
appreciable in the referred query and its urgency, we proceed to the
issuance of this report.

II

Law 16/2016, of December 9, creating the Office of
Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands creates, in its
Article 1, the aforementioned Office, which depends organically on the Parliament of the
Balearic Islands and exercises its functions with full independence, subject to
only to the legal system and is configured as an entity of
public law, with its own legal personality and full capacity to act
for the fulfillment of its purposes.

Its functions include, in relation to prevention,
investigation and the fight against corruption, in accordance with article 5.c).4º,
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

3

Legal cabinet

“Investigate or inspect possible cases of irregular use or destination of
public funds, as well as conduct contrary to integrity or contrary to
the principles of objectivity, effectiveness and full submission to the law and the right”,
delimiting its functions in article 6:

Article 6. Delimitation of functions.

1. The Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption in
Illes Balears acts in any case in collaboration, and with the respect
to the functions that correspond to them, with other organs and entities
of the Balearic Islands that exercise powers of control and
supervision of the actions of the Government, of the administrations
public and other entities of the public sector. The regulation of
operation and internal regime of the Office will regulate the
specific procedure for action in cases of exercise of
concurrent functions with other organs.

2. The Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption does not have
competences in the functions and subjects that correspond to the
judicial authority, the public prosecutor's office and the judicial police, nor can
investigate the same facts that are the subject of their investigations.
In the event that the judicial authority or the public prosecutor initiates a
procedure to determine the criminal relevance of facts that
constitute at the same time the object of investigative actions
of the Office, the latter must immediately interrupt said actions and
immediately provide all the information available to the
competent authority, in addition to providing, with regard to
investigation tasks, the necessary support to the authority
competent.

3. When the investigations of the Office of Prevention and
Fight against Corruption affect the Parliament of the Balearic Islands,
the statutory entities, the insular and local administrations, the
University of the Balearic Islands and, in general, the entities that enjoy
constitutionally or statutorily recognized autonomy, will be carried out
carried out in such a way as to guarantee due respect for their autonomy.

On the other hand, article 10 develops the powers of investigation and

inspection:

Article 10. Powers of investigation and inspection.
1. In the exercise of the functions of investigation and inspection, the
Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands
can access any information held by the
bodies, public bodies or natural or legal persons,
public or private, included in its scope of action. In the case of
individuals, the powers of inspection shall be limited to those
activities related to contracts, grants or
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

4

Legal cabinet

public subsidies granted. In any case, access to
information must be justified, the relationship with the
investigated activity and it must be recorded in the
proceedings.

2. The director of the Office for the Prevention and Fight against
Corruption or, by express delegation, the deputy director or the director
deputy or an official of the Office who has
assigned investigation and inspection functions can:

a) Go to any office or dependency of the
Administration or center affected by a public service to request
information, carry out on-the-spot checks and examine documents,
files, books, records, accounting and databases
data, whatever the medium in which they are recorded, as well as the
physical and logistical equipment used, accrediting the condition of
authority or agent of the Office.

b) Carry out the personal interviews that are estimated
convenient, both in the corresponding administrative dependency
as in the headquarters of the Office. The people interviewed who have or
that it can be deduced that they have some type of responsibility, they can
be accompanied and assisted by the person designated. In addition,
have the rights and guarantees established by current legislation,
including the rights to remain silent and to legal assistance.

c) Access, if permitted by current legislation, to the information
of bank accounts in which payments have been made or
dispositions of funds related to procedures of
award of public contracts or granting of aid or
public subsidies, through timely request.

d) Determine, in order to guarantee the indemnity of the data
that can be collected, that authentic copies be made of the
documents obtained, whatever the support in which they are found
stored.

Regarding the conclusion of the proceedings, article 16 provides,
fundamentally, the issuance of a reasoned report on the conclusions
of the investigation, which may include recommendations and reminders, to be
sends to the corresponding body in each case:

Article 16. Conclusion of the proceedings.
1. The director of the Office for the Prevention and Fight against
Corruption in the Balearic Islands will issue a reasoned report on the
conclusions of the investigations, which will be sent to the body that in each
appropriate case, which, subsequently and within a period of three months,
inform the director or the director of the Office of Prevention and Fight
against Corruption on the measures adopted or, where appropriate, the

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

5

Legal cabinet

reasons that prevent you from acting in accordance with the recommendations and
the reminders given.
2. If in the course of the actions undertaken by the Office of
Prevention and Fight against Corruption, there are signs that
have committed disciplinary infractions or have engaged in conduct or
presumably criminal acts, the director or the director of the Office
will communicate it to the body that corresponds in each case, as well as,
immediately, to the public prosecutor's office or to the judicial authority in case of
evidence of crime. It will also be transferred to the Audit Office
In the event that the investigations may lead to a possible
Accounting responsibility, direct or subsidiary.
3. The Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption can lead
reasoned recommendations to administrations and public entities
in which it urges the modification, cancellation or incorporation of
criteria in order to avoid dysfunctions or practices
administrative areas that can be improved, in the assumptions and areas of
risk of irregular conduct detected.
4. If the social relevance or importance of the facts that have
motivated the action of the Office for the Prevention and Fight against
Corruption require it, the director or the director of the Office can
present to the corresponding parliamentary committee, on its own initiative
or by agreement of the same commission, the report or reports
corresponding extraordinary

Likewise, it is expected that the conclusions derived from the action
investigator and inspector will be collected in the annual report that will be sent to
the Bureau of the Parliament, as regulated in article 13:

Article 13. Annual report.

one.
In the first three months of each annuity, the Office of
Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands will elaborate
an annual report describing the set of actions
developed during the previous year, in which an analysis
of the conclusions derived from the investigative action and
inspector, and the proposal of measures that are considered appropriate,
as well as the reference to the measures or actions adopted by the
competent bodies.
Personal data that allows the identification of the individuals will not be included.
people affected unless these are public as a consequence
of a final sentence or that have been sanctioned in firm by
contravene the duty of collaboration established in article 9 of this
law. In any case, the number and type of actions must be stated.
undertaken, with the express indication of the initiated files, the
dedication, the time and resources used, the results of the
investigations carried out and specification of recommendations

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

6

Legal cabinet

and the requirements addressed to administrations and entities
public, as well as their allegations.
The memory will also contain the files processed that have
been sent to the judicial authority or the public prosecutor's office, the estimate
of the possible economic amounts claimed in court or
administrative, the variations corresponding to the management of the personnel
own and the liquidation of the budget of the Office of Prevention and
Fight against Corruption from the previous year.
The liquidation of the budget of the Office of Prevention and Fight
against Corruption in the previous year and the situation of the workforce,
with the list of jobs, they must also appear in the
annual memory.
2. The annual report will be sent to the Bureau of the Parliament of the Illes
Balearic Islands, in order to transfer it to the corresponding commission, which,
in the terms provided by the Regulations of the Parliament and prior
appearance of the director of the Office of Prevention and
Fight against Corruption, can adopt the resolutions that
consider appropriate

Consequently, the possibility of sanctioning the possible
illicit conduct under investigation, establishing a system
sanctioning in Law 16/2016 referred, exclusively, to the infraction of the
collaboration obligations imposed by it.

Therefore, the Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption
configured as a Public Law Entity, attached to the Parliament, to which
control of the performance of the Office and the appointment and
dismissal of its director or director, as well as the approval of the regulation of
operation and internal regime (article 7), with the initiation of
official letter of the actions “On the initiative of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands,
through the agreement of the corresponding parliamentary commission, taken at
either by two parliamentary groups, or by a fifth of the
deputies and deputies of the chamber, either at the request of a commission not
permanent investigation of the Parliament itself” (article 14.1.b).

Consequently, its legal nature would correspond to that of a
auxiliary body of parliamentary bodies, participating in political control
which corresponds to them.

Likewise, the functions that
correspond to the judicial authority and the public prosecutor's office, as recalled
clearly its Statement of Motives (“The fulfillment of the functions of the
Office is understood without prejudice to those entrusted to other bodies, to
that complements acting in different operational stages, such as the
General Intervention and institutions such as the Síndic de Greuges or the Sindicatura
of Accounts and its insular and municipal equivalents, and with exemption from the
which correspond exclusively to the judicial authority and the ministry
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

7

Legal cabinet

fiscal) and provides its article 6.2: "The Office of Prevention and Fight against
Corruption does not have powers in the functions and matters that
correspond to the judicial authority, the public prosecutor's office and the judicial police, nor
It can investigate the same facts that are the object of its investigations.”

All this without prejudice to the due collaboration of the
Office with the judicial authority and the public prosecutor through communication,
when appropriate, of the result of the investigations (article 5.c) 2º and 16.2), the
interruption of the proceedings, remittance of all the information and provision
of the support that is necessary when the judicial authority or the public prosecutor
initiate a procedure to determine the criminal relevance of certain facts
that constitute at the same time the object of investigative actions of
the Office (article 6.2), in addition to being configured as an entity of
cooperation and permanent relationship with the judicial authority and the public prosecutor's office
(article 9.2.).

Therefore, taking into account the legal nature of the Office of
Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands and the functions
attributed to it, this Agency considers that the data processing of
personal character that can be carried out by the same are subject to the
general regime contained in the RGPD and not the special regime of the Directive
(EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or
of execution of penal sanctions, and to the free circulation of said data and
repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council, and whose
The transposition rule is currently being processed in the Senate.
In this regard, we must start from what is stated in article 3.7 of the Directive
that defines as competent authorities, for the purposes of the same, "all
competent public authority for the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions,
including protection and prevention against security threats
public”, or “any other body or entity to which the Law of the State
member has entrusted the exercise of public authority and powers
for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including protection
and prevention against threats to public safety”.

In this sense, recital 11 of the Directive states that

“It is therefore appropriate that these areas be regulated by a
directive establishing the specific rules relating to the protection
of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information by the competent authorities for purposes of
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of violations
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection and
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

8

Legal cabinet

prevention against threats to public safety. Between
such competent authorities should not only include authorities
such as the judicial authorities, the police or other forces and
security forces, but also any other body or entity
in which the law of the Member State has entrusted the exercise of
authority and public powers for the purposes of this
Directive. When said body or entity processes personal data with
purposes other than those provided for in this Directive, the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Thus, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
applies in cases where a body or entity collects data
personal for other purposes and proceed to its treatment for the
fulfillment of a legal obligation to which it is subject. For
example, for purposes of investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offences,
financial conserve
certain personal data that they themselves process and only
provide such personal data to national authorities
competent in specific cases and in accordance with the Law of the
Member state. Any agency or entity that processes personal data
on behalf of the aforementioned authorities within the scope of application of
this Directive must be bound by a contract or other act
legal and by the provisions applicable to those in charge of the
treatment under this Directive, while the
application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 remains unchanged for the
processing of personal data by data processors outside
of the scope of application of this Directive.

institutions

the

 

And as this Agency already pointed out when informing the bill
of transposition of the Directive in its report 122/2018, reiterated
later in report 29/2002:

The example mentioned in recital 11 is expressive in
clearly indicate that the treatment carried out by the subject
obliged to communicate the data to a competent authority is
subject to the provisions of the General Regulation for the protection of
data and not those of the Directive, without prejudice to the fact that once
communicated the data to the competent authority will be applicable to that
treatment as established in the Directive, but without that application
implies that the obligated subject is subject to the provisions of
the latter, since the communication will have been carried out at the
protection of article 6.1 c) of the regulation.

III

Once the regulations applicable to data processing have been determined
personnel that can be carried out by the Office for the Prevention and Fight against
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

9

Legal cabinet

Corruption of the Balearic Islands, it is appropriate to attend to the specific case, in which
They request numerous personal data related to the people who have
been vaccinated against COVID19.

For this, it is necessary to start from the consideration of the information
corresponding to the fact of vaccination as a data relative to health,
given the breadth with which such data is considered in the GDPR.

In this sense, article 4.15 of the RGPD defines as "data relating to
to health”, those personal data related to the physical or mental health of
a natural person, including the provision of health care services,
that disclose information about your health status;

For its part, Recital (35) Among the personal data relating to
health should include all data relating to the state of health of the
concerned who provide information about their physical or mental health
past, present or future. (...) any number, symbol or data assigned to a
natural person who uniquely identifies it for health purposes; the
information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or of a
body substance, including from genetic data and samples
biological, and any information relating, by way of example, to a
disease, disability, risk of disease, history
medical, clinical treatment or the physiological or biomedical state of the interested party,
regardless of its source, for example a doctor or other professional
healthcare, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test.

And the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union comes
also advocating a broad interpretation of the concept, as
already pointed out the Judgment of November 6, 2003 (case C-101/01,
Lindqvist) interpreting Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 24, 1995, relative to the protection of people
physical with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data, in section 50:

Taking into account the purpose of this Directive, it is necessary to give a
broad interpretation of the term "health data",
used in its article 8, paragraph 1, so that it understands the
information relating to all aspects, both physical and psychic,
of a person's health.

From the foregoing, it must be concluded that the information regarding the condition
having received the vaccine, as soon as it reveals information about the state of
health of the people who have received it, is a health data, and therefore
must be included within the "special categories of data" in accordance with the
article 9 of the RGPD.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

10

Legal cabinet

Regarding the processing of personal data corresponding to the
"special categories of data", the general rule is its prohibition, as
It is included in article 9.1. of the GDPR:

The processing of personal data is prohibited
reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, convictions
religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union affiliation, and data processing
genetic, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying
a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to life
sexual orientation or sexual orientation of a natural person.

Therefore, the processing of special categories of data
personal must find coverage in article 9.2 RGPD and once
Except for the general prohibition, it is necessary to resort to the assumptions of the
article 6 RGPD to give legality to the treatment in question. This was already indicated by
Article 29 Working Group (whose functions have been assumed by the
European Committee for Data Protection) in its opinion “Guidelines on
automated individual decisions and profiling for the purposes
of Regulation 2016/679” when indicating that (…) Those responsible for the treatment
they can only process special category personal data if a
of the conditions provided for in article 9, paragraph 2, as well as a
condition of article 6.(…), and more recently, the European Committee of
Data Protection in its "Guidelines 03/2020 on data processing
related to health for scientific research purposes in the context of the outbreak
of COVID-19, adopted on April 21, 2020”:

All processing of personal data relating to health must
comply with the relevant principles set out in article 5 of the GDPR
and conform to one of the legal bases and specific exceptions
listed, respectively, in article 6 and article 9 of the
RGPD for the legality of the treatment of this special category of data
personal.

Therefore, the first thing to analyze is whether any of the
exceptions that lift the prohibition of the processing of data relating to
health and that are included in section 2 of article 9 of the RGPD, when indicating
which will not apply in the following cases:

a) the interested party gave his explicit consent for the treatment
of such personal data for one or more of the specified purposes,
except when the law of the Union or of the Member States
establishes that the prohibition mentioned in paragraph 1 cannot be
raised by the interested party;

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of
obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the person responsible for the
treatment or of the interested party in the field of labor law and
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

eleven

Legal cabinet

security and social protection, to the extent authorized by the
Union law of the Member States or a collective agreement
in accordance with the law of the Member States that establishes
adequate guarantees of respect for fundamental rights and
interests of the interested party;

 c) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the
interested party or another natural person, in the event that the interested party
is not able, physically or legally, to give consent;

  d) the treatment is carried out, within the scope of its activities
legitimate and with due guarantees, by a foundation, an association
or any other non-profit organization, whose purpose is
political, philosophical, religious or trade union, provided that the treatment is
refer exclusively to current or former members of such
organizations or persons who have regular contact with them
in relation to its purposes and provided that the personal data is not
communicate outside of them without the consent of the interested parties;

 e) the treatment refers to personal data that the interested party

has manifestly made public;

 f) the processing is necessary for the formulation, exercise or
defense of claims or when the courts act in the exercise of
its judicial function;

 g) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest
essential, on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the States
members, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect in
essential the right to data protection and establish measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party;

h) the treatment is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine or
work, evaluation of the work capacity of the worker, diagnosis
medical care, provision of care or treatment of a health or social nature,
o management of health and social care systems and services,
on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States or on
under a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the
conditions and guarantees contemplated in section 3;

 i) the treatment is necessary for reasons of public interest in the
field of public health, such as protection against threats
serious cross-border risks to health, or to ensure high levels
quality and safety of health care and
medicines or health products, on the basis of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States that establishes adequate measures and
specific to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party, in
particularly professional secrecy,

  j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes,
in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, on the basis of the Law
of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional to the
objective pursued, to respect essentially the right to protection of
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

12

Legal cabinet

data and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the interested party. (...).

In relation to these causes that lift the prohibition of treatment
of the special categories of personal data, the LOPDGDD contemplates
specific provisions in its article 9:

Article 9. Special categories of data.

1. For the purposes of article 9.2.a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
In order to avoid discriminatory situations, the sole consent of the
concerned will not suffice to lift the ban on data processing
whose main purpose is to identify their ideology, union affiliation,
religion, sexual orientation, beliefs, or racial or ethnic origin.

The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not prevent the processing of
said data under the other assumptions contemplated in the
Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when appropriate.

2. The data processing contemplated in letters g), h) and i)
of article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 founded on the Law
Spanish must be covered by a rule with the force of law, which
may establish additional requirements related to your security and
confidentiality.

In particular, said rule may protect the processing of data
in the field of health when required by the management of the systems and
health and social assistance services, public and private, or the execution
of an insurance contract to which the affected party is a party.

Likewise, in relation to the processing of health data, the
LOPDGDD contains specific provisions in its additional provision
seventeenth, stating in section 1 the following:

1. They are covered by letters g), h), i) and j) of the article
9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 data processing
related to health and genetic data that are regulated in
the following laws and their development provisions:

a) Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.
b) Law 31/1995, of November 8, on Risk Prevention

Labor.

c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulation of the
patient autonomy and rights and obligations in terms of
information and clinical documentation.

d) Law 16/2003, of May 28, on cohesion and quality of

National system of health.

health professions.

e) Law 44/2003, of November 21, on the management of

f) Law 14/2007, of July 3, on Biomedical Research.
g) Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

13

Legal cabinet

h) Law 20/2015, of July 14, on management, supervision and

solvency of insurance and reinsurance entities.

i) The consolidated text of the Law on guarantees and rational use of
105 medicines and health products, approved by Royal Decree
Legislative 1/2015, of July 24.

j) The consolidated text of the General Law on the rights of
people with disabilities and their social inclusion, approved by Royal
Legislative Decree 1/2013 of November 29.

However, as indicated in the Report of this Agency 101/2019,

[…] the content of the seventeenth additional provision of the
LOPDGDD must be considered that although a list is established
exhaustive, said circumstance does not prevent the processing of data of
health can rely on other standards that are not cited in the same
provided that any of the circumstances provided for in the
article 9.2 of the RGPD and the regulation established for that purpose has range
law and comply with the guarantees that the Constitutional Court considers
essential when dealing with special categories
of data.

For its part, article 6 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that
allow the processing of data to be considered lawful, according to which
indicates the following:

1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the

following conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the treatment of his

personal data for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in
which the interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of
pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a

legal obligation applicable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the

interested party or another natural person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers
conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of interests
legitimate pursued by the data controller or by a
third party, provided that the interests do not prevail over said interests.
or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require
the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested party is
child.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

14

Legal cabinet

As has been revealed, articles 6 and 9 of the RGPD
determine the assumptions that allow the processing of personal data, with
general character, and with specific character with respect to the categories
special data, respectively.

For its part, article 8 of the LOPDGDD under the heading “Treatment of
data by legal obligation, public interest or exercise of public powers”
sets the following:

1. The processing of personal data can only be considered
based on compliance with a legal obligation required by the
responsible, in the terms provided in article 6.1.c) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when so provided for by a regulation of
Law of the European Union or a regulation with the force of law, which may
determine the general conditions of the treatment and the types of data
object of the same as well as the transfers that proceed as
consequence of the fulfillment of the legal obligation. Said rule
may also impose special conditions on the processing, such
such as the adoption of additional security measures or other
established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The processing of personal data can only be considered
based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or
in the exercise of public powers conferred on the controller, in the
terms provided for in article 6.1 e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
when it derives from a competence attributed by a norm with rank
Of law.

Lastly, once the concurrence of any of the
exceptions of article 9.2. and a legal basis of article 6.1., must be given
compliance with the rest of the principles contained in article 5 of the RGPD:

1. The personal data will be:
a) processed lawfully, fairly and transparently in relation to the

interested party (“lawfulness, loyalty and transparency”);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not
will be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes;
according to article 89, paragraph 1, the further treatment of the
personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest,
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to

for the purposes for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all will be adopted
reasonable measures so that they are deleted or rectified without delay

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

fifteen

Legal cabinet

personal data that is inaccurate with respect to the purposes for
those discussed ("accuracy");

e) maintained in such a way as to allow the identification of the
stakeholders for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of the
processing of personal data; personal data may
be kept for longer periods as long as they are treated
exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance
with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of the
appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party
(“Limitation of retention period”);

f) treated in such a way as to guarantee the safety
adequate use of personal data, including protection against
unauthorized or unlawful treatment and against its loss, destruction or
accidental damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The data controller shall be responsible for the
compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it
("proactive responsibility").

IV

Once exposed, in general, the legal framework applicable to
health treatments, it is appropriate to analyze the possible concurrence of any of the
assumptions that allow lifting the prohibition of data processing of
health in accordance with article 9.2. of the RGPD and article 9.2. of the LOPDGDD and,
particularly, given the competences attributed to the requesting Office, the
provided for in letter g) of article 9.2. of the GDPR:

g) the treatment is necessary for reasons of an essential public interest,
on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which
must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect essentially the
right to data protection and establish adequate measures and
specific to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the
interested.

In relation to the interpretation and scope of said precept, it has been

recently pronounced by this Agency in its reports 31/2019 and 36/2020:

“However, when dealing with special categories of data, the
assumption referred to in letter g) of article 9.2. does not refer only to
the existence of a public interest, as it does in many other
its precepts the RGPD, but it is the only precept of the RGPD that
requires that it be "essential", an adjective that comes to qualify
this public interest, taking into account the importance and necessity of
greater protection of the processed data.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

16

Legal cabinet

Said precept finds its precedent in article 8.4 of the Directive
95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24,
1995, relative to the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data:
"4. Provided they have adequate guarantees, the States
Members may, for reasons of important public interest, establish
other exceptions, in addition to those provided for in section 2, either
through its national legislation, either by decision of the
control". However, its reading results in a greater rigor in the new
regulation by the RGPD, since the adjective "important" is replaced by
“essential” and it is not allowed that the exception can be established by the
control authorities.

In relation to what should be understood as public interest
essential, the jurisprudence of the
European Court of Human Rights, which under article 8
of the European Convention on Human Rights, has been considering that
the processing of personal data constitutes a lawful interference in the
right to respect for private life and can only be carried out if
performs in accordance with the law, serves a legitimate purpose, respects the
essence of fundamental rights and freedoms and it is necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to achieve an end
legitimate (D.L. against Bulgaria, no. 7472/14, May 19, 2016,
Dragojević v. Croatia, #68955/11, 15 January 2015, Peck
v. United Kingdom, No. 44647/98, January 28, 2003, Leander v.
Sweden, No. 9248/81, March 26, 1987, among others). As he points out in
the last sentence cited, "the concept of necessity implies that the
interference responds to a pressing social need and, in particular,
that it is proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued”.

Likewise, the doctrine of the Court should be taken into account
Constitutional regarding restrictions on the fundamental right to
data protection, which it synthesizes in its sentence 292/2000, of 30
November, in which after configuring the fundamental right to
protection of personal data as an autonomous right and
independent power consisting of a power of disposition and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which
of these data provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or
which this third party can collect, and which also allows the individual
know who owns that personal data and for what, being able to
oppose that possession or use, analyzes its limits, pointing out
in the following:

More specifically, in the aforementioned Judgments regarding the
data protection, this Court has declared that the right to
data protection is not unlimited, and although the Constitution does not
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

17

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

expressly impose specific limits, or refer to the
Public Powers for its determination as it has done with other
fundamental rights, there is no doubt that they must
find them in the remaining fundamental rights and goods
constitutionally protected legal rights, as required by the
principle of unity of the Constitution (SSTC 11/1981, of 8
April, F. 7; 196/1987, of December 11 [RTC 1987, 196], F. 6; Y
regarding art. 18, the STC 110/1984, F. 5). Those limits or
may be direct restrictions on the fundamental right itself,
which have been alluded to before, or they may be restrictions on the
mode, time or place of exercise of the fundamental right. At
In the first case, regulating these limits is a form of development of the
fundamental right. In the second, the limits that are set
are to the concrete form in which the beam of
powers that make up the content of the fundamental right in
issue, constituting a way to regulate its exercise, which
can be done by the ordinary legislator in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 53.1 CE. The first observation that must be made, which
obviously it is less capital, it is that the Constitution has wanted
that the Law, and only the Law, can set the limits to a right
fundamental. Fundamental rights can yield, from
then, before goods, and even interests constitutionally
relevant, as long as the cut they experience is
necessary to achieve the intended legitimate purpose, proportionate to
achieve it and, in any case, be respectful of the content
essential of the restricted fundamental right (SSTC 57/1994, of
February 28 [RTC 1994, 57], F. 6; 18/1999, of February 22
[RTC 1999, 18], F. 2).

Precisely, if the Law is the only one authorized by the Constitution
to set limits on fundamental rights and, in the case
present, to the fundamental right to data protection, and those
limits cannot be different from those constitutionally
foreseen, which in this case are none other than those derived from the
coexistence of this fundamental right with other rights and
legal goods of constitutional rank, legal empowerment
that allows a Public Power to collect, store, treat, use and,
where appropriate, transferring personal data is only justified if
responds to the protection of other fundamental rights or
constitutionally protected assets. Therefore, if those
Operations with a person's personal data are not
carried out in strict compliance with the rules that regulate it,
violates the right to data protection, since they are imposed
constitutionally illegitimate limits, either to its content or to the
exercise of the bundle of faculties that compose it. as it
will also violate that limiting Law if it regulates the limits of
in such a way as to make the fundamental right impracticable
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

18

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

affected or ineffective the guarantee that the Constitution grants. And so
will be when the Law, which must regulate the limits to the rights
principles with scrupulous respect for their essential content,
is limited to empowering another Public Power to set in each case
the restrictions that may be imposed on the rights
fundamental, whose singular determination and application will be at the
albur of the decisions adopted by that Public Power, who
will be able to decide, in what interests us now, on obtaining,
storage, processing, use and transfer of personal data
in the cases it deems convenient and wielding, even,
interests or assets that are not protected with constitutional status
[...]”. (Legal Basis 11)

  

“On the one hand, because although this Court has declared that the
Constitution does not prevent the State from protecting rights or property
legal rights at the cost of the sacrifice of others equally recognized and,
therefore, that the legislator may impose limitations on the
content of fundamental rights or their exercise,
We have also specified that, in such cases, these
limitations must be justified in the protection of other
constitutional rights or assets (SSTC 104/2000, of 13
April [ RTC 2000, 104] , F. 8 and those cited there) and, in addition, they must
be proportionate to the purpose pursued with them (SSTC 11/1981, F.
5, and 196/1987, F. 6). For otherwise they would incur the
arbitrariness proscribed by art. 9.3 EC.
On the other hand, even having a constitutional basis and
the limitations of the right being proportionate
established by a Law (STC 178/1985 [RTC
1985, 178] ), they can violate the Constitution if they suffer from
lack of certainty and predictability in the very limits they impose
and its mode of application. Conclusion that is corroborated in the
jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights that
has been cited in F. 8 and that here must be considered as reproduced. Y
It should also be noted that it would not only harm the principle of
legal certainty (art. 9.3 CE), conceived as certainty about the
applicable law and reasonably founded expectation of
the person on what should be the action of power applying
the Law (STC 104/2000, F. 7, for all), but at the same
time said Law would be injuring the essential content of the
fundamental right thus restricted, given that the way in which it is
have set its limits make it unrecognizable and make it impossible, in the
practice, its exercise (SSTC 11/1981, F. 15; 142/1993, of 22
April [RTC 1993, 142], F. 4, and 341/1993, of November 18
[RTC 1993, 341], F. 7). Luckily, the lack of precision of the
Law in the material assumptions of the limitation of a right
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

19

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

fundamental is likely to generate an indeterminacy about
the cases to which such a restriction applies. And when this occurs
As a result, beyond any reasonable interpretation, the Law no longer
fulfills its function of guaranteeing the fundamental right itself
that it restricts, because it allows instead to operate simply the
will of the person who has to apply it, thus undermining both the
effectiveness of the fundamental right such as legal certainty […]”.
(FJ15).

“More specifically, in relation to the fundamental right to
privacy we have emphasized not only the need for
its possible limitations are based on a legal provision
that have constitutional justification and that are proportionate
(SSTC 110/1984, F. 3, and 254/1993, F. 7) but the Law that
restrict this right must accurately state each and every
one of the material budgets of the limiting measure. From
If this is not the case, it is difficult to understand that the judicial decision or the act
administrative authority that applies it are founded on the Law, since
what she has done, abandoning her duties, is
empower other Public Powers so that they are the ones
set the limits to the fundamental right (SSTC 37/1989, of 15
February [ RTC 1989, 37], and 49/1999, of April 5 [ RTC 1999,
49]).
Similarly, regarding the right to data protection
personal it can be estimated that the constitutional legitimacy of the
restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself, on
the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it enough that the
Law empowers it to specify in each case its limits,
limiting itself to indicating that it must make such precision when
any constitutionally protected right or asset concurs. Is
the legislator who must determine when that good or
right that justifies the restriction of the right to protection of
personal data and under what circumstances it can be limited and,
furthermore, it is he who must do it by means of precise rules that
make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party.
consequences. For otherwise the legislator would have moved
to the Administration the performance of a function that only he
competent in terms of fundamental rights by virtue of the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the
limit and its regulation. […] (FJ 16)”.

Likewise, our Constitutional Court has already had the opportunity
to pronounce specifically on article 9.2.g) of the RGPD,
as a result of challenging article 58 bis of the Law
Organic 5/1985, of June 19, of the General Electoral Regime,
introduced by the third final provision of Organic Law 3/2018, of
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

twenty

Legal cabinet

December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights, regarding the legitimacy of data collection
information relating to the political opinions of the persons who carry
carried out by political parties in the framework of their electoral activities,
precept that was declared unconstitutional by Judgment no.
76/2019 of May 22.

Said sentence analyzes, in the first place, the legal regime
that is subject to the treatment of special categories
of data in the RGPD:

In accordance with section 1 of art. 9 GDPR, it is prohibited to
processing of personal data revealing opinions
policies, in the same way that data processing is
revealing racial or ethnic origin, religious convictions
religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership and the treatment of
genetic data, biometric data aimed at identifying
unambiguously to a natural person, data related to health or
data relating to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a
Physical person. However, section 2 of the same precept
authorizes the processing of all such data when it concurs
any of the ten circumstances provided therein [letters a) to j)].
Some of those circumstances have a scope
limited (labour, social, associative, health, judicial, etc.) or
respond to a specific purpose, so that, in themselves,
define the specific treatments that they authorize as
exception to the general rule. Furthermore, the enabling efficacy of
several of the assumptions foreseen there is conditioned to the fact that the
The law of the Union or that of the Member States provides for them and
expressly regulate in their field of competence: this is the case
of the circumstances listed in letters a), b), g), h), i) and j).
Treatment of special categories of personal data
is one of the areas in which expressly the
General Data Protection Regulation has recognized the
Member States "room for manoeuvre" when it comes to "specifying
its standards", as qualified by its recital 10. This
margin of legislative configuration extends both to the
determination of the qualifying causes for treatment
of specially protected personal data - that is, to the
identification of essential public interest purposes and the
assessment of the proportionality of the treatment to the end
persecuted, respecting essentially the right to
data protection - such as the establishment of "measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and
fundamental rights of the interested party" [art. 9.2 g) RGPD].
Regulation therefore contains a specific obligation to
Member States to establish such guarantees, in the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

twenty-one

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

in the event that they authorize the processing of personal data
specially protected.

In relation to the first of the requirements demanded by article
9.2.g), the invocation of an essential public interest and the necessary
specification thereof, the High Court recalls what was stated in its
judgment 292/2000 in which it was rejected that the identification of the
legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through concepts
generic or vague formulas, considering that the restriction of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data cannot be based,
by itself, in the generic invocation of an indeterminate "interest
public" :

In the aforementioned STC 292/2000 (RTC 2000, 292), in which
legislative interference in the right to
protection of personal data, we reject that the identification
of the legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through
generic concepts or vague formulas:
"16. [...] Similarly, with respect to the right to protection of
personal data it can be estimated that the constitutional legitimacy of
the restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself,
in the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it enough that the
Law empowers it to specify in each case its limits,
limiting itself to indicating that it must make such precision when
any constitutionally protected right or asset concurs. Is
the legislator who must determine when that good or
right that justifies the restriction of the right to protection of
personal data and under what circumstances it can be limited and,
furthermore, it is he who must do it by means of precise rules that
make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party.
consequences. For otherwise the legislator would have moved
to the Administration the performance of a function that only he
competent in terms of fundamental rights by virtue of the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the
limit and its regulation.
17. In the present case, employment by the LOPD (RCL 2018, 1629)
in your art. 24.1 of the expression "control functions and
verification", opens up a space of uncertainty so wide that
provokes a double and perverse consequence. On one side, to
enable the LOPD to the Administration to restrict rights
fundamental principles by invoking such an expression is renouncing
to set the limits itself, empowering the Administration to
do it. And in such a way that, as the Defender of the
Town, allows to redirect to the same practically all
administrative activity, since all administrative activity that
involves establishing a legal relationship with a company, which
This will be the case in practically all cases in which the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

22

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

Administration needs someone's personal data,
will ordinarily entail the power of the Administration of
verify and control that the administrator has acted in accordance with the
administrative legal regime of the legal relationship established
with the Administration. What, in view of the reason for restriction
of the right to be informed of art. 5 LOPD, leave in the most
absolute uncertainty to the citizen about in which cases
that circumstance will occur (if not in all) and add to the
inefficiency any jurisdictional protection mechanism that must
prosecute such a case of restriction of rights
without any other complementary criterion that comes in
help of its control of administrative action in this
matter.
The same reproaches also deserve the use in art. 24.2
LOPD of the expression "public interest" as the basis of the
imposition of limits to the fundamental rights of art. 18.1 and
4 CE, since it contains an even greater degree of uncertainty. Enough
note that all administrative activity, ultimately,
pursues the safeguarding of general interests, whose
achievement constitutes the purpose to which it must serve with
objectivity the Administration in accordance with art. 103.1 CE."
This argument is fully transferable to the present.
prosecution. Likewise, therefore, we must conclude that the
constitutional legitimacy of the restriction of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data cannot be
based, by itself, on the generic invocation of a
unspecified "public interest". For otherwise the legislator
would have moved the political parties - to whom the provision
challenged authorizes to collect personal data related to the
political views of people within the framework of their
electoral activities - the performance of a function that only
he is responsible for fundamental rights under the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 EC, that is, clearly establish
its limits and regulation.
Nor can we accept, because it is equally imprecise, the purpose
adduced by the State attorney, which refers to the
functioning of the democratic system, since it also contains
a high degree of uncertainty and may involve a
circular reasoning. On the one hand, political parties are
itself "channels necessary for the operation of the system
democratic" (for all, STC 48/2003, of March 12 (RTC
2003, 48), FJ 5); and, on the other hand, the entire operation of the
democratic system ultimately seeks to safeguard
of the purposes, values and constitutional goods, but this does not
manages to identify the reason why the
affected fundamental right.

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

23

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

Finally, it should be specified that it is not necessary to be able to
suspect, with greater or lesser grounds, that the restriction
pursues an unconstitutional purpose, or that the data that is
collect and process will be harmful to the private sphere and the
exercise of the rights of individuals. It is enough with
note that, since it was not possible to identify with sufficient precision
the purpose of the data processing, nor can the
constitutionally legitimate nature of that purpose, nor, in its
case, the proportionality of the planned measure in accordance with
the principles of suitability, necessity and proportionality in
Strict sense.

On the other hand, regarding the guarantees that the
legislator, the aforementioned ruling no. 76/2019 of May 22, after
remember that “In view of the potential intrusive effects on the
affected fundamental right resulting from data processing
personal, the jurisprudence of this Court requires the legislator that,
In addition to meeting the above requirements, you also
establish adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational and
procedural, which prevent risks of different probability and
severity and mitigate its effects, because only in this way can the
respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself”, analyzes
What is the standard that must contain the aforementioned guarantees:

“Therefore, the resolution of this challenge requires that
Let us clarify a doubt that has arisen regarding the scope of our
doctrine of adequate safeguards, which consists of
determine whether adequate safeguards against the use of the
computing must be contained in the law itself that authorizes and
regulates that use or can also be found in other sources
regulations.
The question can only have a constitutional answer. The
Provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a
time after the legal regulation of data processing
personal in question. Adequate collateral must be
incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing, whether
directly or by express and perfectly delimited reference to
external sources that have the appropriate regulatory status. Only
This understanding is compatible with the double requirement that
stems from art. 53.1 CE (RCL 1978, 2836) for the legislator of
fundamental rights: the reservation of law for regulation
of the exercise of the fundamental rights recognized in the
second chapter of the first title of the Constitution and respect
of the essential content of said fundamental rights.
According to reiterated constitutional doctrine, the reservation of law is not
limits itself to requiring that a law authorizes the restrictive measure of
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

24

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

fundamental rights, but it is also necessary, according to
both to demands called -sometimes- of
normative predetermination and -others- of quality of the law as well as
respect for the essential content of the law, which in this regulation
the legislator, who is primarily obliged to weigh the
conflicting rights or interests, predetermine the assumptions, the
conditions and guarantees in which the adoption of
restrictive measures of fundamental rights. That mandate of
predetermination regarding essential elements, linked
also ultimately to the judgment of proportionality of the
limitation of the fundamental right, cannot be deferred to
further legal or regulatory development, nor can it be
leave in the hands of the individuals themselves” (FJ 8).

Therefore, the processing of health data under
of article 9.2.g) requires that it be provided for in a regulation of
European or national law, having in the latter case
said norm, according to the aforementioned constitutional doctrine and the provisions
in article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD, range of law. Said law shall
also specify the essential public interest that justifies the
restriction of the right to protection of personal data and in
what circumstances can be limited, establishing the rules
precise that make foreseeable the imposition of such
limitation and its consequences, without it being sufficient, to these
effects, the generic invocation of a public interest. and said law
It must also establish the appropriate technical guarantees,
organizational and procedural, that prevent the risks of different
likelihood and severity and mitigate their effects.

In addition, said law must respect in all cases the principle
of proportionality, as recalled in the Judgment of the Court
Constitutional 14/2003, of January 28:

In other words, in accordance with a long-standing doctrine of
this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure
of fundamental rights is determined by the strict
observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that
matter here it suffices to remember that, to check whether a
restrictive measure of a fundamental right exceeds the judgment of
proportionality, it is necessary to verify if it meets the three
following requirements or conditions: if the measure is susceptible to
achieve the proposed objective (judgment of suitability); Yes, besides,
is necessary, in the sense that there is no other measure
moderate for the achievement of such purpose with equal effectiveness
(judgment of necessity); and, finally, if it is weighted or
balanced, because it derives more benefits or advantages for
the general interest that harms other goods or values in
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

25

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

conflict (judgment of proportionality in the strict sense; SSTC
66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of 28 of
March [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8 and 9; 270/1996, dated 16
December [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17
[RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186]
, F. 6).”

As already indicated, the ECHR considers that the fundamental right
to the protection of personal data is part of the field of
application of the right to respect for private and family life, enshrined in
Article 8 of the ECHR. Section 2 of said precept establishes that “no
There may be interference by the public authority in the exercise of this right.
but insofar as this interference is provided for by law and constitutes a
extent that, in a democratic society, is necessary for the security
security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the defense of the
order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or
of morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others”.

Regarding the processing of personal data for a purpose
different, it must be based on the principle of limitation of the purpose contained in the
article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, according to which personal data will be “collected
for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further
in a manner incompatible with said purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes
in the public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or
statistics will not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes”.

In relation to the treatment for different purposes, article 6, in its

section 4 states that:

“When the treatment for another purpose other than that for which it is
collected the personal data is not based on the consent of the
interested party or in the Law of the Union or of the Member States that
constitutes a necessary and proportional measure in a society
democracy to safeguard the objectives indicated in article 23,
section 1, the data controller, in order to determine whether the
processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which it was
initially collected the personal data, will take into account, among
other things:
a) any relationship between the purposes for which they were collected
the personal data and the purposes of the intended further processing;
b) the context in which the personal data was collected, in
particular as regards the relationship between the data subjects and the
data controller;

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

26

Legal cabinet

c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when they are processed
special categories of personal data, in accordance with the
article 9, or personal data relating to convictions and offenses
criminal, in accordance with article 10;
d) the possible consequences for the interested parties of the treatment
further anticipated;
e) the existence of adequate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization”.

In accordance with these precepts, the purpose and legitimate activity of
who processes the data will limit the possibility of collecting and processing the data.
themselves, and must also be limited to the data provided or appropriate to
such purpose. It is not lawful to process data that exceeds what is
necessary for the fulfillment of the objective pursued.

At the same time, the data may only be used for the purposes
that justify this collection and, as we will see, of those who should have been
informed the affected, not being lawful use for other purposes.

And the treatment for different purposes without the consent of the
affected is exceptional, to the point that article 6.4 provides that it may
be established by the law of the Union or of the Member States, provided
that “constitutes a necessary and proportional measure in a society
democracy to safeguard the objectives indicated in article 23.1”:

a) State security;
b) defense;
c) public safety;
d) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection
against threats to public security and their prevention;

e) other important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of
a Member State, in particular a significant economic or financial interest
of the Union or of a Member State, including in the tax,
budgetary and monetary, public health and social security;

f) the protection of judicial independence and procedures

judicial;

g) the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of

breaches of ethical standards in regulated professions;

h) a related supervisory, inspection or regulatory function,
even occasionally, with the exercise of public authority in cases
referred to in letters a) to e) and g);

i) the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others;
j) the execution of civil suits”.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

27

Legal cabinet

Therefore, both by applying Article 9.2.g) and Article 9.2.g)
article 6.4, the proposed data processing requires a standard with a range
of law that enables it.

The ECHR of May 4, 2000 (Case Rotaru v. Romania),
echoing the aforementioned judgment of February 16, 2000, reiterated to his
time for many others (within the most recent one can be mentioned that of 4
December 2015 – Zakharov v. Russia-), recalls that "Both the
storage of such data and its use, together with the refusal to
granting the plaintiff the power to refute them, constitute an interference in
their right to respect for their private life guaranteed by article 8.1”. bliss
interference must be respectful of what is established in the aforementioned
article 8.1, recalling the ECHR of February 16, 2000 that "the words
"provided for by law" imply conditions that go beyond the existence of
a legal basis in domestic law and require that it be "accessible" and
"predictable"", which requires analyzing the "quality" of the limiting norm of
right.

This doctrine, collected by our Constitutional Court in the
aforementioned terms, implies that the Enabling Law must
be in force and fulfill the judgment of proportionality, not being enough the
mere formal adoption of the provision to “validate” or “legitimize” without further ado
Treatment of personal data.

v

On the other hand, it should also be taken into account the doctrine
jurisprudence contrary to massive transfers of personal data between
administrative bodies.

In this sense, the interpretation that the Court
Constitutional made of article 16.3 of the Law of Bases of Regime in its
Judgment 17/2013, of January 31, 2013, in which it determined the
constitutionality of it.

As it has been interpreted by the TC in said judgment (FJ 8), this
precept refers to the non-consensual transfer of data related to the
residence or domicile to other public administrations that so request
only in those cases in which, for the exercise of its powers,
be those relevant data. In short, this petition, which does not refer
specifically to the transfer of data from the register with regard to the data
of foreigners, its purpose is to be able to dispose of the data related to the
residence or domicile that appear in the municipal register, (...).
way, in accordance with the Organic Law on data protection, the purpose
that justified the collection of data by an Administration
does not prevent the subsequent destination of the data for its use in purposes
different from those that motivated its collection, respecting, in any case, the
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

28

Legal cabinet

principle of reserve of law to establish said change, (...) the Law of bases
of local regime in its condition, in addition, of regulatory norm of a file
how the municipal register can foresee transfers of data between
Public administrations.

(...) the data transferred must be strictly necessary for the
fulfillment of the functions assigned to the administrative bodies of
form that the request of those data that result
relevant, since it is necessary to distinguish between the analysis and monitoring of a
individualized situation relating to a specific case and the supply
generalized and indiscriminate of all the information contained in a record
personal. The precept has contemplated both extremes in such a way that
any transfer of data from the register must be based on the need
by the assignee Administration acting in the exercise of its
competences, to know, in each specific case, the data related to the domicile
of the affected person, extremes that must be adequately assessed
by the assignor in order to assess whether the data requested is really
necessary, pertinent and proportionate, taking into account the competence that
intends to exercise the assignee Administration (art. 4 in fine of Law 30/1992).
It is thus a rule in itself restricted to data relating to the
residence and domicile in each specific case, and to which they will result from
application, needless to say, the rest of the principles and provisions that
make up the content of the right recognized in the legislation on
Data Protection.

Likewise, the aforementioned ruling of the Constitutional Court 17/2013
analyzed, in its Ninth Legal Basis, a specific assumption of
access to the register data, electronically, by the General Directorate of
the Police, for the exclusive purpose of exercising the powers
established in the Organic Law of Rights and Freedoms of Foreigners
in Spain and its Social Integration, on control and permanence of foreigners
in Spain, and which is included in the seventh additional provision of the LBRL,
introduced by art. 3.5 of Organic Law 14/2003, of November 20, in
which indicates the following:

"Now then, said legal provision must be understood in accordance with
with the requirements of proportionality that our doctrine requires in the
limitation of a fundamental right such as the one concerned here,
regarding the protection of personal data. That means the
transfer of data that the access regulated by the precept supposes must
come surrounded by a series of specific guarantees, guarantees that,
completed by the administrative body to which the precept makes
reference, are obviously susceptible to control. Among them is
finds the need to expressly motivate and justify both the
specific attribution of the condition of user for telematic access
to the data of the register that the precept foresees, such as the specific
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

29

Legal cabinet

accesses in question, avoiding – as long as the required motivation
of such decisions facilitates their corresponding control through the
mechanisms provided for in the legal system, especially through
of the Contentious-Administrative jurisdictional control – that occurs
both a tortious use of said power and indiscriminate access or
massive. Limits to access content that also result from
certain provisions of ordinary legality, which must be
applied bearing in mind, in any case, the necessary unity of the
legal system, such as art. 16.3 LBRL, which we have already
examined or even other specific regulations of the Organic Law
of data protection, especially its art. 22.2. It follows that the
Access will only be possible, under the aforementioned conditions, when
the specific data in question is relevant and necessary in relation to
with the purpose that has justified the access, being guaranteed the
possibility of analyzing whether, in each specific case, the access was protected
in what is established in the Law because, otherwise, it will not be possible
its use. With such guarantees, access regulated in the provision
questioned turns out to be proportionate in relation to the purpose
pursued, since, while the resulting data can only be
used for the purpose established in the precept, must be carried out in
in a timely manner by whoever is expressly authorized to do so
and in relation to specific data whose need must also be
expressly justified and, therefore, subject to control, in the
terms that we have just exposed.

From what was transcribed above, and from the rest of the legal foundation
contained in said sentence, it turns out that the TC has determined that (i) it will have to
avoid indiscriminate and massive access to personal data (ii) the data in
question requested must be pertinent and necessary (iii) for the purpose
established in precept (iv) the request for access to the specific data
must be expressly motivated and justified, (v) so that
this enables its control by the transferor (vi) and avoids a tortious use of that
faculty with massive access. This means (vii) that it must be guaranteed
the possibility of analyzing whether in each specific case the access was protected in terms of
established by law (art. 16.3 LBRL).

In the same sense, the Court of Justice of the Union has ruled
Union, highlighting the existing limits to mass communications of
personal data even in the cases in which they were requested by the
competent authorities for the prevention, investigation, inquiry and
prosecution of crimes.

Indeed, the Court has had the opportunity to rule on the
in accordance with Union law, and in particular with articles 7 and
8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of a
derivative law of the Union, Directive 2006/24/EC, which allowed
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

30

Legal cabinet

the conservation by the operators of the traffic data generated by the
subscribers and users of electronic communications for their communication to
the competent authorities for the detection, prevention, investigation and
prosecution of serious crimes, considering that said measure violates
said precepts, for which it declares it invalid (judgment of April 8,
2014, Joined Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland and
others).

Subsequently, in his judgment of December 21, 2016 (Affairs
C-2013/15 and C-698/15, Tele2 Sverige AB and others) the Court
analyzed whether the national regulations transposing the aforementioned Directive
2006/24/CE could be considered in conformity with Union Law,
appreciating that there was no such conformity in a rule that provided for the
generalized and indiscriminate collection of data and does not subject access to
the same to the previous administrative and judicial control.

In relation to the first of the aforementioned questions, the section
94 of the judgment recalled that “according to article 52, section 1, of the
Charter, any limitation of the exercise of the rights and freedoms
recognized by it must be established by law and respect its content
essential”, adding section 96 that “respect for the principle of
proportionality is also deduced from the reiterated jurisprudence of the
Court of Justice according to which the protection of the fundamental right to
respect for private life at Union level requires that exceptions to the
protection of personal data and the limitations of that protection
exceed what is strictly necessary (judgments of December 16,
2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C-73/07, EU:C:2008:727,
paragraph 56; of November 9, 2010, Volker and Markus Schecke and Eifert,
C-92/09 and C-93/09, EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 77; Digital Rights, section 52, and
of October 6, 2015, Schrems, C-362/14, EU:C:2015:650, paragraph 92)”.

That said, in accordance with section 100, "the interference that
a regulation of this type in the fundamental rights recognized in the
Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter is of great magnitude and must be considered
especially serious." And section 103 adds that “although it is true that the
effectiveness of the fight against serious crime, especially against
organized crime and terrorism, may depend to a large extent on the
use of modern research techniques, this objective of general interest,
However fundamental it may be, it cannot by itself justify that a regulation
that establishes the generalized and undifferentiated conservation of all
traffic and location data should be considered necessary to the
effects of this fight (see, by analogy, with regard to Directive 2006/24, the
Digital Rights ruling, section 51).

It is thus concluded that "a national regulation such as the controversial one in the
therefore exceeds the limits of what is strictly necessary
and cannot be considered justified in a democratic society, as required
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

31

Legal cabinet

Article 15(1) of Directive 2002/58, in relation to articles
7, 8, 11 and 52, section 1, of the Charter (section 107), being however
in accordance with Union Law “a regulation that allows, on a
preventive, the selective conservation of traffic data and location to
effects of the fight against serious crime, provided that the conservation
of the data is limited to what is strictly necessary in relation to the
categories of data to be kept, the means of communication to which
refer, the affected persons and the established conservation period”
(section 108), for which the national standard "must establish, first of all,
place, clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of a
measure of conservation of data of this type and that establish some
minimum requirements so that the persons whose data have been
conserved have sufficient guarantees to protect from
effectively protect your personal data from the risks of abuse. Should
indicate, in particular, under what circumstances and according to what requirements
preventive measures may be taken to preserve the
data, guaranteeing that such measure is limited to what is strictly necessary
(see, by analogy, with respect to Directive 2006/24, the judgment Digital
Rights, section 54 and cited case law)” (section 109). paragraph 11
points out that the delimitation of the affected group “can be guaranteed through
a geographical criterion when the competent national authorities
consider, on the basis of objective elements, that there is a high risk
preparation or commission of such crimes in one or more areas
geographical”.

For its part, regarding the second of the issues mentioned; this
is, the one related to independent and prior judicial or administrative control, the
The Court states in section 116 that “in relation to respect for the principle
of proportionality, a national regulation that regulates the requirements with
under which communications service providers
electronic networks should grant competent national authorities access
to the conserved data must guarantee, in accordance with what is expressed in the
sections 95 and 96 of this judgment, that such access only occurs
within the limits of what is strictly necessary.

In the opinion of the Court, it will be “national law in which it must determine
the requirements under which service providers
electronic communications must grant such access. However, the
national legislation in question cannot be limited to requiring that access
responds to one of the objectives referred to in article 15, paragraph 1,
of Directive 2002/58, not even the fight against serious crime.
Indeed, such national regulations must also establish the requirements
material and procedural that regulate the access of the authorities
competent national authorities to the retained data (see, by analogy,
with respect to Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights ruling, paragraph 61)”
(paragraph 118).

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

32

Legal cabinet

Section 120 concludes that “In order to guarantee in practice the full
compliance with these requirements, it is essential that the access of the authorities
competent nationals to the retained data is subject, in principle,
except in duly justified cases of urgency, to a prior control of a
jurisdictional body or an independent administrative entity, and that the
decision of this jurisdictional body or of this entity occurs as a result of
a reasoned request from those authorities, submitted, in particular, in the
framework of prevention procedures, discovery or criminal actions
(see, by analogy, with respect to Directive 2006/24, the judgment Digital
Rights, section 62; see also, by analogy, in connection with the
Article 8 of the ECHR, ECHR, January 12, 2016, Szabó and Vissy v. Hungary,
CE:ECHR:2016:0112JUD003713814, §§ 77 and 80)”.

In this way, as has been repeatedly pointed out by this
Agency, the doctrine just revealed requires that the
mass processing of data for the prosecution of crime is delimited
clearly from a triple point of view: on the one hand, data is minimized
object of treatment; on the other, limit the cases in which access to
data can be carried, specifying for example the nature of the crimes
whose seriousness justifies such access; and lastly, that there is a control, that in
the case of Spain should be judicial, prior to effective access to
information.

SAW

Once the regulations and jurisprudence applicable to the
resolution of this consultation, in order to assess the adequacy to the
personal data protection regulations of the information request
carried out by the Office for the Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Illes
The Balearic Islands should highlight the following:

In the first place, that the aforementioned Office has been created, as indicated
in its Statement of Motives, as a measure to improve quality
democracy and a tool to combat fraud and corruption, and
“Aims to prevent and investigate possible cases of use or destination
fraudulent use of public funds or any illicit use derived
of conduct that entails a conflict of interest or the particular use of
information derived from the functions of the personnel at the service of the
public sector". Likewise, it adds that “The creation of this office fulfills the
provided for in article 6 of the United Nations Convention against
corruption, approved in New York on October 31, 2003, for the fact
that guarantees the existence of a specialized and independent body
responsible for preventing corruption.

The aforementioned United Nations Convention against Corruption,
ratified on June 9, 2006 and in force for Spain since July 19,
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

33

Legal cabinet

2006, highlights in its Preamble the concern for "the seriousness of the
problems and threats posed by corruption to the stability and
security of societies by undermining the institutions and values of the
democracy, ethics and justice and by compromising sustainable development and
rule of law".

Likewise, the fight against corruption is included in other
European standards, such as the Convention on combating acts of
corruption involving Community officials
European Union or of the Member States of the European Union, done in Brussels
on May 26, 1997, or in other more recent ones such as the latest Directives
on public procurement, incorporated into our legal system by the
Law 9/2017, of November 8, on Public Sector Contracts, which establishes
Transpose to the Spanish legal system the Directives of the Parliament
European and Council 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU, of February 26, 2014.

Therefore, the fight against corruption can be considered,

effects of article 9.2.g) of the RGPD, as an essential public interest.

On the other hand, based on the duty to provide information that imposes
Article 10 of Law 16/2016, of December 9, creating the Office of
Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands, it provides
a series of guarantees, highlighting the duty of secrecy contained in the article
7.3: “The people who carry out their activity in the Office of Prevention and
Fight against Corruption are obliged to keep secret everything that
know by reason of their function in the legally established terms,
duty that lasts after his cessation in the exercise of the position. Failure to
this duty of secrecy gives rise to the responsibility that, in each case,
appropriate”. Likewise, another guarantee would be those provided for in the article itself.
10.1, when it provides that "access to information must be justified, it is
It must motivate the relationship with the investigated activity and it must be left
proof of this in the file”.

However, while the above circumstances could lead to
consider admissible, in a specific and duly justified case, the access
to certain health data, in the present case, said request is
considered excessive and contrary to data protection regulations
personal, for the following reasons:

First of all, nothing is indicated in the information request
regarding the specific purpose for which the information is claimed, although
attending to it, it seems that it is referred to verifying compliance with the
vaccination protocols for people who have received the vaccine.
And article 9.2.g) of the RGPD requires that the treatment be necessary, and it is not
has justified in the request the need to access the data
personal information of persons vaccinated in connection with the research
is carrying out, which would require carrying out the triple judgment of suitability,
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

3. 4

Legal cabinet

necessity and proportionality, assessing whether data communication
related to the health of certain persons is necessary for the
compliance with the purpose of controlling the administrative action pursued, and
if said purpose cannot be achieved by other means that do not require the
communication of said data, such as, for example, the communication
of the aggregated information (that is, anonymized, in a way that does not allow the
identification of natural persons) referring to the different vaccination groups
foreseen in the vaccination protocols or not belonging to any of the
them, indicating the total number of people who would be in each
of those assumptions.

On the other hand, because said requirement supposes a massive treatment
of personal data that, as indicated in the query, would affect, at least,
108,500 people, which is contrary to the principle of data minimization and
the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the Union
aforementioned European.

Madrid, May 04, 2021

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

35

