Second additional opinion of the National Commission for the
data protection relating to the draft law n° 7425 on weapons and
ammunition and bearing: 10 transposition of directive (EU) 2021/555 of
European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the control of
the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning transport and trade
explosive materials.

Deliberation n° 29/AV24/2021 of October 1, 2021

In accordance with article 57, paragraph (1), letter c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter the "GDPR"), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission)) or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

On July 8, 2019, the CNPD notified draft law no. 7425 on: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials
explosives (hereinafter the “draft law”)1.

On February 4, 2021, the National Commission issued its additional opinion on the
government amendments adopted by the Justice Committee at its meeting of
May 27, 20202.

On July 13, 2021, the Justice Committee adopted a series of parliamentary amendments
relating to the bill (hereinafter the “amendments”).

Insofar as the amendments relate to articles of the bill that have been commented on
by the CNPD and that the latter has not been asked for an opinion, it takes the matter itself in order to inform
of his comments below.

' Deliberation n°42/2019 of July 8, 2019
2 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

1/7

1. Amendment n°22

Amendment No. 22 modifies paragraph (1) of Article 14 of the bill, in that it replaces
the concept of “honourability” by the concept of “dangerousness”, and inserts a new paragraph in paragraph
(3) of section 14.

The authors of the amendments also provide, in their comments, details as to
to certain questions raised by the Council of State in its additional opinion of 19
December 2020.

A. On the replacement of the concept of “honourability” by the concept of

"dangerousness"

Article 14 paragraph (1) of the draft law has been amended as follows: "Authorizations, permits
and approvals provided for by this law are issued by the Minister only to persons who,_
taking into account their behavior, mental state and criminal record
or police, do not give rise to fear that they are likely to present a danger to
themselves or for others, for public order or for public security. A
conviction for a violent intentional offense is considered a
indication of such a danger, have-the-necessary-rhonorality, LIne-persenne-is

possession
law
d2weapons-and-ammunition-in-seen-ohef-can-son-establish-a-danger-to-herselffor

to fear

that

is

if he

the

at

mental-state-and-its-antecedents,”

The amended provisions were made "in accordance with the observations of the Council of State and
for the reasons given by the High Corporation”.

The Council of State had, in particular, considered in its additional opinion of December 19, 2020
that the criterion of good repute is "difficult to transpose to the verification of the aptitude of a
person to possess or handle a weapon”.

The National Commission agreed with the opinion of the aforementioned Conseil d'Etat "only insofar as it
is irrelevant to use the notion of "good repute" to assess whether an individual has
the aptitude required to possess or handle a weapon”3.

Insofar as the term "honesty" has been replaced by the term "dangerousness" in Article
19 (approval of employees and collaborators of gunsmiths) and in article 24 of the bill (granting
authorizations to individuals), it would like to reiterate the following observations, made in
its opinion of February 4, 2021, “(nevertheless, the reference to the notion of “good repute” could
appear relevant with regard to the approvals that would be issued by the Minister to

3 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, point I, 1, A, b, ii

CNPD

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

2/7

gunsmiths or brokers, the said approvals being a prerequisite for access to such professions. At this
title, it is specified that in France the notion of "good repute" is used for any person
wishing to "carry out the activity which consists, on a principal or ancillary basis, either in the manufacture,
trade, exchange, rental, hire-purchase, loan, modification, repair or
transformation, either in the negotiation or organization of operations with a view to the purchase, sale,
the supply or transfer of arms, ammunition or their components”. However, this
concept is not included for people wishing to acquire or possess a weapon. In effect,
Article L.312-3-1 of the French Internal Security Code provides that "No authority
administrative authority may prohibit the acquisition and possession of arms, ammunition and their components
of categories A, B and C to persons whose behavior raises fears of the use
dangerous to themselves or to others. The National Commission will come back in more detail
on the reference made to the notion of good repute in Luxembourg legislation in its opinion
on draft law no. 7691, which aims to harmonize and specify the various procedures for
"good repute checks" currently provided for in several pieces of legislation. »4.

B. On the proposal made by the Council of State in its additional opinion
cited above, according to which it proposes the mechanism of a detailed opinion issued by
the State prosecutor and forwarded to the Minister

It emerges from the commentary to amendment no. 22 that the Council of State's proposal for a
“mechanism of a detailed opinion” was not followed by the authors of the amendments.

The latter propose, in fact, to maintain the approach of supplying information to the
Minister of Justice "even if it means providing him with all the required and necessary conditions, rather
than to adopt the approach of an opinion to be provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office", without, however, specifying what
should be understood by "required and necessary conditions".

They expose their questions and the reasons at the origin of such a position. These latter argue
as well as “this way of doing things would hardly be likely to solve the problems that arise.
The Public Prosecutor's Office, legitimately, would issue this opinion on the basis of the principles which govern the opportunity
prosecution, i.e. considerations drawn from the scope and seriousness of the disorder at
public order, compensation for the victim, etc. This is, moreover, what he had done for a
certain period in terms of guarding. However, the considerations to be taken into account in
matters of granting or refusing authorizations in the field of weapons are markedly different and
do not pursue the same objective. ".

In addition, they believe that "this approach raises many other questions: In the case of an opinion
positive on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Office, would the latter then be exempted from any provision
of information to the minister, so that the latter could not even follow the logic and the
reasoning on which the positive opinion would be based? And in the case of a negative opinion, what
would be the information that the Public Prosecutor's Office should then provide to the Minister? In fact, you don't have to

4 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 26, l, 6

[ NOC1

,
,,.
...,....

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

3/7

forget that the applicant for obtaining a firearms license has the right, in the event of a refusal to
his request, to seize the administrative jurisdictions for the cancellation of the refusal. How
could the administrative courts then assess whether the minister's refusal is justified
or not, if the Minister cannot provide the administrative courts with the information and facts
being the basis of his decision? Added to this is that, just taking into account the Service
Weapons & Guarding and without considering all the laws in force in Luxembourg which
require the assessment of repute or dangerousness before granting an authorization
administrative, the Public Prosecutor's Office would probably be overwhelmed with requests for opinions, which
would in fact prevent him from devoting himself to his principal activity which is the prosecution of criminal offenses
criminal. Bill no. 7691, which still only concerns laws falling within the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Justice, gives an idea of the very large number of opinions whose
Public Prosecutor's Office would then be seized, if we opted for this approach, in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office in all
materials. ".

However, on this point, the CNPD had questioned, in its additional opinion of February 4, 2021, whether
such an administrative inquiry would not have the consequence of generating "a duplication
information concerning a person's criminal record in the hands of
different authorities. Indeed, the National Commission understands that some of the data
contained in the files kept by the Grand-Ducal Police, by the Public Prosecutor or the SRE
will again appear in a file held by the Minister”5.

Thus, it would like to reiterate its following considerations "[in] order to avoid duplication of such
data and the keeping of a sort of new "double register" by the Minister for persons
affected by the draft law, the CNPD believes that a less intrusive method of achieving
the same purpose should be preferred to the system currently provided for by the authors of the bill.
It therefore agrees with the proposal made by the Council of State in its additional opinion of the
December 19, 2016 according to which it proposes the mechanism of a detailed opinion issued by the
state prosecutor and forwarded to the minister. This mechanism would replace the communication to the
Minister of Intelligence by the Grand-Ducal Police, the Public Ministry and the SRE. Such
mechanism would avoid duplication of background data
of an applicant while allowing the Minister to obtain the necessary information
and relevant, in the form of an opinion, in order to enable him to assess the "good repute" of a
applicant. Such a mechanism still has the advantage that the administrative inquiry would be
entrusted to a repressive authority, the Public Ministry, and not to an administration. In effect,
such an authority would be more appropriate to conduct such an investigation given the nature of the
processed data. »6.

Furthermore, the National Commission also reiterates its observations relating to the model
French and Belgian who have both adopted a similar approach'.

5 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, l, 1, A, b, ii
6 ibidem
Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, l, 1, A, b, iii

CNPD1

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

4/7

C. On the insertion of a new paragraph 2 in paragraph 3 of article 14 of the draft

law

It emerges from the commentary to amendment no. 22 that "it is proposed to add yet another
restriction to the facts that can be communicated to the Minister by inserting a new paragraph 2
in paragraph 3, aimed at excluding facts which, although corresponding to points 1° to 3° of
the first paragraph of paragraph 3, have been the subject of an acquittal, a rehabilitation or a
prescription. This amendment aims to respond to a question from the Council of State. The hypothesis
of a dismissal has not been taken up here, whereas these facts can be the subject of a resumption of
information on new charges, in accordance with articles 135 to 136 of the Code of Procedure
criminal, so that these facts must also be able to be taken into account within the framework of the
administrative procedures concerning the authorizations provided for by this draft law. ".

The authors of the amendments are to be commended for having made such clarifications.

However, in the absence of the categories of data that would be communicated to the Minister, the
CNPD is unable to assess whether the principle of data minimization would be respected
in this case.

On this point, it generally refers to its developments relating to the principle of
minimization of the data formulated in its additional opinion of February 4, 20218.

D. On the exchange of information between the Service Armes & Gardiennage and the Service

state intelligence

It should be noted that paragraph (6) of article 14 of the bill concerning the exchange
information between the Armes & Gardiennage Service and the State Intelligence Service
remains unchanged.

The authors of the amendments do not provide any further details on this subject in their
commentary to amendment no. 22 but state the reasons why this exchange
information is needed.

Without prejudging the need for such an exchange of information, the National Commission regrets
however that its considerations formulated in its opinion of February 4, 2021 were not
taken into account and would therefore like to reiterate them9.

Deliberation no. 2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, l, 1, F.
9 Deliberation no. 2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, l, 1, F, b

CNPLI

,OX.E3

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

5/7

E. Final remarks

Generally speaking, it is to be regretted that all the questions raised in
the additional opinion of 4 February 2021 from the CNPD have not been taken into consideration.

Thus, in addition to the reiterations formulated above, it regrets that the current text does not allow
the persons concerned to "understand the extent and scope of the administrative investigation,
would it not be preferable to expressly state in the new article 14 that the data
collected during the administrative investigation come from the files kept by the Grand-Police
ducale, the Public Ministry or the SRE? »'°.

Just as "like the provisions provided for in Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) of the law of
22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information in
police matters'', should it not be provided in the bill under opinion that the data
forwarded to the Minister, for the purposes of an administrative inquiry, may only be used for the
purpose for which they were transmitted and supervise the transmission, if necessary, by the
minister to another administration/third party? »12 .

In addition, and as the CNPD noted in its aforementioned opinion, with regard to the processing
personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses or
related security measures, safeguards should be included “in the draft law
whereas in the current state of the device under opinion, the persons concerned will see a duplication
their data relating to criminal convictions or offenses at the hands of
several authorities. The collection of such data during the administrative inquiry could lead
ä the keeping of a sort of new “double register” by the Minister. This would dispose, if
where appropriate, at the end of the investigation, copies of police reports, extracts from official reports,
judgements, or “necessary information” provided by the SRE”13.

The same applies to the processing of special categories of data for
which, the CNPD considers, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph (2), of the GDPR, that the project
of law should provide for “appropriate and specific measures for the safeguard of the rights
fundamental principles and interests of the data subject”. It is referred to the considerations
raised in its opinion of 4 February 202114.

Finally, the National Commission still regrets that no details have been provided, either in
regarding the retention period of data obtained as part of the verification of

H' Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 10, l, 1, B
11 Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) provides that: “(2) The data and information transmitted may not be used by
the administration only for the purpose for which they were transmitted. They are erased as soon as their retention is no longer
necessary with regard to the purpose for which they were transmitted. (3) Further transmission of data and information
by the administration of the State to a third person requires the prior written consent of the person referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1
er, having transmitted the data and information concerned. If so, article 6, paragraph 3, is applicable”.
12 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 11, l, 1, C
13 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 12, l, 1, D
14 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 12, l, 1, E

CNPII

[

DeSIONedn

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

6/7

good repute16, nor with regard to the supervisory authority competent to control and monitor
compliance with the legal provisions provided for in article 14 of the bill16. She reiterates, therefore,
all of its observations on this subject.

For the rest, the CNPD refers to its opinions of July 8, 2019 and February 4, 2021 mentioned above.

Thus decided in Belvaux on October 1, 2021.

The National Data Protection Commission

we

K-)

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang

Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

Alain Hermann
Commissioner

" Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, l, 3
16 Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, l, 5

NOC1

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to draft law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and relating to: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials

explosive.

7/7

