1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00282/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 02/27/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against ADOPTAGAT with NIF G66357518 (hereinafter, the claimed). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are, in short, the following: that the website
adoptagatigualada.wixsite.com, omits the data of its owner/s, as well as its policy of
privacy, making it impossible to identify the data controller;
In addition, it requires filling out an adoption form where a large amount of information is requested or collected.
amount of personal data, without the legitimacy being made explicit at any time.
for this, nor the use that will be given to the data; In addition, personal data is collected from
through a contact form.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced and the documents provided by
the claimant of which this Agency has become aware, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection proceeded to carry out actions for the
clarification of the facts in question.

On 03/28/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and decision adopted in this regard, although it is true that there is no evidence that it was notified.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and its
transfer to the claimed entity.

The respondent has not responded to any of the requirements made by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

THIRD: On 07/04/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 02/27/2019 you have entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant in which he states that the web page
adoptagatigualada.wixsite.com, completely omits the data of its owner, as well as
its privacy policy, making it impossible to identify the person responsible for the
treatment. In addition, it requires filling out an "adoption form", where it collects great
amount of personal data, without the legitimacy being made explicit at any time.
for it nor the use that will be given to the data and the same happens with the form of
Contact.

 Screen impressions of the website are provided
SECOND:
adoptagatigualada.wixsite.com, where there is a link to access the application form
contact for personal data collection and adoption form. not identified
to the person in charge, nor is there a privacy policy and there is no more contact information than
multiple phone numbers.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.
Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the regulatory norms
of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
case of not doing
 
     allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
interested parties” (the underlined corresponds to the AEPD).

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

ADOPTAGAT is charged with the violation of article 13 of the RGPD that

establishes:

III

“Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is

obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment; 4.5.2016 L 119/40 Official Journal of the European Union
IT IS
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the
legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,
reference to adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the
right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is
obliged to provide personal data and is informed of the possible
consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
anticipated consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

In the present case, the respondent has violated the right to information that
must be provided to the interested party when their data is obtained or intended to be obtained
personal, materialized in the absence of adaptation of the privacy policy of
the website adoptagatigualada.wixsite.com to the current regulations regarding
protection of personal data, specifically there is no information in
the meaning indicated in article 13 of the RGPD and, in addition, data is collected
through an adoption form and questionnaires without determining
the treatment, destination and purpose that will be given to them.

IV

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD considers that the infringement of “the rights of
those interested in accordance with articles 12 to 22”, is punishable, in accordance with the
 “with fines
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation,
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes: "Infringements

considered very serious:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.

(…)”

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.
     

In the case that concerns us, the present sanctioning procedure came from
motivated by the presumption that the respondent did not have adapted the information
offered on its website to the provisions of the RGPD and, in addition, collecting data
of the users through the completion of both the form of
adoption
questionnaires

What

the

of

 

 

 

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

(https://secure.jotformeu.com/Ireneadoptagat/voluntaris
Y
http://form.jotformeu.com/form/50854252555356), which was linked from the
website contact section.

In accordance with such evidence, said conduct constitutes

infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

Now, as indicated above, this infraction can be
sanctioned with a warning. By collecting basic data from interested parties through
of the adoption form and the indicated questionnaires to which it is linked from the
website of the entity and consider that the administrative fine that could fall with
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a burden
disproportionate for the claimed party, in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the RGPD
warning proceeds.

Also, for the purposes provided in article 58.2. d) of the RGPD is ordered to
responsible for the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provided in article 13 of the RGPD, especially adapting the information that has
to be offered to users to the requirements contemplated in the aforementioned article, as well
such as the provision of means of proof accrediting compliance with the
indicated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

It should be noted that the respondent has not responded to the request for

information formulated by the Inspection Service.

v

At this point, it is necessary to inform that not meeting the requirements
of the Agency may constitute a very serious infringement in accordance with the
indicated in article 72 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

ñ) Failure to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the

competent data protection authority.

(…)”

At the same time, notification of the start agreement and after the term granted

to formulate allegations, he has not submitted any brief.

It is necessary to point out that if the claimed incident is not corrected or
reiterate the behavior revealed in the claim and that is the cause of the
this procedure, as well as not immediately informing this AEPD of the
measures adopted could proceed to the exercise of possible actions before the
responsible for the treatment in order to apply effectively the measures
appropriate to guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of the data of
personal character and the right to privacy of individuals.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ADOPTAGAT, with NIF G66357518, for an infraction of the
aarticle 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
Warning in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ADOPTAGAT, with NIF G66357518,
and require it to inform the AEPD of the measures adopted to prevent
a new infringement of article 13 of the RGPD may occur in the future,
seeking to effectively adopt measures so that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of the aforementioned article, adapting the information
that must be offered to users according to the requirements contemplated therein, as well as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

such as the provision of means of proof accrediting compliance with the
required.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

