 

Case number: NAIH- 1647-6/2022.
 
History case number: NAIH-5002/2021.
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject: Decision

H A T A R O Z A T

 
Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) with [...]
(headquarters: [...]; company registration number: [...]; tax number: [...]; hereinafter: Company) vis-à-vis ex officio
started in an official data protection procedure, in which the Authority [...] concerned (hereinafter:
Complainant) has secured customer legal status, the Authority makes the following decisions:
 

I. The Authority determines that the Company has violated the general data protection regulation (a

hereinafter: GDPR) point f) of Article 5 paragraph (1).

II. The Authority finds that the Company has violated Article 6 (1) of the GDPR.
III. The Authority finds that the Company has violated Article 9 (1) of the GDPR.
ARC. The Authority finds that the Company has violated Article 15 (1) of the GDPR.
V. The Authority is the I-IV. Article 58 (2) b) GDPR

condemns the Company based on point

 
There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but the 30th from the date of notification
within days, it can be challenged in an administrative lawsuit with a letter of claim addressed to the Metropolitan Court. THE
claim letter must be submitted electronically to the Authority1, which forwards it along with the case documents to the
to the court. For those who do not benefit from the full personal tax exemption, the administrative court fee
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record the levy. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.
 

I N D O C O L A S

 
I. Procedure of the procedure
 
On July 8, 2019, the Complainant's legal representative filed a report with the Polish Data Protection Authority
to an authority in which your personal data, including personal health data, is provided by the Company
objected to its illegal transmission.
 
According to the Complainant's point of view, the purpose-bound data management was violated during the transmission of his personal data
and the principle of data saving. He requested that the acting authority oblige the Company illegally
to delete processed and forwarded personal data, or to notify the recipients with whom
or with which you disclosed personal data. The Complainant also requested that the Company
obligation to collect personal data for the purpose of handling complaints exclusively for this purpose
handle it.
 
On December 3, 2019, the Polish data protection authority, according to Article 56 of the GDPR, the main authority and
initiated a procedure to determine the relevant authorities. During this, on February 3, 2020
it was established that the Authority is the main authority in the case, since within the Company's organization the
decisions regarding the purposes and means of personal data management are made in Hungary
yes.
 

1 The NAIH_K01 form is used to initiate the administrative lawsuit: NAIH_K01 form (16.09.2019) The form
it can be filled out using the general form filling program (ÁNYK program).

 

 

 

1

In the case, on March 10, 2020, Article 57 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR)
paragraph f) and on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information
CXII of 2011 Act (hereinafter: Infotv.) an investigation was initiated based on point a) of § 38, paragraph (3).
 
The Authority invited him to make a statement on March 10, 2020 in order to clarify the contents of the notification
up the Company. The Company received the Authority's request on March 16, 2020, March 24, 2020
and I applied to the Authority for a deadline extension. The Company's statement 2020.
arrived at the Authority on April 21.
 
The Polish data protection authority within the framework of the voluntary mutual assistance procedure (A61 VMA [...])
On June 6, 2020, he informed the Authority that the Complainant, in terms of conducting the procedure
submitted relevant documents to him and sent a copy of these documents to
To authority.
 
On June 22, 2020, the Authority launched the voluntary mutual assistance procedure pursuant to Article 61 of the GDPR
initiated (A61 VMA [...]) with the Polish data protection authority, as it is available
on the basis of documents, it was necessary to clarify additional questions. The Polish Data Protection Authority
On September 24, 2020, he complied with the Authority's request (A61 VMA [...]).
 
Authority dated 18 May 2021, NAIH-5002-1/2021. notified the Company in order no.
that the investigation procedure in the case was closed, and that Infotv. Data protection based on § 60, paragraph (3).
initiated an official procedure, the subject of which was the contents of the Complainant's report. On this
in its ruling, the Authority invited the Company to make a statement in order to clarify the facts.
 
The Company's statement was received on June 6, 2021 in response to the fact-finding order of the Authority
through his authorized legal representative.
 
The Authority NAIH-5002-3/2021. No., dated August 11, 2021, to the Complainant
provided customer legal status, the order in this regard is voluntary mutual according to Article 61 of the GDPR
informed the Complainant in the framework of the assistance procedure, with the cooperation of the Polish authorities.
 
II. The facts
 
The Complainant submitted that on April 6, 2019, he flew on one of the Company's flights, however, the
your luggage has not arrived at your destination. In this regard, the Complainant is the Company for this purpose
complained to the Company on its online interface on April 23, 2019, which received the [...] number (the
hereinafter: complaint). The Complainant presented the damages incurred in connection with the disappearance of his luggage,
in the framework of which he explained what kind of illness he suffers from and that he is receiving medical treatment for this illness
takes prescription medications. He also mentioned that his checked luggage had the
his medicine, which he was unable to take for four days, as a result of which certain symptoms returned, which
because of this, you must also go for an unplanned control examination.
 
Regarding the Complainant's complaint dated April 23, 2019, the Company related to the handling of the complaint
information, the list of documents required for this on April 25, 2019 at 12:59 p.m. [...] e-
e-mail address, however, the customer service employee sent this reply letter, not the Complainant's e-mail
address, but sent it to the e-mail address [x], which is the e-mail address with which the account was registered
the Complainant's plane ticket was purchased through As a precursor to the information, the letter itself is a
also contained a complaint, as a result of which the content of the complaint was forwarded to the e-mail address [x].
for a third party user.
 
According to the Complainant's statement, the reservation was made by a company named [...] (hereinafter: [Y]).
for him through a travel agency that the Complainant could not name.
 

 

2

According to the Company's information and the copy of the correspondence submitted in support of this, a
flight ticket was booked with the user account registered with the e-mail address [x], which is the [...] reservation (PNR)
got a number. This reservation included a total of thirty passengers including the Complainant.
 
According to the Company's records, the user account number [...] registered with the e-mail address [x] is not one
was created as a business account belonging to a travel agency, but as an account of a natural person
through normal registration. The owner of the account is [...] (address: [...]).
 
During the procedure, the Company found out that the e-mail address [x] is available on the Facebook page under [...]
according to published public information, it is linked to the Polish [...] - website: [...] - travel agency.
 
According to the Company's practice, when any passenger in a given PNR number makes a complaint,
case links it to the reservation in the [...] case management system. This is necessary because it is
the customer service can investigate the merits of a travel-related complaint and, if necessary
be able to arrange for a refund.
 
If a complaint is received for a reservation, the customer service employee must check,
whether the passenger making the complaint is on the given reservation and, if so, how to handle the complaint
must be conducted directly with the complainant.
 
In the specific case, the administrator inadvertently sent the e-mail to the e-mail address of the customer making the reservation
A response message intended for the complainant on April 25, 2019, which is further related to the complaint
in addition to tasks, it also contained the Complainant's original complaint. 2019 by the same employee.
on April 29, he also sent a reminder letter to the e-mail address [x] addressed to the Complainant, in which
reminded that the contents of the previous letter are necessary for the further management of the complaint case
to his answer, and in the absence of an answer, closes the complaint case within 11 days.
 
The first letter sent by the administrator to the e-mail address [x] together with the complaint - presumably - the trip
was forwarded by the travel agency entrusted with its organization to [...] ([...]), who forwarded it to [...]-
to ([...]), who are employees of [Y] and the Complainant's colleagues. The entire correspondence to the Complainant
finally [...] forwarded it to the [...] e-mail address. The Complainant forwarded this entire correspondence to the Company
on April 29, 2019 and requested information on the legal basis on which the Company forwarded the
personal data, including health data, to third parties. The Complainant on this
he repeated his request on May 1, 2019. In his letter dated May 7, 2019, he informed the
Company, that in the absence of a response from the Company, it will contact the Polish data protection authority.
 
On May 14, 2019, the Company's customer service employee erroneously informed the Complainant that
that since you were on a group trip, the travel agency booking the flight ticket has the right to do so
to participate in procedures related to road-related complaints, at the same time the Complainant may request,
so that the communication is sent directly to you.
 
According to the Company's point of view, the customer service employee
[...]
points [...] of its business rules (hereinafter: Business Rules), which are the person making the reservation
have their rights and obligations. Neither the Terms of Business nor the Company are travel related
T&C for offices does not contain provisions that the person making the reservation is
would be entitled to rights in a passenger-initiated complaint procedure.
 
The customer service representative does not refer to the customer service manual during complaint handling
acted appropriately. According to point [...] of the customer service manual from the Complainant on April 29, 2019
incoming request, in which you inquired about the legal basis of data transfer, other data protection
should have been treated as a case and forwarded to the data protection officer.
 
as a result of an internal investigation, the Company found that
Concerning the issue
a data protection incident occurred due to incorrect data transmission by a customer service employee, which

misinterpreted the

 

3

Reported to the Authority on April 22, 2020, which is NAIH/2020/3601. received a case number. The Authority a
33-34 GDPR. compliance with its articles in this, NAIH/2020/3601. in procedure no., official
examined as part of an inspection. During this, NAIH-1248/2022. stated in document no. that a
33-34 GDPR. to conduct official proceedings in connection with compliance with the obligations contained in Article
did not reveal any causative circumstances, so the case does not require further action in this matter.
 
On April 23, 2020, the Company's data protection officer informed the complainant that in detail
investigated your complaint regarding the transmission of your personal data to third parties,
during which he determined that a data protection incident had occurred concerning his personal data,
which he notified to the Authority as stated above. The Company's data protection officer also says so
informed the Complainant that the customer service employee had wrongly informed him that a
the person making the reservation would have any rights during individual complaint handling.
 
Simultaneously with the information letter sent to the Complainant, the Company contacted the recipient -
[...] [x] - and requested that you immediately delete the personal data sent to you in error, or
requested that the persons to whom he forwarded the incident be notified of the incident
An e-mail containing the complainant's personal data and ask them to delete it. The Company requested it
and that the recipient confirms that he has deleted the personal data, however, by June 24, 2020
he did not receive any response from the addressee, nor did he subsequently inform the Authority that he had received it
would have received any feedback from the addressee.
 
In the Company's statement, the European referred to the weight and legal judgment of the case
The Data Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board) put it out for public consultation, in the meantime 2021.
adopted on December 14 01/2021. (Examples regarding Data Breach
Notification), and within this to examples 6.2-6.4, especially 6.3. for example. On this
for example, the confidentiality of healthcare data was damaged in the case of two stakeholders due to a wrongly addressed e-mail.
According to the Board's point of view, although the confidentiality of health data is violated, it has a low
probability that it could be used to the disadvantage of the affected parties - "Even if the information that
someone who is lactose intolerant is health data, the risk that this data will be used in a detrimental way
should be considered relatively law.” – and register the incident accordingly
take, however, due to the low risk, neither the supervisory authority nor the data subject is obliged
to notify about this.
 
In summary, according to the Company's point of view, due to an error caused by administrative negligence, the
the confidentiality of data on the complainant's medical condition by not mistakenly a
It was sent by the Company to the Complainant, but to the e-mail address [x] of the person handling the reservation
intended letter, but this did not entail any actual risk to the rights and freedoms of the Complainant.
After noticing the incident, the Company immediately took measures to ensure that it
sent an invitation to the recipient affected by the incident to delete the erroneously transmitted personal data,
and called on him to take measures to delete the data also in relation to third parties,
to whom you may have forwarded personal data related to the incident.
 
Therefore, taking into account the referenced guidelines of the Board, the weight of the case, the nature of the data management, it
the circumstances of the incident, the people involved, the nature of the data handled and that confidentiality
due to his injury, the present case did not cause an actual disadvantage to the rights of the concerned Complainant and
regarding his freedoms, according to the Company's point of view, the application of an adverse legal consequence is not
justified.
 
III. Findings of the Authority
 
III.1. Forwarding the Complainant's complaint to a third party
 
According to Article 4, Clause 12 of the GDPR, a data protection incident is a breach of security that a
accidental or illegal destruction of transmitted, stored or otherwise handled personal data,

 

4

loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access to the data
results in Different types of data protection incidents resulting from the definition
we distinguish, one of them is the confidentiality breach, which is personal data
unauthorized or accidental disclosure or unauthorized or accidental access to such data
results in In the case that is the subject of the complaint, such a data protection incident involving a breach of confidentiality occurred,
since, due to the carelessness of its employee, the Company unauthorizedly communicated the
The applicant's personal data was sent to the e-mail address [x] with [...], who made the flight ticket reservation, on 2019.
with his letter of April 25, in violation of Article 5 (1) point f) of the GDPR.
 
According to Article 4, point 2 of the GDPR, the transmission and communication of personal data is also data processing
qualifies, so it can only be legal if it has the conditions according to Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
legal basis. If the data management also affects special categories of personal data - in this case
health data: what kind of disease you suffer from, the disease is available with a doctor's prescription
he is taking medication, his condition has worsened due to the failure to take the medication, as a result of which
must go for a review - then the data controller must have Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
according to the legal basis, and the data management must comply with Article 9 (2) of the GDPR
included in a case.
 
The complaint containing the Complainant's health data was forwarded due to an administrative error, that is
there was no pre-planned data management. Due to the nature of data management, it was not
you can name a legal basis that would have made this data transfer legal, your complaint
the Complainant did not consent to its transmission, there was no contract or legal obligation to fulfill
necessary and did not serve the legitimate interests of the Company. In this case, GDPR Article 6 (1) d)
and the application of legal grounds according to points e) is conceptually excluded. It also follows that it is
Article 9 (2) of the GDPR is unnecessary for the assessment of the legality of data management
examination of the fulfillment of a condition, since data management is Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
does not correspond to any of the legal grounds under
 
Based on the above, it can be concluded that the Company due to the carelessness of its employees
unlawfully, in the absence of an adequate legal basis, it was forwarded to the e-mail address [x] by the Complainant's healthcare
your complaint including your data, thereby violating Article 6 (1) of the GDPR, or
in relation to health data, also Article 9 (1) of the GDPR.
 
According to the Authority's point of view, the Company's responsibility is only for the email address [x] on April 23, 2019
in connection with illegal data transmission, it can be established that the recipient [...], then he [...]
forwarded the e-mail containing the Complainant's personal data, from whom the Complainant eventually received it,
is no longer the responsibility of the Company.
 
 
III.2. Assessment of the Complainant's access request
 
The Complainant's letter of April 29, 2019, in which he requests information from the Company that the
Third, on what legal basis did the company forward its complaint, which also included your health data
person, it is considered an access request according to Article 15 of the GDPR.
 
The Company responds to this access request within one month of receipt of the request
answered, however, it contained incorrect, misleading information, since the
On May 14, 2019, a company employee erroneously informed the Complainant that because a
participated in a group trip, the travel agency booking the flight ticket has the right to travel
to participate in procedures related to complaints, at the same time the Complainant may request that a
communication should be sent directly to you.
 
The Company also acknowledged the fact of the wrong information in its statement to the Authority, and the
In his letter dated April 23, 2020, he wrote to the complainant from [...] e-mail address.

 

5

steps in order to

 
As a result, the Authority concludes that the Company has violated the GDPR. Article 15 (1)
paragraph when you did not provide information about the legal basis for the transfer of your data and instead it is wrong
provided information on the complaint handling process.
 
III.3. Deletion of the Complainant's personal data
 
In his complaint submitted to the Polish data protection authority, the Complainant requested that the Authority oblige him
the Company to delete illegally processed personal data and oblige it to “do it
can reasonably be expected
inform the data manager
data controllers that the data subject has requested from them links to the personal data in question or
deleting a copy or duplicate of these personal data."
 
In his report, the Complainant objected that the Company provided access illegally
to the personal data of a third party described in the complaint addressed to the Company, the Authority therefore
examined only this. The Company is the wrong addressee of the Complainant's complaint - the plane ticket
the person making the reservation - committed the violation by forwarding it to the
It was limited to the personal data recorded by the complainant in the complaint.
 
CLV of 1997 on consumer protection. Act (hereinafter: Law) 17/A. (7) of §
stipulates for the Company that the complaint or the record taken about it with the answer given to it
keep it for five years and present it to the inspection authorities at their request.
 
The Ftv. in order to check compliance with its regulations, if the complaint was not made in writing,
but, for example, by telephone or using other electronic communication services, then a
it is not enough for a company to record the complaint itself, but also to record such additional data
necessary to judge that the complaint was properly handled by the company
e, and which are otherwise included in a written complaint in itself. These data are as follows: a
name and address of the consumer; the place, time and method of presenting the complaint; detailed description of the complaint, a
list of documents, documents and other evidence presented.
 
By handling the complaint, and thus the data contained therein, the Company complies with Ftv. fulfills its requirements, thus
them on the basis of the Company's legal obligation according to Article 6 (1) point c) of the GDPR
legally managed, and they cannot be deleted by the Ftv based on point b) of Article 17 (3) of the GDPR. by
before the end of a specified five-year retention period.
 
On April 23, 2020, after becoming aware of the illegal data disclosure, the Company called the
addressee to delete the e-mail containing the Complainant's personal data, or to inform about the incident
also notify the persons to whom he forwarded the Complainant's personal data
containing an email and ask them to delete it.
 
Based on the above, the Authority does not accept the Complainant's complaint No. 1, given that
the Company legally, the Ftv. shall handle the Complainant's complaint on the basis of his legal obligation prescribed by
his personal data provided by him, so based on point b) of Article 17 (3) of the GDPR, they are not
you can delete it, while you have called the recipient to delete personal data. The Authority further notes that it is
during the procedure, no information emerged that the Company is the Ftv. 17/A. from paragraph (7) of §
would handle the Complainant's personal data provided in the complaint for a different purpose, therefore this part of the complaint
baseless.
 
The Authority also notes that the legal consequence of the second round of complaint No. 1
[GDPR Article 58(2)(g)] - according to which the Authority instructs the Company to "do
and the reasonably expected steps in order to inform the data controller
data controllers that the data subject has requested from them links to the personal data in question or
deleting a copy or duplicate of these personal data" - not in relation to the specific case

 

6

to delete,

can be applied, as it can only take place and can only be interpreted if the personal data
the data controller has made public, in accordance with Article 17 (2) of the GDPR, the type of data management
it did not happen in a specific case.
 
However, the Company notified the user of the e-mail address [x] that it is data protection
incident occurred and requested that the Complainant's personal data, including his health data,
delete the e-mail illegally forwarded to you, the content of the second part of complaint No. 1 has been satisfied
since, according to the Authority's point of view, the requested measure was actually aimed at this.
 
The Authority also notes that in the specific case, the personal data according to Article 19 of the GDPR
to correct you
and notifications related to the limitation of data management
cannot be interpreted as an obligation either, given that Article 16, Article 17 (1) of the GDPR did not occur
or the exercise of the rights of the data subject pursuant to Article 18.
 
III.4. Violation of the principle of purpose-related data management and data saving
 
In his statement to the Polish data protection authority, the Complainant requested that the Authority
oblige the Company to handle the Complainant's request only for the original purpose of handling the complaint
your personal data provided for the purpose, or, according to your opinion, the transmission of your data
the data saving requirement was also violated.
 
Based on what was presented in the request to the Polish data protection authority and clarification of the facts
during the process, no circumstances or information arose regarding the fact that the Company by the Complainant a
you have used your personal data recorded in the complaint for a purpose other than the purpose of handling the complaint
would have handled it any other way.
 
Due to the inattention of the Company's employee, the personal data of the Complainant a
Unlawful disclosure of the complainant's flight ticket to a third party is not covered by Article 5 of the GDPR
Purpose-bound data management according to paragraph (1) point b) and Article 5 paragraph (1) point c) of the GDPR
violation of the principle of data saving according to
in which the Company relates to the complaint
and the attachment
wanted to inform the Complainant about documents, and which had the Complainant as antecedents
letter of complaint, took place in connection with the handling of the complaint.
 
Given that the security of personal data has been compromised and a data protection incident has occurred,
thus, in relation to data transmission, neither the purpose-bound data management nor the principle of data saving
its validity cannot be interpreted, since they assume planned data management.
 
Incorrect or inappropriate addressing makes data management limited to its purpose, or data saving
requirement is not affected according to the Authority's point of view, and as a result, the Authority rejects Complainant 2.
does not accept his complaint no.
 
III.5. Legal consequences
 
The Authority finds that the Company has violated Article 5, Paragraph 1, Point f) of the GDPR, Article 6
(1), Article 9 (1) and Article 15 (1). Due to these violations, the
Authority condemns the Company based on point b) of Article 58 (2) of the GDPR.
 
The Authority does not consider it necessary that in accordance with Article 58 (2) point c) of the GDPR
instruct the Company to comply with the Complainant's access request, as it concerns this on the one hand
the Complainant did not make a request in his submission to the Polish authorities, on the other hand, the procedure
during the process, it was established that the data transfer took place in the absence of a legal basis, i.e. a new, personal one
you would no longer receive meaningful information about the management of your data from the Company.
 

about things to do,

further

 

7



In the matter of whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority is the general one
Article 83 (2) of the data protection decree and Infotv.75/A. based on §, considered the case ex officio
all the circumstances and found that there is no violation in the case of the violation discovered during this procedure
it is necessary to impose a data protection fine, the condemnation of the Company by him is a sufficient measure
due to violations of the law.
 
Based on the above, the Authority decided in accordance with the provisions of the statutory part.
 
ARC. Other questions
 
The competence of the Authority is set by Infotv. Article 38, Paragraphs (2) and (2a) defines it, the jurisdiction of the country
covers its entire territory.
 
The decision is in Art. 80-81 § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. The decision is in Art. Section 82 (1)
based on paragraph
 
The Akr. § 112, and § 116, paragraph (1), respectively, based on § 114, paragraph (1) with the decision and the
a termination order can be appealed through an administrative lawsuit.
 
The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Against the decision of the Authority based on Section 12 (1).
administrative proceedings fall within the competence of the courts, the proceedings are governed by the Kp. Section 13 (3) point a) point aa)
on the basis of subsection, the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27, subsection (1), point b).
legal representation is mandatory in a lawsuit within the jurisdiction of the court. The Kp. § 39, paragraph (6).
according to the effect of delaying the entry into force of the administrative act of the submission of the claim
there is none.
 
The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in view of this, Pp. According to § 604, the electronic one is applicable
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. law (a
hereinafter: E-administration act) according to § 9, paragraph (1), point b) of the customer's legal representative
obliged to maintain electronic contact.
 
The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). The trial
information about the possibility of an application for holding the Kp. It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77.
 
The information about the simplified trial can be found in Kp. It is based on § 124, paragraph (5).
 
The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is determined by Act XCIII of 1990 on fees. law (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. Regarding the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
paragraph and § 62 paragraph (1) point h) exempts the party initiating the procedure.
 
Budapest, August 15, 2022.
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

 

8

 

