 

 

 

 

 

May 24, 2019

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

  1st IFG Days Baden-Württemberg

 

 

IFG = Freedom of Information Act

 

“Freedom of information is a fundamental right and, in short, means nothing more than

the right of everyone to look into the files of the public administration.

 

So in the files of the town hall, the youth welfare office, the health insurance company, the

office, the schools,…. to be able to take a look. And without special

incorporation, without a lengthy application and, in principle, free of charge. Everyone! explained, Stefan

Brink, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information.

 

Freedom of information stands for a modern, open administration that is not based on

science, but on transparency, dialogue and openness.

 

The Freedom of Information Act has been in place in Baden-Württemberg since 2016

largely unnoticed by the general public.

 

"That needs to change! Because freedom of information is a fundamental right and fundamental rights

cannot be used intensively enough!” says the state representative.

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information therefore invites you

together with the IF platform FragDenstaat warmly to the 1st IFG-Days Baden-

Württemberg on!

 

The two-day event offers a colorful and creative mix of lectures,

Workshops, individual consultations, thought rooms, bar camps and an exciting

Battle. Not to forget an award-winning competition of the craziest, fun-

most important IFG inquiry ever and a joint evening cinema session.

 

Königstrasse 10a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

Also present: Stefan Wehrmeyer from FragDenStaat, Johannes Enssle, Natur-

schutzbund Baden-Württemberg, Ivan Aćimović, City of Freiburg, Hans Jannö, Schwe-

Chamber of Commerce, Oliver Rack, working group Open Government Partnership Ba-

den-Württemberg - just to name a few.

 

And we will not only discuss and exchange ideas, we will also do a lot

Having fun together! adds Stefan Brink with a smile.

 

Together we will fill the LIFG of Baden-Württemberg with life! In order to

we can say tomorrow:

 
freedom of information? Yes, Baden-Württemberg can!
 

The state representative is looking forward to you, your participation and your ideas!

 
 
 

 
 
What:
 
when:
 
Where:
 
 
 
who:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1st IFG Days Baden-Württemberg

Thursday 6 June 2019 and Friday 7 June 2019

in the premises of
State Center for Political Education Baden-Württemberg,
Lautenschlagerstrasse 20, 70173 Stuttgart

State representative for data protection
and freedom of information
Baden-Wuerttemberg
in co-operation with:
State Center for Political Education Baden-Württemberg
and
AskTheState

One more request: Register so that we can prepare and plan better

- at KULT@LfDI.bwl.de - a short email is enough!
 

And a note: the number of places is limited!

 

Further information can be found on our homepage at:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/einladung-zu-den-ersten-ifg-days-

in-bawue/

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

