
LfD Lower Saxony: Use of the registration data for vaccination letters is possible
Corona vaccination




The State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) Lower Saxony, Barbara Thiel, makes it clear that there is no fundamental data protection law obstacle to accessing registration data in order to send vaccination information to citizens. The public presentation of the past few days gave the impression that data protection generally prevents the use of registration data for this purpose. That's wrong.

It is correct that the Ministry of Social Affairs is not able to use the population register data mirror (the daily updated compilation of municipal population register data) due to state regulations to send vaccination information to people over 80 years of age. In particular, the regulations of the Lower Saxony Implementation Act for the Federal Registration Act stand in the way of this. This also applies to the involvement of a private service provider.

However, there are other ways of accessing reporting data without conflicting with reporting or data protection laws. On the one hand, the information from the Ministry of Social Affairs can be sent via the municipalities. They keep the necessary data in any case and may use it for this purpose. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Ministry of Social Affairs has accepted the offer of the municipal umbrella organizations to provide support in sending out vaccination letters.

On the other hand, the Ministry of Social Affairs can also receive the data in accordance with Section 34 (2) of the Federal Registration Act by means of a so-called group information from the respective municipalities and use it for vaccination information. The Ministry could also use a private service provider for the dispatch. If this service provider comes into contact with personal data, it would be necessary to conclude an order processing contract. In particular, the contract would have to ensure that the service provider does not use the data for its own purposes, such as B. for advertising.

"From a data protection point of view, we see no need to use the Deutsche Post Direkt GmbH database," says state data protection officer Barbara Thiel. “There are legally viable ways to use the registration data. Once again, the false impression has arisen that data protection ranks above all other goods and would prevent necessary measures. Unfortunately, my house was not involved in these issues by the Ministry of Social Affairs."

Press release as PDF download.

