 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  22/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Greece  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

adopted 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX ............................................................................................................................. 6 

2.2.2 

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................... 7 

2.2.3 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 7 

2.2.4 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 7 

2.2.5 

STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................ 8 

2.2.6 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................ 8 

2.2.7 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 9 

2.2.8 

FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................... 10 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................. 10 

Final Remarks ............................................................................................................................... 10 

 

adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the  supervisory authority  should establish accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

                                                           

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43 (2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided  by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43 (1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43 (2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of  the  Chair,  this period may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  Hellenic  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “EL  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 28 May 2020. The 
Greek national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the EL SA, once they are approved by the EL SA, following an opinion from the 
Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the EL SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation.]  

                                                           

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

adopted 

4 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

This assessment of EL SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore  it  will not make  reference  to the text  of the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the EL 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the EL SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the EL SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

9. 

adopted 

5 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board shall issue  an  opinion where  a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

10. 

11. 

The Board acknowledges the  fact  that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA. 

The Board notes that the first point in section 0 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements states 
that “In particular, the E.SY.D. shall provide the HDPA with a brief description of the request, the name 
and  contact  details  of  the  certification  body,  the  certification  scheme  for  which  accreditation  is 
requested and whether the certification criteria are approved by the competent supervisory authority 
or the EDPB, or if their approval is pending.” Based on the explanations provided by the EL SA, the 
Board  understands  that  the  last  part  of  the  sentence  refers  to  those  situations  in  which  the 
accreditation  application  is  submitted  to  the  NAB  before  the  certification  criteria  receive  the  final 
approval, but  the accreditation will not  be  given until such approval takes place. In order to avoid 
confusion, the Board encourages the EL SA to clarify that the accreditation will not be granted until 
the certification criteria receive the final approval.  

12. 

The Board notes that section 0 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements states that “The HDPA, 
if it deems appropriate, shall inform the E.SY.D. within a reasonable time of any important reasons for 
non-compliance  by  the  certification  body  with  the  GDPR.  Although  the  E.SY.D.  can  continue  the 
accreditation  process,  it  shall  not  conclude  it  until  the  HDPA  has  reached  its  final  decision  in  this 
respect.” The Board encourages the EL SA to clarify that the NAB should take into account the decision 

6 

adopted 

taken by the EL SA, although the NAB is free to decide with regard to the granting of accreditation, 
without prejudice to the power of the EL SA to revoke it afterwards, if appropriate.  

2.2.2  TERMS AND DEFINITIONS 

13. 

The Board notes that the reference to the guidelines on accreditation as “WP 261” is not updated. The 
EDPB adopted the Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of 
the General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679). Therefore, the Board encourages the EL SA to 
amend the wording and refer to the Guidelines 4/2018. 

2.2.3  GENERAL REMARKS 

14. 

15. 

The Board notes that some terms are not used consistently (e.g. reference to “competent SA” instead 
to the  “EL SA” in some  requirements, such as point 3 of subsection 4.1.2). Additionally, the Board 
considers that, when referring to a specific section of the ISO 17065 or Article of the GDPR, it should 
be clear to which of the two the reference is made (e.g. point 8 of subsection 4.1.2 does not make the 
distinction between the two different references). The Board encourages the EL SA to ensure that the 
terms used are consistent and that the references to the ISO 17065 and the GDPR are clear.  

2.2.4  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

The  Board  notes  that  section  4.1.1  (legal  responsibility)  second  indent  (starting  with  “Inform  the 
ESYD...”) and section 4.1.2 (certification agreement) point 11 of the EL SA’s accreditation requirements 
refer to the obligation to inform about “any infringements” of the GDPR. The Board is of the opinion 
that such obligation should not lead to self-incrimination and, therefore, the obligation should refer 
to infringements established by the EL SA and/or judicial authorities. Thus, the Board recommends 
the EL SA make such clarification. 

16.  With regard to section 4.1.2 (certification agreement) of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
the Board notes that the first paragraph states that the certification agreement shall be “in writing”. 
In order to ensure that electronic certification agreements are also covered, the EDPB encourages the 
EL SA to replace “in writing” by “in written form” or equivalent wording.  

17.  Moreover, with regard to point 9 of section 4.1.2 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the 
Board  acknowledges  the  inclusion  of  appropriate  procedures  “into  the  management  of  the 
certification  body”.  The  Board  understands  that  the  reference  is  to  the  management  system  and 
encourages the EL SA to clarify it accordingly.  

18.  Regarding section 4.1.3 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board acknowledges the 
obligation to inform the EL SA about the data protection seals and marks and provide a copy. However, 
the Board is of the opinion that the addressees of such obligation are not clear from the requirement. 
Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  EL  SA  to  clarify  the  addressees  of  the  above-mentioned 
obligation.  

19.  With regard to the requirements to manage impartiality (section 4.2 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements) and, in particular, the reference to the conflict of interests in the last paragraph, the 
Board considers that the wording should be clarified. The Board acknowledges the importance to have 
requirements that ensure, firstly, that there are no conflicts of interests and, secondly, in the case that 
conflicts  of  interest  are  identified,  that  the  certification  body  manages  them.  The  Board  is  of  the 

7 

adopted 

20. 

21. 

opinion that the wording of the EL SA’s draft requirements seems to reverse this logical order. In order 
to avoid confusion, the Board encourages the EL SA to rephrase the sentence by stating first that the 
certification body shall ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.   

The Board notes that indent 2 of section 4.2 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements states that 
the certification body shall not be “affiliated” with the customer it assesses. The Board encourages 
the EL SA to clarify the wording, in order to reflect the independence of the certification body. For 
example, the EL SA could state that the certification body should not belong to the same company 
group nor should be controlled in any way by the customer it assesses.  

2.2.5  STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS 

The Board observes that section 5.1 of the EL SA’ draft accreditation requirements make reference to 
the  appointment  of  “a  person  with  significant  experience  in  the  protection  of  personal  data  with 
responsibility for overseeing data protection compliance.” The functions of this figure seem similar to 
those of a data protection officer. The Board encourages the EL SA to clearly set out the functions of 
this figure.   

2.2.6  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

22.  Concerning certification body personnel (section 6.1), the Board notes that the requirements follow 
the  Annex.  In  this  respect,  the  Board  is  of  the  Opinion  that,  with  regard  to  the  expertise  of  the 
certification  body,  the  emphasis  should  be  put  on  the  different  type  of  substantive  expertise  and 
experience. Specifically, the Board considers that the competence requirements for evaluators and 
decision-makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In the 
Board’s opinion, evaluators should have a more specialist expertise and professional experience in 
technical  procedures  (e.g.  audits  and  certifications),  whereas  decision-makers  should  have  a more 
general  and  comprehensive  expertise  and  professional  experience  in  data  protection.  Considering 
this,  the  Board  encourages  the  EL  SA  to  redraft  this  section  taking  into  account  the  different 
substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers. 

23.  Additionally, regarding the educational requirements of the technical personnel, the Board considers 
that the list of subjects is already tailored to the technical expertise required by the Annex. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the EL SA to delete the reference to “natural sciences” from the list of subjects 
regarding the educational requirements of the technical personnel. 

24. 

Finally, the Board considers that the last paragraph of section 6.1 is applicable to both personnel with 
technical expertise and with legal expertise. The Board encourages the EL SA to clarify that it includes 
both.   

25.  Regarding the educational requirements for personnel with technical expertise, the Annex refers to 
“a  qualification  in  a  relevant  area  of  technical  expertise  to  at  least  EQF  level  6  or  a  recognised 
protected title (e.g. Dipl. Ing.) in the relevant regulated profession”.  However, there is no reference 
to the underlined sentence in the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements. Additionally, the reference 
to the qualification to at least EQF level 6 has been replaced by an explicit reference to a university 
degree. Taking into account the variety in the educational systems, the Board recommends that the 
EL SA’s draft requirements be aligned with the wording of the Annex, taking into account the specific 
educational  system  and  requirements  established  in  national  law.  For  example,  the  requirements 

8 

adopted 

could refer to a qualification “in information technology, computer science or mathematics of at least 
EQF level 6 or an equivalent vocational education enjoying a recognised protected title in the Member 
State where it was issued”.  

2.2.7  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

26. 

The  Board  notes  that  section  7.2  of  the  EL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“application”) 
contains a reference to the controller/processor contract(s) and their specific arrangements. While 
acknowledging that the EL SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the EL SA to 
include a reference to joint controllers and their specific arrangements. 

27.  With  regard  to  section  7.4  (“Evaluation”),  point  3,  the  Board  considers  that  the  reference  to  the 
requirements “as set out in the criteria” seems to presuppose that the criteria are complete. While 
acknowledging that the EL SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the EL SA to 
refer to “the adopted criteria”, in order to avoid confusion. 

28.  With  regard  to  section  7.8  of  the  EL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“directory  of  certified 
products”), the Board notes that the two paragraphs listing the information that shall be made publicly 
available seem to overlap, since the relationship between the two documents mentioned (directory 
and evaluation report) is not clear. The Board encourages the EL SA to clarify the relationship between 
the two documents mentioned in those paragraphs.  

29.  Regarding section 7.9 (“Surveillance”) of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes 
that the periodicity of the surveillance is stated as “at least twice during the certification cycle”. The 
Board considers that, when determining the periodicity of the surveillance, the risk associated with 
the processing should be taken into account. Therefore, the Board encourages the EL SA to include a 
risk-based approach with regard to the arrangements for surveillance. 

30.  Regarding  section  7.11  of  the  EL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Termination,  reduction, 
suspension or withdrawal of certification), the Board notes that the third paragraph states that, with 
regard to the obligation to accept the decisions and orders of the EL SA to not issue certification when 
the requirements for certification are no longer met, “the certification body shall provide clear and 
documented evidence to the HDPA that the certification criteria are not being met”. Based on further 
explanations provided by the EL SA, the Board understands that the obligation of the certification body 
is to provide evidence to the EL SA that proper action has been taken. The Board encourages the EL 
SA to clarify the meaning in those lines.  

31.  Additionally, the Board notes and welcomes the inclusion of a requirement related to serious data 
breaches. However, in order to avoid confusion, the Board encourages the EL SA to clarify that such 
requirement do not affect the obligation of the clients to inform the SA in accordance to the GDPR.  

32. 

Finally, the Board notes that section 7.12 (“Records”) of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
includes the obligation to record the contact details of certification body personnel responsible for 
evaluation  and  certification  decisions,  and  to  make  such  information  available  to  the  EL  SA  upon 
request. The Board is of the opinion that the ultimate responsible for the activities of the certification 
body’s personnel is the certification body. Therefore, the Board encourages the EL SA to specify the 
purpose of the requirement.   

adopted 

9 

2.2.8  FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

33.  Regarding subsection 9.3.1 (“Communication between CB and its clients”), the Board notes that the 
EL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  include  the  obligation  to  have  procedures  in  place  for 
implementing appropriate procedures and communication structures between the certification body 
and its clients. In section 3 (“Terms and definitions”) of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
“client”  is  described  as  “the  controller  of  processor  that  has  been  certified”.  However,  the 
requirements in subsection 9.3.1 of the EL SA’s draft accreditation requirements are also relevant for 
applicants and, therefore, the Board encourages the EL SA to clarify it.  

34. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  last  paragraph  of  subsection  9.3.3  is  not  formulated  as  a  mandatory 
requirement. The Board encourages the EL SA to replace the word “should” by “shall”, to make clear 
that it is an obligation. Additionally, the Board considers that relevant complaints and objections not 
only have to be notified to the EL SA, but they have to be shared with the EL SA. The obligation to 
share  with  the  EL  SA  the  relevant  complains  and  objections  shall  be  clear  in  the  requirements. 
Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  EL  SA  to  redraft  the  requirement  by  stating  that  relevant 
complaints and objections shall be shared with the EL SA.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

35. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Hellenic Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

36.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1)  clarify in sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 that the obligation to inform about any infringements of 

the GDPR refers to infringements established by the EL SA and/or judicial authorities. 

37.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1)  align  the  wording  regarding  the  education  requirements  for  personnel  with  technical 
expertise  with  the  Annex,  taking  into  account  the  specific  educational  system  and 
requirements established in national law. 

38.  Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1)  redraft  the  requirement  in  subsection  9.3.3  by  stating  that  relevant  complaints  and 

objections shall be shared with the EL SA. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

39. 

This opinion is addressed to the Hellenic Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

40.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the EL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the  same  period,  it  shall  provide  the  amended  draft  list  or  where  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

10 

adopted 

41. 

The EL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

adopted 

11 

