



A question of power

Photo by geralt from Pixabay





Joint events of the JIZ and HmbBfDI for Digital Day 2021
Joint events of the JIZ and HmbBfDI for Digital Day 2021

06/14/2021
•
event


As part of the Digital Day 2021, the JIZ and the HmbBfDI will provide information about "fake news" in social networks and their role in the upcoming federal elections.
Even if it has not yet been finally clarified what influence fake news has on democratic decision-making processes, the danger of targeted manipulation and influencing of democratic discourse is real. This was also shown by the data protection scandals of recent years (e.g. "Cambridge Analytica"). It is therefore more important than ever to know the risks and dangers in digital environments and to take appropriate measures to protect your privacy in the digital space. Media education is one of the core competencies in our digital society.
With a view to the upcoming federal elections in Germany in September 2021, the risk of being influenced by false information is now becoming even more concrete. For this reason, the JIZ and the HmbBfDI, in addition to student workshops and information for parents, invite you to a panel discussion
"A question of power - The influence of social media on our democracy" on June 18, 2021, 6 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Discuss on the panel:

Prof. Dr. Johannes Caspar, Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information,
Bendix Hügelmann, strategy consultant and research consultant on the influence of digital media and micro-targeting on voting and consumer behavior
Friedrich-Joachim Mehmel, former President of the Hamburg Constitutional and Higher Administrative Court,

Anna Tietzel, teacher at the Hochrad high school.

Moderator: Helene Fuchs, Head of Jugendpresse Deutschland e. V

Johannes Caspar, Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: “Digitization and informational integrity are central meta-topics. The question of the limits of profiling and manipulation through data processing precedes any substantive debate. Sensitizing young people in particular to the enormous power of data is central to the sustainable development of our democratic institutions and the unadulterated formation of political will. This is the only way to ensure that responsible and self-determined action will be a determining constant in future digital change. I am therefore very pleased to be able to discuss these topics together with proven experts as part of the Digital Day.”
Anyone interested can register for the podium by e-mail until June 16, 2021
(rot13("zrqvraovyqhat@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "tykjaecozupsrmxl");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@gnudlibneidem). Please note that the number of participants is limited.
The access data for the event will be sent by e-mail on June 17th.


press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "tlmruoyspqzbfhgn");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "psbjxrozqlvckyei");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp







