1  
Translations proofread by EDPB Members.  
This language version has not yet been proofread.  
Frequently Asked Questions about the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 — Data Protection Commissioner vs Facebook Ireland and Maximillian Schrems  
Adopted on July 23, 2020  

This document aims to present answers to some of the frequently asked questions received by the supervisory authorities (hereinafter, "SA") and will be elaborated and completed with further analysis, as the EDPB continues to examine and assess the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter, the "Court").  
The judgment C-311/18 can be consulted here and the Court's press release here.  

1)  
How did the Court of Justice rule in the judgment?  
 In its judgment, the Court examined the validity of Decision 2010/87/EU of the European Commission on standard contractual clauses ("SCC") and deemed it valid. Indeed, the validity of this Decision is not called into question merely because, due to its contractual nature, the standard clauses for data protection contained therein do not bind the authorities of the third country to which the data could be transferred.  
However, the Court of Justice specifies that this validity depends on whether Decision 2010/87/EU includes effective mechanisms that ensure in practice that the level of protection required by Union law through the GDPR is respected and that transfers of personal data based on these clauses are suspended or prohibited in case of non-compliance with said clauses or if it becomes impossible to comply with them.  
In this regard, the Court emphasizes, in particular, that Decision 2010/87/EU obliges the data exporter and the recipient of the transfer (the "data importer") to verify beforehand, taking into account the circumstances of the transfer, that the aforementioned level of protection is respected in the relevant third country, and that Decision 2010/87/EU obliges the data importer to inform the data exporter that it may be unable to comply with the standard data protection clauses, in which case the exporter must suspend the data transfer or terminate the contract entered into with the importer.  
 The Court also examined the validity of the Privacy Shield Decision (Decision 2016/1250 on the adequacy of the protection afforded by the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield), as the transfers in question in the context of the national litigation that led to the request for a preliminary ruling took place between the EU and the United States ("U.S.").  
The Court found that the requirements of U.S. national law, and in particular certain programs that allow U.S. public authorities to access personal data transferred from the EU to the U.S. for national security purposes, impose limitations on the protection of personal data that are not circumscribed in a way that offers substantially equivalent guarantees to those required under Union law, and that this legislation does not provide any judicial remedy against U.S. authorities for data subjects.  
As a consequence of such interference with the fundamental rights of individuals whose data is transferred to that third country, the Court declared the Privacy Shield adequacy decision invalid.  

2)  
Does the Court's judgment have implications for transfer instruments other than the Privacy Shield?  
 In general, regarding third countries, the threshold established by the Court also applies to all adequate safeguards under Article 46 of the GDPR used to transfer data from the EEA to any third country. The U.S. law referred to by the Court (i.e., Section 702 of FISA and EO 12333) applies to any transfer to the U.S. through electronic means that falls within the scope of this legislation, regardless of the transfer instrument used.  

3)  
Is there a grace period during which I can continue transferring data to the United States without assessing my legal basis for the transfer?  
 No. The Court has invalidated the Privacy Shield Decision without maintaining its effects, as the U.S. legislation assessed by the Court does not provide a level of protection that is substantially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU. This assessment must be taken into account for any transfer to the U.S.  

4)  
I have transferred data to a U.S. data importer that is part of the Privacy Shield. What should I do now?  
1 The Court emphasizes that certain surveillance programs that allow U.S. public authorities to access personal data transferred from the EU to the U.S. for national security purposes do not impose limitations on the authority granted to U.S. authorities, nor do they provide guarantees for non-U.S. persons that are potentially specific.  
2 Section 702 of FISA applies to any "provider of electronic communications services" (see the definition in Title 50, Section 1881, paragraph b), subsection 4, of the USC), while EO 12333 organizes electronic surveillance, which is defined as the "acquisition of non-public communications by electronic means without the consent of a person who is a party to an electronic communication or, in the case of a non-electronic communication, without the consent of a person who is visibly present at the communication location, but does not include the use of direction-finding equipment solely to determine the location of a transmitter" (3.4; b)).
3  
 Transfers based on this legal framework are illegal. If you wish to continue transferring data to the United States, you must verify whether you can do so under the conditions outlined below.  

5)  
I use SCCs with a data importer in the U.S. What should I do?  
 The Court found that U.S. law (i.e., Section 702 of FISA and EO 12333) does not provide a level of protection that is substantially equivalent. The possibility of transferring personal data based on SCCs will depend on the outcome of your assessment, taking into account the circumstances of the transfers and any supplementary measures you may have implemented. The supplementary measures, along with the SCCs, following a case-by-case analysis of the circumstances of the transfer, must ensure that U.S. legislation does not affect the adequate level of protection they guarantee. If you conclude that, considering the circumstances of the transfer and the possible supplementary measures, adequate safeguards would not apply, you are required to suspend or terminate the transfer of personal data. However, if you wish to continue transferring data despite this conclusion, you must notify your competent DPA.  

6)  
I am using Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) with an entity in the United States. What should I do?  
 Considering the Court's ruling, which invalidated the Privacy Shield due to the degree of interference created by U.S. legislation with the fundamental rights of individuals whose data is transferred to that third country, and the fact that the Privacy Shield was also designed to provide safeguards for data transferred with other tools such as BCRs, the Court's assessment also applies in the context of BCRs, as U.S. legislation will also take precedence over this tool. The possibility of transferring personal data based on BCRs will depend on the outcome of your assessment, taking into account the circumstances of the transfers and any supplementary measures you may have implemented. These supplementary measures, along with the BCRs, following a case-by-case analysis of the circumstances of the transfer, must ensure that U.S. legislation does not affect the adequate level of protection they guarantee. If you conclude that, considering the circumstances of the transfer and the possible supplementary measures, adequate safeguards would not apply, you are required to suspend or terminate the transfer of personal data. However, if you wish to continue transferring data despite this conclusion, you must notify your competent DPA.  

7)  
What happens with other transfer tools under Article 46 of the GDPR?  
3 See, in particular, Recital 145 of the Court's ruling and Clause 4, letter g), of Commission Decision 2010/87/EU, as well as Clause 5, letter a), of Commission Decision 2001/497/EC, and letter c) of Annex II of Commission Decision 2004/915/EC.  
4 See, in particular, Recital 145 of the Court's ruling and Clause 4, letter g), of Commission Decision 2010/87/EU. See also Section 6.3 of WP256, rev. 01 (Article 29 Working Party; working document establishing a framework with the elements and principles included in BCRs, endorsed by the EDPS, http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614109), and Section 6.3 of WP257, rev. 01 (Article 29 Working Party; working document establishing a framework with the elements and principles included in BCRs, endorsed by the EDPS, http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614110).
4  
 The EDPB will evaluate the consequences of the ruling on transfer tools other than SCCs and BCRs. The ruling clarifies that the standard for adequate safeguards under Article 46 of the GDPR is that of "substantial equivalence." As the Court has emphasized, it should be noted that Article 46 is located in Chapter V of the GDPR and, therefore, must be interpreted in light of Article 44 of the GDPR, which states that "all provisions of that chapter shall apply in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by that regulation is not undermined."  

8)  
Can I rely on one of the exceptions provided for in Article 49 of the GDPR to transfer data to the United States?  
 It is still possible to transfer data from the EEA to the U.S. based on the exceptions provided for in Article 49 of the GDPR, as long as the conditions set out in this article are met. The EDPB refers to its guidelines on this provision.  

In particular, it should be noted that when transfers are based on the consent of the data subject, they must be:  
- explicit;  
- specific to the transfer or set of specific data transfers (which means that the data exporter must ensure that they obtain specific authorization before the transfer is initiated, even if this occurs after the data has been collected); and  
- informed, particularly about the potential risks of the transfer (i.e., the data subject should also be informed of the specific risks arising from the fact that their data will be transferred to a country that does not provide adequate protection and that adequate safeguards aimed at ensuring data protection do not apply).  

Regarding transfers necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the data controller, it should be noted that personal data may only be transferred when the transfer is occasional. It must be determined on a case-by-case basis whether the data transfers would be classified as "occasional" or "non-occasional." In any case, this exception may only be invoked when the transfer is objectively necessary for the performance of the contract.  

In relation to transfers necessary for important reasons of public interest (which must be recognized in EU or Member State legislation), the EDPB reminds that the substantial requirement for the applicability of this exception is the identification of an important public interest and not the nature of the organization, and that, although this exception is not limited to data transfers that are "occasional," this does not mean that data transfers based on the exception for important reasons of public interest can take place on a large scale and systematically. On the contrary, the general principle must be respected that the exceptions established in Article 49 of the GDPR should not become the "norm" in practice but should be limited to specific situations, and each data exporter must ensure that the transfer meets the strict necessity test.  

5 See EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on the exceptions to Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of May 25, 2018, https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_2_2018_derogations_en.pdf, p.3.  
6 References to "Member States" should be understood as references to "EEA Member States."
5  
9) Can I continue using SCCs or BCRs to transfer data to a third country other than the U.S.?  
 The Court has indicated that, as a general rule, SCCs can still be used to transfer data to a third country, although the threshold established by the Court for transfers to the United States applies to any third country. The same applies to BCRs.  
The Court emphasized that it is the responsibility of the data exporter and the data importer to assess whether the level of protection required by EU legislation is respected in the third country in question to determine whether the safeguards provided by the SCCs or BCRs can be complied with in practice. If not, they must assess whether they can provide additional measures to ensure a level of protection equivalent to that established in the EEA, and whether the legislation of the third country will not affect these additional measures to avoid their effectiveness.  
You may contact the data importer to check the legislation of their country and collaborate in their assessment. If you or the data importer from the third country decide that the data transferred under the SCCs or BCRs does not have a substantially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed in the EEA, you must immediately suspend the transfers. If you do not do so, you must notify your competent DPA.  
 Although, as the Court has emphasized, it is the primary responsibility of exporters and importers of data to assess that the legislation of the destination third country allows the data importer to comply with the data protection standard contractual clauses or BCRs before transferring personal data to that third country, DPAs will also play a key role in the enforcement of the GDPR and in adopting new decisions on transfers to third countries. As requested by the Court, in order to avoid divergent decisions, they will continue to work within the EDPB to ensure consistency, particularly regarding whether transfers to third countries should be prohibited.  
10) What kind of supplementary measures can I introduce if I resort to SCCs or BCRs to transfer data to third countries?  
 Any supplementary measures that may be considered should be presented on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all the circumstances of the transfer and after evaluating the legislation of the third country, in order to verify whether it guarantees an adequate level of protection.  
The Court highlighted that it is primarily the responsibility of the data exporter and the data importer to carry out this assessment and provide the necessary supplementary measures.  
The EDPB is currently analyzing the Court's ruling to determine what types of supplementary measures could be adopted in addition to the SCCs or BCRs, whether they be legal, technical, or organizational measures, to transfer data to third countries where the SCCs or BCRs do not provide sufficient guarantees on their own.  
 The EDPB is studying what these additional measures could consist of and will provide further guidance.  
7 See, in particular, Recital 145 of the Court's ruling. Regarding the SCCs, see Clause 4, letter g), of Commission Decision 2010/87/EU, as well as Clause 5, letter a) of Commission Decision 2001/497/EC and letter c) of Annex II of Commission Decision 2004/915/EC. Regarding the BCRs, see Section 6.3 of WP256 rev.01 (endorsed by the EDPB), and Section 6.3 of WP257, rev.01 (endorsed by the EDPB).  

6  
11) I use a processor that processes data under my responsibility as the data controller. How can I know if that processor transfers data to the U.S. or to another third country?  
 The contract you have entered into with a processor, in accordance with Article 28(3) of the GDPR, must determine whether the transfers are authorized or not (it should be noted that merely providing access to the data to a third country, for example for administrative purposes, amounts to a transfer).  
 The delegation by processors of transfers of data to third countries to other subprocessors must also be subject to authorization. Care should be taken because a wide variety of IT solutions may involve the transfer of personal data to a third country (for example, for storage or maintenance purposes).  
12) What can I do to continue using the services of my processor if the contract signed in accordance with Article 28(3) of the GDPR indicates that the data may be transferred to the United States or to another third country?  
 If your data can be transferred to the United States and no additional measures can be adopted to ensure that U.S. law does not affect a level of protection substantially equivalent to that offered by the transfer tools in the EEA, nor do the exceptions provided for in Article 49 of the GDPR apply, the only solution is to negotiate an additional clause or amendment to the contract that prohibits transfers to the U.S. The data must not only be stored but also managed in a location other than the U.S.  
 If your data can be transferred to a third country, you must also check whether the legislation of that third country meets the requirements of the Court and the expected level of protection for personal data. If no adequate grounds for transfers to a third country are found, personal data must not be transferred outside the territory of the EEA, and all processing activities must take place within that space.  
By the European Data Protection Board  
The Chair  
Andrea Jelinek