 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Personal data on a trip around the world
Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
new guide to international data transfers

Munich, May 24, 2023

Unfortunately, the world of GDPR has limits. Outside the European
economic area, there is rarely more, usually considerably less data protection.
At the same time, Bavarian public authorities also make use of transfer-prone operating resources
third countries, or they otherwise provide such data to a recipient "from outside"
open. The General Data Protection Regulation wants personal data from its
protect the area beyond its borders as far as possible and has a right to do so
complex set of rules ready. This not only prepares those responsible, but also data
protection supervisors some headaches. The discussion about this set of rules is
been in flux for several years and not yet come to an end.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection is now laying out a new orientation
help "International Data Transfers" which reflects the current status of legal developments
traces and from it notes for the administrative practice of the Bavarian public
positions. The directives issued after the "Schrems II" decision
European Data Protection Board are taken into account as well as relevant statements
of the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities of the Federal Government and
of the federal states as well as the planned decision according to Art. 45 of the General Data Protection Regulation
European Commission on data transfers to the USA.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "Third-country transfers are also part of everyday life for the Bavarian state authorities
a recurring theme, since the common products come from
IT services often from non-EU countries. Once personal data
are involved, references to third countries often lead to legal complications. responsible
should nevertheless not 'bury their heads in the sand', but face the challenges
place. The new guide aims to offer support in this regard. Also in third countries
ten transfers applies: With enough knowledge, many problems become more manageable.”

As of today, the "International data transfer" guide is available at https://www.da-
tenschutz-bayern.de in the “Data Protection Reform 2018” section for free download
ready.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

