 
 
 
 
 
 

711.436.1

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

January 22, 2021

Digital lessons - grievances must be remedied as quickly as possible
 
After the renewed school closures, the high number of inquiries about
data protection-compliant use of digital learning materials by schools, teachers, parents and
Media representatives who work for the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
reached, increased again. The Data Protection Authority notes with regret that in
Educational area still has not managed to function and the current law
to provide appropriate digital infrastructures as well as legally compliant software solutions
select and procure.
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, makes it clear that
that distance learning - using digital teaching and learning materials - in these difficult
times must nevertheless be possible. It will therefore continue its supervisory activities in the current
As in the past few months, follow the pandemic situation with caution and a sense of proportion
and of action against individual schools using problematic services, to the extent
possible foresee.
 
The temporary waiver of drastic measures against the responsible schools
does not mean, however, that the use of digital services that do not comply with data protection regulations
This makes it lawful and generally accepted by the data protection supervisory authority
becomes. The current use of digital products whose data protection conformity is not guaranteed
must by no means become permanent in Berlin schools. The upcoming summer months must
are used intensively by those responsible to ensure a data protection-compliant and
to enable trouble-free digital lessons until the new school year.
 
According to the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), data may only be
processed if the requirements of this directly applicable in Berlin are met
law are complied with. According to the law, it is the task of the respective
Responsible bodies, before data processing, to ensure that the processing
takes place in accordance with the GDPR. This must be proven by the responsible body
be able. According to the applicable Berlin state law, the individual schools are currently themselves
responsible for the use of digital services in the classroom. Specifically, this means that each
individual school for each product to be used a comprehensive test with regard to the
Compliance with data protection requirements and data security
must before using the product.
 
This assignment of tasks is not appropriate because it is highly inefficient if
a large number of schools must carry out the same examinations in case of doubt.
On the other hand, however, schools are regularly completely overwhelmed with these tests because
This is not about a purely pedagogical assessment of digital teaching aids, but goes far beyond that

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

goes beyond examining and evaluating highly complex legal and technical issues
Issues that teachers are not usually trained for and for which they are not
have the necessary time resources. This task can therefore be useful
are only managed centrally by the specialist authority that is superior to them. This is in
the obligation to set minimum standards for digital teaching and learning materials and such
pre-selection of pedagogically and legally appropriate digital services and products
meeting. This is the only way schools can be given the necessary legal certainty.
 
The data protection supervisory authority cannot take over this task from the educational administration. the
The legal task of the data protection supervisory authority is to ensure the application of data protection
to control and enforce the Basic Regulation (Article 57 (1) of the Data Protection
basic regulation). In addition, she has the task of those responsible for them from the
to raise awareness of the obligations arising from the General Data Protection Regulation and e.g. Parliament and
to advise the government on legislative and administrative measures on data protection.
 
About the very important process of digitizing school lessons in the pandemic-related
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information accordingly early last year a number of
Help published and a large number of inquiries from individual schools, teachers and
parents answered. As early as spring 2020, she developed and published concrete information
on the data protection-compliant use of digital learning platforms and the use of
Video conferencing services for Berlin officials. In parallel, she conducted a detailed
Audit of various video conferencing services, the result on July 3, 2020
was published and received nationwide attention (www.datenschutz-
berlin.de/corona-pandemie). This overview will be updated shortly.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“Data protection is not an end in itself. Children and young people are among the most
protective members of our society. For me, from the beginning of my tenure, it has been a
been a central concern that students wisely and sustainably to the
Challenges of the digitized society are introduced and a solid
Develop awareness of the dangers hidden within. In times when the use
algorithmic processes and artificial intelligence is spreading rapidly in all areas of life,
must therefore be ensured that the digital services used in schools
come, offer the children a safe space to learn and develop. Of the
The use of digital services that do not comply with data protection regulations is illegal and therefore
permanent solution is not acceptable. Such services represent a serious
endangerment for the pupils. This situation must be rectified as soon as possible
be terminated. I expect that those responsible in this area will continuously and with
Working hard to ensure that by the start of the next school year at the latest, all Berliners
schools can operate legally.”
 

 

