1/11

 File No.: EXP202102762

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated September 20, 2021, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a document presented by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against D.B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed in
Cafeteria
 STREET
*** ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of the
data protection regulations.

*** SHOPPING CENTER.1,

***CAFETERIA.1 of C.C.

The claimant states that “There is a video surveillance camera installed on the premises that
it also captures audio and is not signposted. The chamber has a platform
swivel that allows you to record outside the marked location. The owner also
dedicated to PUBLISHING the images/videos you capture with the camera in groups of
WhatsApp. He also uses it to spy on the private conversations of employees.
and customers who come to the bar.

Next I will attach an image that the owner of the establishment has
Shared in a Whatsapp group. The image is dated by the
video camera. In it you can see the outside of the premises, the center corridor
where the rest of the people who come to the center to go to other
local.

As I mentioned earlier, the camera is rotatable so you usually control it
and change your position daily. It can also be seen at the bottom as the
sound icon is active, so you are listening to conversations on
that very moment.”

It provides images of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee
of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being received on the date
October 14, 2021, as stated in the proof of delivery issued by the service of
emails.

Given the lack of response, said transfer was reiterated, being returned by the
emails with the annotation "Unknown".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 20
December 2021.

FOURTH: On March 2, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for
the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On March 18, 2022, the notification of the
Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure with the annotation “Returned to Origin
by surplus (Not withdrawn in the office)”.

On March 31, said shipment was reiterated, being returned again with the
annotation “Returned to origin by unknown”.

Therefore, it was sent to the Single Edictal Board (TEU), being published on the 27th of
April 2022.

There is no record that, at the present time, the respondent has submitted a written
allegations to it.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding- establishes
that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, when it contains a precise pronouncement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the facts
in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and
the penalty that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into consideration that the part
claimed has not made allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in
attention to what is established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement
is considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On September 20, 2021, it entered this Agency
claim of D.A.A.A. against the defendant for having installed a security camera
video surveillance with a rotating platform that allows you to record outside the premises
Cafeteria
 STREET
***DIRECTION.1 and that captures audio, also lacking informative signs.

*** SHOPPING CENTER.1,

***CAFETERIA.1

  DC

 of

SECOND: Photographs of the location of the camera are provided.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or installations
strategic or infrastructure linked to transport, without in any case
may involve capturing images of the interior of a private home.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that case,
The images must be made available to the competent authority within a period
maximum of seventy-two hours from the knowledge of the existence of
the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered

excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access to
the images.

6. The processing of personal data from images and sounds
obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Forces and
Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in the
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, surveillance and discipline of traffic,
shall be governed by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680, when the
processing is for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including protection and
prevention against threats to public safety. out of these
assumptions, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and additionally
by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places can only be
carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the people who
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection of
private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles

12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to the
legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”), as well as the Guide on
the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide for the
compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section “Guides and
tools").

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures of
guideline security considered minimum.

IV

On the other hand, it must be remembered that the voice is personal data because it is
of a peculiar and individual characteristic of each person that makes it identifiable, and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

that the recording or amplification of the sound of voice constitutes data processing
personal.

In this case, the system installed by the claimed party also allows the capture
of the sound being able to access, as the claimant party affirms, the “conversations
employees and customers who come to the bar"

The fact that compliance with the requirements set forth in article 22 of the
LOPDGDD can legitimize video surveillance for security reasons does not imply
necessarily that the recording of the voice be legitimized, treatment that will have to have
its own justification, which does not happen in this case.

The use of the questioned system that allows the listening or recording of the
conversations of both employees and customers, to the extent that the system
will allow to capture private conversations may be disproportionate and
incompatible with the principle of minimization since it supposes an excessive interference in the
right to privacy, as can be deduced from STC 98/2000, which in this regard
points out: “the implementation of the audition and recording system has not been in this case
in accordance with the principles of proportionality and minimum intervention that govern the
Modulation of fundamental rights by the requirements of the interest
of the business organization, since the purpose pursued (to give a plus of
security, especially in the event of possible customer complaints) is
disproportionate to the sacrifice that implies the right to privacy of the
workers (and even casino patrons). This system allows capturing
private comments, both from customers and casino workers,
comments completely unrelated to business interest and therefore irrelevant from the
perspective of control of labor obligations, being able, however, to have
negative consequences for the workers who, in any case, are going to feel
constrained to make any type of personal comment before the conviction
that they will be heard and recorded by the company. It is, in short, a
illegitimate interference in the right to privacy enshrined in art. 18.1 CE, well no
there is a definitive argument that authorizes the company to listen and record the
private conversations that casino workers have with each other or with
customers” (FJ 9).

In accordance with this constitutional doctrine, the LOPDGDD recognizes, in its article
89, the right to privacy against the use of video surveillance devices and
sound recording in the workplace. Article 89 specifies how the
employer adopt these business control measures, by providing the following:

1. Employers will be able to treat the images obtained through systems
of cameras or video cameras for the exercise of control functions of the
workers or public employees provided, respectively, in article 20.3
of the Workers' Statute and in the public function legislation, provided that
These functions are exercised within their legal framework and with the limits inherent to the
same. Employers must inform in advance, and expressly,
clearly and concisely, to workers or public employees and, where appropriate, to their
representatives, about this measure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

In the event that the flagrant commission of an illegal act has been detected
by public workers or employees, it shall be understood that the duty of
report when there is at least the device referred to in article 22.4 of
this organic law.

2. In no case will the installation of video recording systems be allowed.
sounds or video surveillance in places intended for rest or recreation of
workers or public employees, such as changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and
analogues.

3. The use of systems similar to those referred to in the previous sections
for the recording of sounds in the workplace will be admitted only when
risks to the safety of facilities, goods and people are relevant
arising from the activity carried out in the workplace and always respecting
the principle of proportionality, the principle of minimum intervention and the guarantees provided for in
the previous sections. The suppression of sounds preserved by these systems
The recording will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of article 22 of
is
law.

 

Thus, the recording of sounds in the workplace can only be done
when the risks for the security of the installations, assets and
people derived from the activity that takes place in the workplace and always
respecting the principle of proportionality, that of minimum intervention and the guarantees
that article 89 itself provides.

Therefore, in those cases in which such risks concur, the recording of the voice of the
people must be justified and proportional. To check if a measure
restrictive of a fundamental right exceeds the judgment of proportionality, it is necessary
Check if you meet the following three requirements or conditions:

1. That it is a measure capable of achieving the proposed objective (judgment of
suitability).

2. That there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with
equal efficacy (judgment of necessity).

3. That it be weighted or balanced, because it derives more benefits or
advantages for the general interest than harm to other goods or values in conflict”
(judgment of proportionality).

In this case, the respondent party has not proven the concurrent circumstances that
could justify the proportionality of the measure has not even declared its purpose,
so it can be concluded that the use of this video surveillance system that allows
capturing private comments from natural persons also violates the principle of
data minimization for this reason.

v

In the present case, the claim was filed because the respondent has installed a
video surveillance camera with a rotating platform that allows it to record outside the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

local cafeteria ***CAFETERIA.1 del
***DIRECTION.1 and that captures audio, also lacking informative signs.

 DC *** SHOPPING CENTER.1,

 STREET

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence indicated
in the “Facts” section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the power
to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD -article 58.2
i)-, or the power to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the
treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2 d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

SAW

In accordance with the evidence available and which has not been
distorted in the sanctioning procedure, the defendant has a camera installed
of video surveillance that could be capturing images of third parties, and also lacks
information poster of the existence of these cameras, so it is considered that
These facts violate the provisions of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, which
involves the commission of offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides
the next:

"Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;
[…].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infractions indicated in the
previous paragraph are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.
(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law. (…)»

7th

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. By
Therefore, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the LOPDGDD,
Regarding section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD:

In the initial assessment, the following have been considered:

- The nature of the offense by having a video surveillance system that
is oriented towards public transit areas without just cause, treating data of
identifiable natural persons (art. 83.5 a) RGPD.

- The intention or negligence of the infraction, the cameras are oriented

to the outside of your property (83.2.b) RGPD).

- The informative poster is incomplete, without indicating who is responsible for the
treatment or where the interested parties can go to exercise their rights
recognized in the GDPR.

viii

However, as already indicated in the initial agreement and in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to which each authority of
control may "order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period […].”
requires the respondent to take the following steps:

- provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating

in a location plan the parts that correspond to your particular property.

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to

reorientation of it towards its particular area.

- certifies having proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the
possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts), locating this
device in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

- certifies that it keeps the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: IMPOSE D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €300
(three hundred euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 13
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €300 (three hundred
euros).

 

THIRD: ORDER D.B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, which, by virtue of article 58.2.d)
of the GDPR, within ten days, take the following measures:

- provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating

in a location plan the parts that correspond to your particular property.

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to

reorientation of it towards its particular area.

- certifies having proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the
possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts), locating this
device in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

- certifies that it keeps the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to D. B.B.B..

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of article
98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in article 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, dated 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document, in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, it will be collected
in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6 of
the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the additional provision
fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
The firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/],
or through any of the other registers provided for in article 16.4 of the aforementioned
Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
This resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

