Date
2019-11-07

Results from the review of
list of law enforcement agencies
of treatments under the Criminal Data Act
Summary of the result
The Data Inspectorate has examined seven authorities that are required to keep one
list of the categories of personal data processing that they
responsible for according to the Criminal Data Act.
The result from the review is generally positive. At the same time it has
there were some shortcomings in all the audited authorities. The shortcomings have led to
that the Data Inspectorate has instructed or recommended the authorities to take
measures.
Background to the review
According to ch. 3, law enforcement authorities shall Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance
keep a list of the categories of personal data processing
for which they are responsible under the Criminal Data Act.
The Data Inspectorate has examined that list of seven law enforcement officers
authorities: the Police Authority, the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, the Coast Guard,
The Swedish Environmental Crime Agency, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs.
A complete and well-designed list is important to it
the internal work of the law enforcement agency to ensure that
follows the rules of the Criminal Data Act.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Phone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

2 (3)

A list of treatments needs to be reviewed on an ongoing basis as needed
the conditions of a business change.
There is also an obligation to keep a register of treatment under Article
30 Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This obligation has not been a part of
the review.
Report on the result
The authorities included in the audit for a list according to
the Criminal Data Regulation. For all audited authorities have
The Data Inspectorate has found that certain information that must appear in
the list was either missing or indistinctly indicated.
When information was missing, the Data Inspectorate either instructed the authority to
indicate in their list of treatments the missing information or
recommended the authority to make an assessment of whether it is possible to
enter the details. The recommendations are intended to indicate deadlines for
how long the categories of personal data may be processed.
As information has been entered in an unclear manner, the Data Inspectorate has submitted
the authority to clarify or specify the task. The information has
either confused in the list of treatments or been for
oprecisa.
The result of the review


The police authority
o Instructions to enter missing information
o Recommendation to indicate missing information



The Prison and Probation Service
o Instructions to enter missing information
o Instructions to clarify information



The Coast Guard
o Order to enter missing information
o Order to clarify information

3 (3)



The Economic Crime Authority
o Instructions to clarify information



The Public Prosecutor's Office
o Order to enter missing information
o Order to specify information



The Swedish Tax Agency
o Instructions to specify information



The Swedish Customs
o Order to clarify information
o Instructions to enter missing information
o Recommendation to indicate missing information

The more detailed assessments are stated in the respective supervisory decisions that have
published on the Data Inspectorate's website.

