Decision

Diary no

2019-04-03

DI-2018-19918
Your diary no
A528.572/2018

The police authority
Legal Department
The Unit for Legal Governance and Support
Box 122 56
102 26 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Crime Data Act (2018:1177) The police authority's list of
treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1.

The Data Inspectorate states that the Police Authority's list of
treatments, for certain categories of treatments, information is missing
on the categories of officials who have access to the personal data that is processed and the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed in accordance with ch. 3. Section 3 3 and 4 of the Criminal Data Ordinance (2018:1202).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The police authority that in the list of treatments, for each
category of treatment, indicate the categories of officials who have
access to the personal data processed and the categories of
recipients to whom the data may be disclosed, at the latest
on 31 October 2019.

2. The police authority is ordered to submit a
written report to the Data Inspectorate of the measures which
The police authority has taken due to the injunction in
point 1.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-19918

Miscellaneous
In addition to what appears in points 1-2, the Data Inspection Authority leaves
recommendations, according to ch. 5 7 § 1 of the Criminal Data Act, to the Police Authority
applicable deadlines for how long the categories of personal data receive
processed according to ch. 3 3 § 9 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 17 October 2018, the Data Inspectorate started supervision of the Swedish Police Agency
for the purpose of reviewing the Police Authority's list of treatments of
personal data comply with ch. 3 Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
The police authority has essentially stated the following. The police authority has chosen
to divide the list into two parts: one for supported treatments
of the data protection regulation1 and one for treatments carried out with the support of
the crime data act. The two parts consist of two separate tabs in an Excel file. The list also contains a tab with general information about personal data responsibility and contact details for the data protection officer. In addition to the list, the Police Authority has additional documentation about each personal data processing. However, the documentation is not considered part of
the list.
When creating the Police Authority's list of treatments
the data was migrated from the personal data representative's list. Associated
with it, some obsolete treatments and duplicates were removed. It was done
also an overall quality assurance of the applicable law, taking into account among
other, the Criminal Data Act's extended scope of application compared to the Police Data Act (2010:361).
As regards the columns “officials with access” and “categories of
recipient" these have been reviewed so that the correct information is in the correct column. The
however, are many lines that still lack information. This information

1

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of
such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).

2 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-19918

can be found in the underlying documentation "Notice to PUO's
list".
As for the "deadlines" column, no work has yet started.
The police authority has assessed that the information contained in the old
the notifications are not good enough for it to be possible to update
the list to a greater extent than has been done so far. Instead, one should
major work is initiated to update all older notifications and replace them
with new ones.
In its review of the Police Authority's list, the Data Inspectorate has
over treatments mainly observed the following. The police authority
list of treatments contains the following columns.
- Name,
- legal basis,
- responsible for the processing,
- purpose,
- categories of officials with access,
- categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed
to,
- categories of registered and personal data,
- collection of transfers to third countries,
- use of profiling,
- deadlines for how long the categories of personal data may be processed
and
- general description of security measures.

Justification of the decision
What the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to decide on
In the supervisory matter, the Data Inspectorate has to take a position on whether the Police Authority's list of processing meets the requirements ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The inspection only concerns the list that the Police Authority keeps
according to the Criminal Data Act.

3 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-19918

Applicable regulations
On August 1, 2018, the Criminal Data Act entered into force with supplementary
provisions of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Criminal Data Act applies
according to ch. 1 Section 2 for the processing of personal data carried out for the purpose of
prevent, prevent or detect criminal activity, investigate or prosecute
crime or enforce criminal penalties. It also applies to treatment
of personal data carried out for the purpose of maintaining public order and
security. For the Police Authority, in addition to the Criminal Data Act, since
on 1 January 2019 also the law (2018:1693) on the police's processing of personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act (the Police Criminal Data Act) with
supplementary provisions in the regulation (2018:1942) on the police
processing of personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act. In that
the Police Crime Data Act came into force, the Police Data Act ceased to apply.
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, the personal data controller must keep
a list of the categories of processing of personal data which
he is responsible for. The list must contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller, joint personal data controller and data protection officer. The list must also, for each
category of treatment, contain the following information:
1. the legal basis for the processing,
2. the purposes of the processing,
3. the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated,
4. the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed,
also in third countries or international organizations,
5. the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
6. the categories of personal data that may be processed,
7. collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
8. use of profiling,
9. if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of
personal data may be processed, and
10. if possible, a general description of which security measures are
has been taken.
According to ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act allows the Data Inspectorate to use the corrective powers if it is established that personal data is being processed in violation

4 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-19918

by law or other constitution or that the person in charge of personal data or
the personal data processor does not fulfill its obligations in any other way.
The police authority's list of treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Protection Authority states that the Police Authority's list of processing, for certain categories of processing, lacks information on the categories of civil servants who have access to the personal data being processed
and the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
The police authority for a list according to ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance
over the categories of processing of personal data by the authority
responsible for according to the Criminal Data Act. For each category of treatment it must
according to the provision, certain enumerated information is specified (items 1-10).
The police authority's list of treatments is contained in separate
columns the points listed in the provision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has
no comments regarding points 1-2, 5-8 and 10.
The columns to indicate the categories of officials who have access to them
personal data that is processed (point 3) and the categories of recipients
to whom the information may be disclosed (item 4) lacks information
for certain categories of treatments. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore notes that
The police authority's list of treatments, for certain categories of
treatments, missing information according to ch. 3 3 Section 3 and 4 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. Due to this, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has found reasons to
use the corrective powers in ch. 5. Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act, the Police Authority that in the list of treatments, for each category of treatment,
indicate the categories of officials who have access to the personal data that
processed and the categories of recipients to whom the data may reach
released to.
The column for deadlines for how long the categories of personal data get
treated is, for each category of treatment, empty. According to ch. 3 3 § 9 criminal

5 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-19918

the data regulation, if possible, deadlines must be specified. The police authority has indicated that a major effort is to be initiated to update everyone
older notifications to the previous list and replace them with new ones.
The Data Inspectorate states that the Police Authority's list of
treatments lack information about deadlines according to ch. 3. 3 § 9 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. According to ch. 5, the Swedish Data Protection Authority may 7 § 1 of the Criminal Data Act through
advice, recommendations or remarks (as stated in chapter 5, section 6, first
paragraph of the same Act) try to persuade the Police Authority to take measures. The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that it is currently sufficient to recommend the Swedish Police Agency to make an assessment of whether it is possible to specify deadlines in
the list of treatments.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Maria Andersson.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg

Maria Andersson

Copy to:
The Security and Privacy Protection Board

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from it
day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

6 (6)

