Decision

Diary no

2019-06-24

DI-2019-1784
Your diary no
EBM2019-157

The Ecocrime Authority
Box 22098
104 22 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
The Ecocrime Authority's list of
treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1.

The Data Inspectorate states that the Ecocrime Authority's list
across treatments, for each category of treatment, they state
categories of data subjects affected by the processing according to
3 ch. 3 § 5 of the Criminal Data Ordinance (2018:1202) in an unclear manner.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Ecocrime Authority that in the list of treatments, for each
category of processing, indicate the categories of data subjects affected
of the processing in the manner specified in the justification for this decision,
no later than 31 December 2019.

2. The Data Inspectorate notes that the Ecocrime Authority's list
across treatments, for each category of treatment, they state
categories of personal data that may be processed
according to ch. 3 3 § 6 of the Criminal Data Ordinance in an unclear manner.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Ecocrime Authority that in the list of treatments, for each
category of processing, specify the categories of personal data that
may be processed in the manner stated in the justification to
this decision, no later than 31 December 2019.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

3. The Ecocrimes Authority is ordered to by 31 December 2019 at the latest
submit a written report to the Swedish Data Protection Authority of the measures
which the Ecocrime Authority has taken in connection with
the orders in paragraphs 1-2.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 11 February 2019, the Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision of
The Ecocrime Authority for the purpose of reviewing the Ecocrime Authority's
list of processing of personal data is in accordance
with 3 ch. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has visited within the framework of the supervisory matter
The Ecocrime Agency on 14 March 2019. The Ecocrime Agency has at
the inspection presented the list of treatments. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
has reviewed certain selected categories of treatments in the inspection
the list of treatments. The selection consisted of central systems i
The activities of the Ecocrime Agency and a number of randomly selected ones
categories of treatments. The Ecocrime Authority has been given the opportunity to comment
themselves over the inspection protocol drawn up in connection with
the inspection occasion. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has also asked questions 0m
The Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments.
The Ecocrime Authority has essentially stated the following. There are three choices of
Categories of registered (F): External party, Employees at EBM and
Contractor at EBM. External parties are parties outside the authority.
There are five choices of Categories of Personal Data (G): Name,
Social security number, Contact details, Image/film where the person can be identified and
Other personal data. Other personal data can be, for example, financial data
which can be linked to a specific person. Sensitive personal data is processed in
normally not per se in the Ecocrime Authority's operations. If sensitive
personal data is present, then it is a matter of data provided in a
report, interrogation or similar context. If it can come to
processed means that every category of personal data that in theory can
to be treated within the framework of a category of treatment would
the category "Sensitive personal data" must be specified for each category of
treatment included in the authority's list.

2 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

The Ecocrime Authority has not found any category of treatment there
transfer to third countries takes place. In such cases, it would be stated under Categories
of recipient (E).
If a box/field is empty, it means that it does not exist or is not
applicable to that category of treatment.
In its review of the Ecocrime Authority, the Data Inspectorate has
list of treatments observed mainly the following.
The list of treatments is structured around nine different ones
datasets which are as follows.
A. Category of treatment,
B. Legal Basis for Processing,
C. Purpose of treatment,
D. Categories of Officials,
E. Categories of Recipients,
F. Categories of data subjects,
G. Categories of personal data,
H. Time limit for processing as well as
I. Security Measures.
Each category of processing contains information about the use of profiling.

Justification of the decision
What the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to decide on
In the supervisory matter, the Data Inspection Authority has to take a position on
The Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments meets the requirements of
3 ch. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The inspectorate has chosen to limit supervision
by selecting certain categories of treatments in the list for particular
examination.
Applicable regulations
On August 1, 2018, the Criminal Data Act entered into force with supplementary
provisions of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Criminal Data Act applies
according to ch. 1 Section 2 for the processing of personal data carried out for the purpose of
prevent, prevent or detect criminal activity, investigate or prosecute

3 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

crime or enforce criminal penalties. It also applies to treatment
of personal data carried out for the purpose of maintaining public order and
security. For the Ecocrime Authority, in addition to the Crime Data Act, since
on 1 January 2019 also the Act (2018:1697) on the prosecution's treatment of
personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act and the Act (2018:1693) on
the police's processing of personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act.
Supplementary regulations can be found in the regulation (2018:1738) on
the prosecution's processing of personal data within the Criminal Data Act
area and in the regulation (2018:1942) on the police's treatment of
personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act.
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, the personal data controller must keep
a list of the categories of processing of personal data which
he is responsible for. The list must contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller, jointly personal data controllers
and data protection officer. The list must also, for each category of
treatment, contain the following information:
1. the legal basis for the processing,
2. the purposes of the processing,
3. the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated,
4. the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed,
also in third countries or international organizations,
5. the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
6. the categories of personal data that may be processed,
7. collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
8. use of profiling,
9. if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of
personal data may be processed, and
10. if possible, a general description of which security measures are
has been taken.
According to ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act allows the Data Inspectorate to use the corrective powers if it is established that personal data is being processed in violation
by law or other constitution or that the person in charge of personal data or
the personal data processor does not fulfill its obligations in any other way.

4 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

The Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments
The Ecocrime Authority for a list according to ch. 3. Section 3
the criminal data regulation on the categories of processing of personal data
for which the authority is responsible according to the Criminal Data Act. For each category of
treatment, according to the provision, certain enumerated information must be stated
(items 1-10). The Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments
contains for each category of treatment points 1-6 and 8-10.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not have any views regarding points 1-4 as well
7-10. Collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations (item 7) are not listed as a separate column
in the Ecocrime Agency's list of treatments. According to the preparatory work
to the Criminal Data Act takes ch. 3. 3 § 7 of the criminal data regulation aimed at certain
transfers that have been made to third countries or international organisations
(see SOU 2017:29 p. 323 and p. 621-624). The Swedish Data Protection Authority assumes that such
transfers, if they occur, will be listed in the Ecocrime Authority
list of treatments.
Point 5 – the categories of data subjects affected by the processing
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Ecocrime Authority's list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, indicate the categories of
data subjects who are affected by the processing in an unclear way.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 § 3 § 5 of the criminal data regulation must a list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, contain information about them
categories of data subjects affected by the processing.
In the Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments, the categories are specified
of data subjects affected by the processing, for each category of processing,
either as "External party", "Employees at EBM" and "Contractor at
EBM”. The Ecocrime Authority has stated that "External party" is outside parties
the authority.
It appears from the preparatory work for the Criminal Data Act that categories of registered persons can
be a group of people who have a specific role, e.g. suspects,
plaintiffs, witnesses or relatives of any of these (see SOU 2017:29 p. 322).

5 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

The Data Inspectorate considers, on the basis of what appears from the preparatory work, that
it is not enough to simply state "External party". The inspection notes
because the Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments, for each
category of processing, indicates the categories of data subjects affected by
the treatment in an unclear way. The inspectorate has due to this
found reason to use the corrective powers in ch. 5. Section 7
the crime data act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Ecocrime Authority that in the list of treatments, for each
category of treatment, clarify the categories of data subjects affected by
the treatment. Guidance on how categories of registered persons can be listed is given in
the operator statements given above.
Point 6 – the categories of personal data that may be processed
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Ecocrime Authority's list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, indicate the categories of
personal data that may be processed in an unclear manner.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 § 3 § 6 of the criminal data regulation must a list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, contain information about them
categories of personal data that may be processed.
In the Ecocrime Authority's list of treatments, sensitive is not specified
personal data as a category of personal data that may be
treated. The Ecocrime Authority has stated that if sensitive
personal data is present, then it is a matter of data provided in a
report, interrogation or similar context.
From the preparatory work for the crime data act, it appears that when it comes to categories of
personal data, it is primarily the presence of sensitive personal data that
is intended (see SOU 2017:29 p. 322). In the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act, none is given
guidance on how the wording may be treated in ch. 3. 3 § 6
the crime data regulation must be understood and the Swedish Data Protection Authority understands
The Ecocrime Authority's reasoning that an overly broad interpretation means that
"Sensitive personal data" as a category of personal data may need to be specified

6 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

for each category of treatment. At the same time, ch. 3 can 3 § 6
According to the Data Inspectorate's opinion, the criminal data regulation cannot be interpreted
such way that sensitive personal data provided in a report, interrogation or
similar contexts not covered by ch. 3 3 § 6 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Due to what appears from the preparatory work, the Data Inspection Authority considers that
sensitive personal data need to be specified for each category of processing, for
in the event that the Ecocrime Authority deems that such information may come to light
treated. The Data Inspectorate notes that the Ecocrime Authority's
list of treatments, for each category of treatment, they indicate
categories of personal data that may be processed in an unclear manner
way. Because of this, the inspection has found reasons to use them
correcting the powers in ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Ecocrime Authority to indicate sensitive in the list of treatments
personal data as a category of personal data, for the categories of
treatments that the Ecocrime Authority deems sensitive
personal data may be processed.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Max Blidberg.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg

Max Blidberg

Copy to:
The Security and Privacy Protection Board

7 (8)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1784

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

8 (8)

