Decision

Diary no

2019-06-24

DI-2019-1785
Your diary no
ÅM2019-423

The Prosecutor's Office
Box 5553
114 85 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
The Prosecutor's Office's list of
treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1.

The Data Inspectorate states that the Public Prosecutor's Office's list
over treatments, the name and contact details for it are missing
personal data controller, joint personal data controller and
data protection officer according to ch. 3 Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance
(2018:1202).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The prosecutor's office to indicate in the list of treatments
the name and contact details of the personal data controller,
joint personal data controller and data protection officer, at the latest
on 31 December 2019.

2. The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Public Prosecutor's Office's list
over treatments, for each category of treatment, states the purposes
with the treatment according to ch. 3 3 § 2 of the criminal data regulation in one
unspecified way.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The prosecutor's office that in the list of treatments, for each
category of treatment, specify the purposes of the treatment accordingly
way stated in the justification for this decision, by 31 December at the latest
2019.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

3. The public prosecutor's office is ordered to leave by 31 December 2019 at the latest
a written report to the Swedish Data Protection Authority of the measures which
The public prosecutor's office has taken due to the orders in
points 1-2.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 11 February 2019, the Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision of
The Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of reviewing the Prosecutor's Office's list
over processing of personal data is in accordance with ch. 3. Section 3
the criminal data regulation.
In its review of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Data Inspectorate has
list of treatments observed mainly the following.
The list of treatments contains the following columns.
- the legal basis for the processing,
- the purposes of the processing,
- the categories of officials who have access to the personal data
which is processed,
- the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed
to, also in third countries or international organisations
- the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
- the categories of personal data that may be processed,
- collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
- use of profiling,
- if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of
personal data may be processed and
- general description of which security measures have been taken.

2 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

Justification of the decision
What the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to decide on
In the supervisory matter, the Data Inspection Authority has to take a position on
The Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments meets the requirements of
3 ch. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Applicable regulations
On August 1, 2018, the Criminal Data Act entered into force with supplementary
provisions of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Criminal Data Act applies
according to ch. 1 Section 2 for the processing of personal data carried out for the purpose of
prevent, prevent or detect criminal activity, investigate or prosecute
crime or enforce criminal penalties. It also applies to treatment
of personal data carried out for the purpose of maintaining public order and
security. For the Public Prosecutor's Office, in addition to the Criminal Data Act, since
on 1 January 2019 also the Act (2018:1697) on the prosecution's treatment of
personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act (prosecutor's
criminal data act) with supplementary provisions in the regulation (2018:1738)
on the prosecution's processing of personal data within the Criminal Data Act
area.
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, the personal data controller must keep
a list of the categories of processing of personal data which
he is responsible for. The list must contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller, joint personal data controller and data protection officer. The list must also, for each
category of treatment, contain the following information:
1. the legal basis for the processing,
2. the purposes of the processing,
3. the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated,
4. the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed,
also in third countries or international organizations,
5. the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
6. the categories of personal data that may be processed,
7. collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
8. use of profiling,

3 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

9. if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of
personal data may be processed, and
10. if possible, a general description of which security measures are
has been taken.
According to ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act allows the Data Inspectorate to use the corrective powers if it is established that personal data is being processed in violation
by law or other constitution or that the person in charge of personal data or
the personal data processor does not fulfill its obligations in any other way.
The Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments
The public prosecutor's office for a list according to ch. 3. Section 3
the criminal data regulation on the categories of processing of personal data
for which the authority is responsible according to the Criminal Data Act. For each category of
treatment, according to the provision, certain enumerated information must be stated
(items 1-10). The Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments
contains for each category of treatment points 1-10. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
does not have any views regarding points 1 and 3-10.
In the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments, collections of
transfers of personal data to third countries or international
organizations (point 7) for certain categories of treatments such as
"information that is disclosed in connection with an application from another state for
legal aid or warrant of arrest”. According to the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act
takes 3 ch. § 3 § 7 of the criminal data regulation aims at certain transfers that have
made to third countries or international organizations (see SOU 2017:29 p. 323
and pp. 621-624). The Swedish Data Protection Authority assumes that such transfers, if they
occurs, will be listed in the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of
treatments.
Contact details
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of
treatments lack the name and contact details of the personal data controller, joint personal data controller and data protection officer.

4 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
A list of treatments must according to ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance
contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller,
joint data controller and data protection officer.
The Data Inspectorate states that the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of
treatments lack the name and contact details of the personal data controller, joint personal data controller and data protection officer.
Because of this, the inspection has found reasons to use them
correcting the powers in ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The public prosecutor's office to indicate the name of in the list of treatments
and contact details for the personal data controller, jointly
personal data controllers and data protection officers.
Point 2 – the purposes of the processing
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, states the purposes of
the treatment in an unspecified manner.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 § 3 § 2 of the criminal data regulation, a list of processing, for each category of processing, must contain information about the purposes
with the treatment.
In the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments, the purposes are stated
the treatment, for each category of treatment, either as “1. prevent
or prevent criminal activity", "2. investigate or prosecute crimes",
"3. deal with matters of amendment or enforcement of criminal law
penalties", "4. handle matters relating to the maintenance of public order
and security" or "5. fulfill obligations arising from international
commitments”. Items 1-5 in the column "the purposes of the processing"
corresponds to the legal bases specified in ch. 2. § 1 of the prosecution service
crime data act. The provision in ch. 2 Section 1 of the prosecution's criminal data act is stated
in the column "the legal basis of the processing" for each category of
treatment, except one, in the Public Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments.

5 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

In ch. 3 Section 3 of the criminal data regulation makes a division between the legal
the basis for the processing (item 1) and the purposes of the processing
(item 2). In the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act, it is stated that the purposes of
the processing must be listed in the register that the authority must keep but that
it does not mean that the person in charge of personal data must list all of them
individual cases where the authority processes personal data. What is meant is them
types of purposes for which the authority processes personal data. As
examples are mentioned that the Police Authority processes personal data, i.a. in order to
receive reports of crime, carry out investigations, enforce
collection of fines and document interventions in the event of disturbances
(cf. prop. 2017/18:232 p. 121).
In the way that the Public Prosecutor's Office stated the "purposes of the processing" i
its list of treatments, for each category of treatment except one,
means that the same information is entered for the "purposes of the processing" as
for "the legal basis for the processing". The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers, with
reason for how ch. 3 Section 3 of the criminal data regulation is designed, that it is not
sufficient to indicate the same information under “the legal basis for
the processing” as for the “purposes of the processing” to fulfill the requirement
in ch. 3 3 § 2 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. In his review of
The Public Prosecutor's Office's list of treatments can the Data Inspectorate
nor see that the "purposes of the processing" have been specified for the category of
treatment named "Cåsa - Statistics system". Not stating the “purposes of
the treatment' for a category of treatment also does not meet the requirement i
3 ch. 3 § 2 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Against this background, the Data Inspectorate states that the Public Prosecutor's Office
list of treatments, for each category of treatment, indicates
the purposes of the processing in an unspecified manner. The inspection has included
reason for this found reason to use the corrective powers i
5 ch. Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The prosecutor's office that in the list of treatments, for each category
of treatment, specify the purposes of the treatment. Management for how
the purposes of a treatment can be listed given in the above
the preprocessing statements.

6 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-1785

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Max Blidberg.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg
Max Blidberg

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

7 (7)

