Decision

Diary no

2019-11-04

DI-2019-5558
Your diary no
204 219 727-19/113

Tax Agency
171 94 Solna

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
The Tax Agency's list of treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1.

The Data Inspectorate states that the Tax Agency's list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, indicates the legal
the basis for processing according to ch. 3 3 § 1 of the Criminal Data Ordinance
(2018:1202) in an unclear way.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Tax Agency that in the list of treatments, for each category
of processing, specify the legal basis for the processing in so
way stated in the justification for this decision, no later than April 30
2020.

2. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the Swedish Tax Agency's list of
treatments, for a category of treatment, indicates the categories of
registered persons who are affected by the processing according to ch. 3 3 § 5 of the criminal data regulation in an unclear manner.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
The Tax Agency that in the list of treatments, for each category
of processing, specify the categories of data subjects concerned
the processing in the manner specified in the justification for this decision,
no later than April 30, 2020.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

3. The Tax Agency is ordered to submit a written statement by 30 April 2020 at the latest
reporting to the Data Inspectorate of the measures taken by the Swedish Tax Agency
taken due to the orders in points 1-2.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 7 May 2019, the Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision of the Swedish Tax Agency with the aim of
review the Swedish Tax Agency's list of personal data processing
is in accordance with ch. 3 Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority visited the Swedish Tax Agency as part of the supervisory matter
14 June 2019. The Tax Agency has shown the list of
treatments. During the inspection, the Data Inspectorate has examined certain selected ones
categories of treatments in the list of treatments. The selection passed
of central systems in the Swedish Tax Agency's crime-fighting activities as well as one
number of randomly selected categories of treatments. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has
asked questions about the Swedish Tax Agency's list of treatments and the Swedish Tax Agency
has been given the opportunity to comment on the inspection protocol drawn up in
connection with the inspection occasion.
The Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things, stated the following. The column "legal basis for
treatment” will be reworked and specified. The Swedish Tax Agency will
review whether the writing "All" should be replaced or developed so that categories of
registered regarding a category of treatment is described more clearly.
A general description of security measures taken has been added to the header
on the list.
In its review of the Swedish Tax Agency's list of
treatments observed mainly the following. The list of
treatments include the following columns.
- Purpose,
- legal basis for processing,
- categories of registered,
- categories of personal data that may be processed,
- contains sensitive personal data,
- categories of sensitive personal data,
- category of recipient,
- transferred to a third country or international organization,

2 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

-

categories of officials who have access to the personal data that
treated,
use of profiling as well as
deadlines for processing personal data.

Furthermore, security measures taken are described in the head of the list
over treatments.

Justification of the decision
What the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to decide on
In the supervisory matter, the Data Inspectorate has to take a position on the Tax Agency's
list of treatments, meets the requirements in ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The inspectorate has chosen to limit supervision by selecting
certain categories of treatment in the list for special review.
Applicable regulations
On August 1, 2018, the Criminal Data Act entered into force with supplementary
provisions of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Criminal Data Act applies
according to ch. 1 Section 2 for the processing of personal data carried out for the purpose of
prevent, prevent or detect criminal activity, investigate or prosecute
crime or enforce criminal penalties. It also applies to treatment
of personal data carried out for the purpose of maintaining public order and
security. For the Swedish Tax Agency, in addition to the Criminal Data Act, it applies since 1 January
2019 also the law (2018:1696) on the Tax Agency's processing of personal data
within the area of the Criminal Data Act (Skatteverket's Criminal Data Act) with
supplementary provisions in the regulation (2018:1877) on the Tax Agency
processing of personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act.
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, the personal data controller must keep
a list of the categories of processing of personal data which
he is responsible for. The list must contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller, jointly personal data controllers
and data protection officer. The list must also, for each category of
treatment, contain the following information:
1. the legal basis for the processing,
2. the purposes of the processing,

3 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

3. the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated,
4. the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed,
also in third countries or international organizations,
5. the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
6. the categories of personal data that may be processed,
7. collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
8. use of profiling,
9. if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of personal data may be processed, and
10. if possible, a general description of which security measures are
has been taken.
According to ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act allows the Data Inspectorate to use the corrective powers if it is established that personal data is being processed in violation
by law or other constitution or that the person in charge of personal data or
the personal data processor does not fulfill its obligations in any other way.
The Tax Agency's list of treatments
The Tax Agency for a list according to ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance above
the categories of personal data processing for which the authority is responsible
for according to the Criminal Data Act. For each category of treatment, according to
the provision specifies certain enumerated information (items 1-10).
The Tax Agency's list of treatments contains for each category of
treatment points 1-10.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not have any views regarding points 2-4 as well
6-10. Collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations (item 7) are listed as a separate column i
The Tax Agency's list of treatments. According to the preparations for
The Criminal Data Act takes ch. 3. 3 § 7 of the criminal data regulation aimed at certain
transfers that have been made to third countries or international organisations
(see SOU 2017:29 p. 323 and p. 621-624). The Swedish Data Protection Authority assumes that such
transfers, if they occur, will be listed in the Tax Agency
list of treatments.

4 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

Point 1 – the legal basis for the processing
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Tax Agency's list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, indicates the legal basis for
the treatment in an unclear way.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 3 § 1 of the criminal data regulation must a list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, contain information about it
the legal basis for the processing.
In the Swedish Tax Agency's list of treatments, the legal basis for
the treatment, for each category of treatment, either with four SFS numbers or with reference to a provision in the law (1997:1024) on
the Tax Agency's law enforcement activities and certain regulations in
"SBDL". The Tax Agency has stated that the column "legal basis for processing"
will be reworked and specified.
In the preparatory work for the Criminal Data Act, it is stated that the legal basis is meant
the constitutional support for the treatment, i.e. the regulation of the work task
which causes the processing of personal data (see SOU 2017:29 p. 322).
The Data Inspectorate considers, on the basis of what appears from the preparatory work, that
it is not enough to only state the SFS number as the legal basis
for the treatment. It further appears that the references to
provisions of the "SBDL" in the column "legal basis for processing" do not apply
provisions in the Swedish Tax Agency's crime data act. The inspection notes against
this background that the Tax Agency's list of treatments, for each
category of processing, indicates the legal basis for the processing on one
unclear way. Because of this, the inspection has found reasons to use
the corrective powers in ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. § 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act Swedish Tax Agency
that in the list of treatments, for each category of treatment,
specify the legal basis for the processing.

5 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

Point 5 – the categories of data subjects affected by the processing
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate states that the Tax Agency's list of
treatments, for a category of treatment, indicates the categories of
data subjects who are affected by the processing in an unclear way.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 § 3 § 5 of the criminal data regulation must a list of
treatments, for each category of treatment, contain information about them
categories of data subjects affected by the processing.
It appears from the preparatory work for the Criminal Data Act that categories of registered persons can
be a group of people who have a specific role, e.g. suspects,
plaintiffs, witnesses or relatives of any of these (see SOU 2017:29 p. 322).
The Data Inspectorate considers, on the basis of what appears from the preparatory work, that
it is not sufficient to specify "All" as categories of registrants.
The inspection therefore states that the Tax Agency's list of
treatments, for a category of treatment, indicates the categories of
data subjects who are affected by the processing in an unclear way. The inspection has
due to this found reason to use the correctives
the powers in ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. § 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act Swedish Tax Agency
that in the list of treatments, for each category of treatment,
specify the categories of data subjects affected by the processing.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Max Blidberg.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg

Max Blidberg

6 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5558

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

7 (7)

