Decision

Diary no

2019-11-04

DI-2019-5560
Your diary no
VER 2019-776

Customs
Box 12854
112 98 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
Customs' list of treatments
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1.

The Data Inspectorate states that the Customs Agency's list of
treatments, for certain categories of treatments, indicate the categories
by officials who have access to the personal data being processed
according to ch. 3 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance (2018:1202) in an unclear manner
way.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
Customs that in the list of treatments, for each category of
processing, indicate the categories of officials who have access to them
personal data that is processed in the manner stated in the justification
to this decision, no later than 30 April 2020.

2. The Data Inspectorate notes that the Swedish Customs Agency's list of
treatments, for certain categories of treatments, information is missing
about the categories of personal data that may be processed
and collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations according to ch. 3 § 3 § 6 and 7
the criminal data regulation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act
Customs that in the list of treatments, for each category of
processing, specify the categories of personal data that may come
to be processed and information on collections of transfers of

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

personal data to third countries or international organizations,
no later than April 30, 2020.
3. Customs is ordered to submit a written statement by 30 April 2020 at the latest
report to the Swedish Data Protection Authority of the measures taken by the Swedish Customs Administration
taken due to the orders in points 1-2.

Miscellaneous
In addition to what appears in points 1-3, the Data Protection Authority leaves
recommendations, according to ch. 5 7 § 1 of the Criminal Data Act, to the Swedish Customs Administration in force
deadlines for how long the categories of personal data may be processed according to
3 ch. 3 § 9 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 7 May 2019, the Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision of the Swedish Customs Administration with the aim of
review whether the Swedish Customs Administration's list of processing of personal data is i
compliance with ch. 3 Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
In its review of the Swedish Customs Administration's list of
treatments observed mainly the following. The list of
treatments include the following columns.
- Legal basis,
- the purpose of the business with the processing of personal data,
- categories of civil servants with access to personal data processing,
- the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
- the categories of personal data that may be processed,
- sensitive personal data that may be processed,
- if the processing involves the use of "profiling",
- categories of recipients to whom the data in the processing may come
to be disclosed to,
- collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
- if possible, deadlines are specified here for how long personal data will be kept
treated as well

2 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

-

if possible, a general description of which security measures have
taken.

The Swedish Customs Service has essentially stated the following. In case a column has been selected
with "?" so this means that follow-up of the response that the business has provided
to take place. "-" symbolizes that the task is not relevant for current treatment.
In the event that the business has not provided any information for the person in question
treatment, the column has been left blank.

Justification of the decision
What the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to decide on
In the supervisory matter, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to take a position on the Swedish Customs Administration's
list of treatments, meets the requirements in ch. 3. Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Applicable regulations
On August 1, 2018, the Criminal Data Act entered into force with supplementary
provisions of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Criminal Data Act applies
according to ch. 1 Section 2 for the processing of personal data carried out for the purpose of
prevent, prevent or detect criminal activity, investigate or prosecute
crime or enforce criminal penalties. It also applies to treatment
of personal data carried out for the purpose of maintaining public order and
security. For the Swedish Customs Administration, in addition to the Criminal Data Act, since 1 January 2019
also the Act (2018:1694) on the Swedish Customs Administration's processing of personal data within
the area of the Criminal Data Act with supplementary provisions in the regulation
(2018:1876) on Customs' processing of personal data within the scope of the Criminal Data Act.
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, the personal data controller must keep
a list of the categories of processing of personal data which
he is responsible for. The list must contain the name and contact details of the personal data controller, joint personal data controller and data protection officer. The list must also, for each
category of treatment, contain the following information:
1. the legal basis for the processing,
2. the purposes of the processing,

3 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

3. the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated,
4. the categories of recipients to whom the data may be disclosed,
also in third countries or international organizations,
5. the categories of data subjects affected by the processing,
6. the categories of personal data that may be processed,
7. collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations,
8. use of profiling,
9. if possible, deadlines for how long the categories of
personal data may be processed, and
10. if possible, a general description of which security measures are
has been taken.
According to ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act allows the Data Inspectorate to use the corrective powers if it is established that personal data is being processed in violation
by law or other constitution or that the person in charge of personal data or
the personal data processor does not fulfill its obligations in any other way.
Customs' list of treatments
Customs for a list according to ch. 3. Section 3 of the criminal data regulation over the
categories of processing of personal data for which the authority is responsible
according to the Criminal Data Act. For each category of treatment, according to
the provision specifies certain enumerated information (items 1-10). Customs
list of treatments contains in separate columns those i
the provision enumerated the points. The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not have any
views regarding points 1-2, 4-5, 8 and 10.
Collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations (item 7) are listed as a separate column i
Customs' list of treatments. According to the preparations for
The Criminal Data Act takes ch. 3. 3 § 7 of the criminal data regulation aimed at certain
transfers that have been made to third countries or international organisations
(see SOU 2017:29 p. 323 and p. 621-624). The Swedish Data Protection Authority assumes that such
transfers, if they occur, will be listed in the Customs Office's list
over treatments.

4 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

Point 3 – categories of civil servants
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Customs Agency's list of processing,
for certain categories of treatments, specify the categories of officials who
has access to the personal data that is processed in an unclear manner.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
According to ch. 3 § 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, a list of processing, for each category of processing, must contain information about the categories
by officials who have access to the personal data being processed.
Information about which categories of civil servants have access to them
personal data that is processed facilitates both the internal and external
the control (cf. SOU 2017:29 p. 323). In the Customs Agency's list of
treatments are indicated, for certain categories of treatments, "Entitlement-controlled
based on tasks". The Swedish Data Protection Authority has no comments on
the writing, in the event that categories of civil servants can be linked, for example
an underlying document or that it can be linked in some other way
the writing to the categories of civil servants who have access to them
personal data that is processed. Information on categories of civil servants have
designed in varying ways for the categories of treatments that contain
the writing "Eligibility-based based on work tasks". It doesn't appear to be
clear to the Data Inspectorate that the writing can be linked to the categories of
officials who have access to the personal data being processed.
The inspection therefore states that the Customs Agency's list of
treatments, for certain categories of treatments, indicate the categories of
officials who have access to the personal data processed at a
unclear way. Because of this, the inspection has found reasons to use
the corrective powers in ch. 5 Section 7 of the Criminal Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act, the Customs Service to i
the list of treatments, for each category of treatment, clarify
the categories of officials who have access to the personal data which
treated.

5 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

Points 6, 7 and 9
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Customs Agency's list of processing,
for certain categories of treatments, missing information on the categories of
personal data that may be processed and collections of transfers
of personal data to third countries or international organizations.
The reasons for Datainspektionen's assessment are as follows
The columns to indicate the categories of personal data that may be accessed
processed (point 6) and collections of transfers of personal data to
third countries or international organizations (point 7) lack information
for certain categories of treatments. To state "?" or leave a column blank
does not meet the requirements in ch. 3 Section 3 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes against this background that the Customs Agency's list of
treatments, for certain categories of treatments, information is missing according to
3 ch. 3 Sections 6 and 7 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The inspection has due to
this found reason to use the corrective powers in ch. 5. Section 7
the crime data act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders according to ch. 5. 7 § 2 of the Criminal Data Act, the Customs Service to i
the list of treatments, for each category of treatment, enter them
categories of personal data that may be processed and information about
collections of transfers of personal data to third countries or
international organizations.
The column for deadlines for how long the categories of personal data get
treated is indicated, for certain categories of treatments, as ”?”. According to
3 ch. 3 Section 9 of the Criminal Data Ordinance, it must, if possible, be stated
deadlines. The customs office has indicated that "?" means that follow-up of the answer which
the business left must take place.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Customs Agency's list of processing,
for certain categories of treatments, there is no information on deadlines
according to ch. 3 3 § 9 of the Criminal Data Ordinance. The Swedish Data Protection Authority can
according to ch. 5 7 § 1 of the Criminal Data Act through advice, recommendations or
remarks (as stated in chapter 5, section 6, first paragraph of the same law) try to persuade
Customs to take action. The Swedish Data Protection Authority believes that it is currently
enough to recommend the Swedish Customs Service to make an assessment of whether it is

6 (7)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5560

possible to specify deadlines in the list of treatments for those categories
of treatments like ”?” specified for.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Max Blidberg.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg

Max Blidberg

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

7 (7)

