 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay between the 

application of Article 3 and the provisions on international 

transfers as per Chapter V of the GDPR 

Version 2.0 

Adopted on 14 February 2023 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

Version history 

 

 
 

Version 2.0 
Version 1.0 

14 02 2023 
18 11 2021 

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 
Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

The GDPR does not provide for a legal definition of the notion “transfer of personal data to a third 
country or to an international organisation”. Therefore, the EDPB provides these guidelines to clarify 
the scenarios to which it considers that the requirements of Chapter V should be applied and, to that 
end, it has identified three cumulative criteria to qualify a processing operation as a transfer: 

1)  A controller or a processor (“exporter”) is subject to the GDPR for the given processing. 
2)  The  exporter  discloses  by  transmission  or  otherwise  makes  personal  data,  subject  to  this 

processing, available to another controller, joint controller or processor (“importer”). 

3)  The importer is in a third country, irrespective of whether or not this importer is subject to the 
GDPR for the given processing in accordance with Article 3, or is an international organisation. 

If the three criteria as identified by the EDPB are met, there is a transfer and Chapter V of the GDPR is 
applicable. This means that the transfer can only take place under certain conditions, such as in the 
context  of  an  adequacy  decision  from  the  European  Commission  (Article  45)  or  by  providing 
appropriate  safeguards  (Article  46).  The  provisions  of  Chapter  V  aim  at  ensuring  the  continued 
protection of personal data after they have been transferred to a third country or to an international 
organisation. 

Conversely, if the three criteria are not met, there is no transfer and Chapter V of the GDPR does not 
apply. In this context, it is however important to recall that the controller must nevertheless comply 
with  the  other  provisions  of  the  GDPR  and  remains  fully  accountable  for  its  processing  activities, 
regardless of where they take place. Indeed, although a certain data transmission may not qualify as a 
transfer according to Chapter V, such processing can still be associated with increased risks since it 
takes  place  outside  the  EU,  for  example  due  to  conflicting  national  laws  or  disproportionate 
government access in the third country. These risks need to be considered when  taking measures 
under,  inter  alia,  Article  5  (“Principles  relating  to  processing  of  personal  data”),  Article  24 
(“Responsibility  of  the  controller”)  and  Article  32  (“Security  of  processing”)  –  in  order  for  such 
processing operation to be lawful under the GDPR. 

These guidelines include various examples of data flows to third countries, which are also illustrated 
in an Annex in order to provide further practical guidance. 

 

Adopted 

 

3 

Table of contents 

Executive summary ................................................................................................................................ 3 
1 
Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 5 
2 
Criteria to qualify a processing operation as a transfer of personal data to a third country or to 
an international organisation ................................................................................................................. 6 
A controller or a processor (“exporter”) is subject to the GDPR for the given processing ..... 7 
The exporter discloses by transmission or otherwise makes personal data, subject to this 

2.1 
2.2 
processing, available to another controller, joint controller or processor (“importer”)..................... 8 
2.3 
The importer is in a third country, irrespective of whether or not this importer is subject to 
the GDPR for the given processing in accordance with Article 3, or is an international 
organisation.......................................................................................................................................11 
Consequences in case a transfer of personal data takes place ..................................................... 13 
Safeguards to be provided if personal data are processed outside the EEA but no transfer takes 

3 
4 
place ..................................................................................................................................................... 15 
Annex: Illustrations of Examples 1–12 ................................................................................................. 17 
 

 
 

 

 

Adopted 

 

4 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter 
the “GDPR” or “Regulation”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES: 

1 

INTRODUCTION 

 

 

 

According to Article 44 of  the GDPR,2 the conditions laid down in its Chapter V shall apply to any 
“transfer  of  personal  data  which  are  undergoing  processing  or  are  intended  for  processing  after 
transfer to a third country or to an international organisation”.3 The overarching purpose of Chapter V 
is to ensure that the level of protection guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined when personal 
data are transferred “to third countries or to international organisations”.4   

The provisions of Chapter V therefore aim at ensuring the continued protection of personal data after 
they have been transferred to a third country or to an international organisation. When personal data 
is processed in the EU, it is protected not only by the rules in the GDPR but also by other rules, both at 
EU and Member State level, that must be in line with the GDPR (including possible derogations therein) 
and ultimately  with  the  EU  Charter  on  Fundamental  Rights  and  Freedoms.  When  personal  data  is 
transmitted or made available to entities outside the EU territory or to international organisations, the 
level of protection of individuals’ rights and freedoms is likely not to be essentially equivalent to the 
one afforded by the the overarching legal framework provided within the Union.  

Continuity of protection can be ensured in different ways, such as by the legal framework of a third 
country  or  international  organisation  that  benefits  from  an  adequacy  decision  from  the  European 
Commission (Article 45) or by an instrument between the data exporter and importer providing for 

                                                             
1 References to “EU” and “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references 
to “EEA” and “EEA Member States” respectively. 
2 “Any transfer of personal data which are undergoing processing or are intended for processing after transfer to 
a third country or to an international organisation shall take place only if, subject to the other provisions of this 
Regulation, the conditions laid down in this Chapter are complied with by the controller and processor, including 
for onward transfers of personal data from the third country or an international organisation to another third 
country or to another international organisation.” 
3 “International organisation” means an organisation and its subordinate bodies governed by public international 
law, or any other body which is set up by, or on the basis of, an agreement between two or more countries. 
4 Besides Recital 101, this is particularly emphasized by Article 44, sentence 2 which reads: “All provisions in this 
Chapter shall be applied in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by this 
Regulation is not undermined.” 

Adopted 

 

5 

appropriate safeguards (Article 46).5 When relying on one of the transfer instruments listed in Article 
46 GDPR, it must be assessed whether they ensure a level of protection of the transferred data that is 
essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU or whether supplementary measures need to 
be implemented.6  

  Where a controller or processor transfers data to an importer in a third country whose processing falls 
under Article 3(2) of the GDPR, the protection provided by the GDPR may similarly be undermined by 
the legal framework that applies to the importer. This may for example be the case where the third 
country  has  rules  on  government  access  to  personal  data  that  go  beyond  what  is  necessary  and 
proportionate in a democratic society (to safeguard one of the important objectives as also recognised 
in Union or Member States’ law, such as those listed in Article 23(1) GDPR). The provisions in Chapter 
V are there to compensate for this risk and to complement the territorial scope of the GDPR as defined 
by Article 3.   

 

 

 

The following sections aim at clarifying this interplay between Article 3 and the provisions of the GDPR 
on  international  transfers  in  Chapter  V.  The  purpose  is  to  assist  controllers  and  processors  with 
identifying  whether  a  processing  operation  constitutes  a  transfer  to  a  third  country  or  to  an 
international organisation and, as a result, whether they have to comply with the provisions of Chapter 
V of the GDPR. This clarification is also important for the consistent interpretation and application of 
the GDPR by the supervisory authorities. 

In any event, and as explained in more detail in Section 4, it is important to keep in mind that although 
a certain data flow subject to Article 3 may not always constitute a transfer under Chapter V, the 
processing of data outside the EU can still be associated with increased risks for which safeguards must 
be  envisaged.  Regardless  of  whether  the  processing  takes  place  in  the  EU  or  not,  controllers  and 
processors  subject  to  the  GDPR  for  a  given  processing  always  have  to  comply  with  all  relevant 
provisions of the GDPR, such as the Article 32 obligation to implement technical and organisational 
measures taking into account, inter alia, the risks with respect to the processing. 

2  CRITERIA TO QUALIFY A PROCESSING OPERATION AS A TRANSFER 

OF PERSONAL DATA TO A THIRD COUNTRY OR TO AN 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION 

The GDPR does not provide for a legal definition of the notion “transfer of personal data to a third 
country or to an international organisation”7 and relevant case law is limited.8 The lack of definition of 
transfer in the GDPR leads to legal uncertainty about the precise scope of the obligations deriving from 
                                                             
5  When  the  continuity  of  protection  cannot  be  ensured  by  the  transfer  instrument  used,  for  example  if  an 
adequacy decision under Article 45 is revoked, a certification mechanism under Article 46(2)(f) is no longer valid 
or adopted supplementary measures are not/no longer effective, measures must be taken in order to avoid that 
the level of protection is undermined and to ensure that the processing in question is lawful, e.g. another transfer 
tool and/or effective supplementary measures must be put in place. 
6 See EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with 
the  EU  level  of  protection  of  personal  data,  EDPB  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential 
Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures  and  CJEU  judgment  of  16  July  2020,  Data  Protection  Commissioner  v 
Facebook Ireland Ltd, Maximillian Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559. 
7 Article 44, sentence 1. 
8 Such as the CJEU Judgment of 6 November 2003, Bodil Lindqvist, C-101/01, EU:C:2003:596 according to which 
a transfer is a processing operation and there is no transfer to a third country, under the former Directive 95/46, 
where data is published on a website stored with a hosting provider established in the EU. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter V and the interplay between Article 3 and Chapter V. It is therefore essential to clarify this 
notion. 

Considering that the EDPB, according to Article 70(1)(b) GDPR, has the task to advise the European 
Commission on any issue related to the protection of personal data in the Union, including on any 
aspects  of  the  Regulation  that  it  considers  to  require  further  clarification,  the  EDPB  invites  the 
European Commission to pay particular attention to this issue in the context of  the report on the 
evaluation and review of the GDPR as per Article 97. 

In any event, considering that Article 70(1)(e) GDPR sets forth the task for the EDPB to issue guidelines, 
recommendations and best practices in order to encourage consistent application of this Regulation, 
the EDPB provides this guidance to clarify the scenarios to which it considers that the requirements of 
Chapter V should be applied. To that end, it has identified the following three cumulative criteria to 
qualify a processing operation as a transfer:  

1)  A controller or a processor (“exporter”) is subject to the GDPR for the given processing. 
2)  The  exporter  discloses  by  transmission  or  otherwise  makes  personal  data,  subject  to  this 

processing, available to another controller, joint controller or processor (“importer”). 

3)  The importer is in a third country, irrespective of whether or not this importer is subject to the 
GDPR for the given processing in accordance with Article 3, or is an international organisation. 

In this respect, it is important to recall that, pursuant to Article 3, whether or not the GDPR applies 
must always be assessed in relation to a certain processing operation rather than with regard to a 
specific entity (e.g. a company).9  

The  EDPB  also  recalls  that  the  application  of  the  GDPR  is  without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of 
international  law,  such  as  the  ones  governing  the  privileges  and  immunities  of  non-EU  diplomatic 
missions  and  consular  posts,  as  well  as  international  organisations  (regardless  of  where  they  are 
located).10 

2.1  A controller or a processor (“exporter”) is subject to the GDPR for the given 

processing  

The first criterion requires that the processing at stake meets the requirements of Article 3 GDPR, i.e. 
that a controller or processor is subject to the GDPR for the given processing. This has been further 
elaborated on in the EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3).  

It is worth underlining that controllers and processors, which are not established in the EU, may be 
subject to the GDPR pursuant to Article 3(2) for a given processing and, thus, will have to comply with 
Chapter V when transferring personal data to a controller or processor in the same or another third 
country or to an international organisation, taking into account that the obligations under the GDPR 
are not different for controllers/processors established in the EU and controllers/processors outside 
the EU whose processing falls under Article 3(2). 

                                                             
9 See page 5 and Sections 1–3 of the EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3). 
10 Idem, see page 23. 

Adopted 

 

7 

 

 

 

It can also be noted that the GDPR, including Chapter V, applies to personal data processing carried 
out by EU Member States’ embassies and consulates located outside the EU as such processing falls 
within the scope of the GDPR by virtue of Article 3(3).11 

2.2  The exporter discloses by transmission or otherwise makes personal data, 

subject to this processing, available to another controller, joint controller or 
processor (“importer”) 

The second criterion requires that the exporter discloses data by transmission or otherwise makes it 
available  to  another  controller  or  processor.  The  concepts  of  controller  and  processor  have  been 
further  clarified  in  the  EDPB  Guidelines  07/2020.  It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  concepts  of 
controller,  joint  controller  and  processor  are  functional  concepts  in  that  they  aim  to  allocate 
responsibilities according to the actual roles of the parties and autonomous concepts in the sense that 
they should be interpreted mainly according to EU data protection law. A case-by-case analysis of the 
processing at stake and the roles of the actors involved is necessary.12  

Some examples of how personal data could be “made available” are by creating an account, granting 
access rights to an existing account, “confirming”/”accepting” an effective request for remote access, 
embedding a hard drive or submitting a password to a file. It should be kept in mind that remote access 
from a third country (even if it takes place only by means of displaying personal data on a screen, for 
example in support situations, troubleshooting or for administration purposes) and/or storage in a 
cloud  situated  outside  the  EEA  offered  by  a  service  provider,  is  also  considered  to  be  a  transfer, 
provided that the three criteria outlined in paragraph 9 above are met.13   

  Conversely, Chapter V does not apply  to “internal processing”, i.e. where data is not disclosed by 
transmission or otherwise made available to another controller or processor, including where such 
processing takes place outside the EU.14 In this case, the controller or processor remains responsible 
for the processing, including to ensure compliance with all relevant provisions and safeguards of the 
GDPR which directly applies (see also Section 4 below), e.g. the EEA supervisory authorities can enforce 
the GDPR against these entities and data subjects can obtain redress in case of a violation of their 
rights. 

 

In  addition,  this  second  criterion  cannot  be  considered  as  fulfilled  when  there  is  no  controller  or 
processor sending or making the data available (i.e. no “exporter”) to another controller or processor, 
such as when data are disclosed directly by the data subject15 to the recipient. 

                                                             
11 Idem, see page 22. 
12 See page 9 of the EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR. 
13 See EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with 
the EU level of protection of personal data, page 11, paragraph 13 and footnote 28. 
14  This  is  also  reflected  in  the  approach  of  Article  46  GDPR,  which  refers  to  contractual/bilateral  transfer 
instruments concluded between different entities acting as controllers or processors. 
15 The data subject cannot be considered a controller or processor. This follows from Article 4(10) GDPR which 
differentiates  between  controller/processor  and  data  subject.  Hence,  a  data  subject  disclosing  his/her  own 
personal data cannot be considered an “exporter”. This is without prejudice to the fact that a natural person can 
be  a  controller/processor  in  accordance  with  Article  4(7)  and  4(8)  GDPR  (e.g.  as  a  self-employed  person). 
However, this does not limit the protection that natural persons acting as a controller/processor enjoy where 
their own personal data are concerned. In addition, it is important to recall that where the processing of personal 
data is carried out “by a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity”, such processing 
will, in accordance with Article 2(2)(c), fall outside the material scope of the GDPR. Finally, it should be noted 

Adopted 

 

8 

Example 1: Controller in a third country collects data directly from a data subject in the EU (under 
Article 3(2) GDPR)  
Maria, living in Italy, inserts her name, surname and postal address by filling in a form on an online 
clothing  website  in  order  to  complete  her  order  and  receive  the  dress  she  bought  online  at  her 
residence in Rome. The online clothing website is operated by a third country company that has no 
presence in the EU, but specifically targets the EU market. In this case, the data subject (Maria) passes 
her personal data to the third country company. This does not constitute a transfer of personal data 
since the data are not passed by an exporter (controller or processor), but directly collected from the 
data subject by the controller under Article 3(2) GDPR. Thus, Chapter V does not apply to this case. 
Nevertheless,  the  third  country  company  will  be  required  to  apply  the  GDPR  since  its  processing 
operations are subject to Article 3(2).16    

 

Example 2: Controller in a third country collects data directly from a data subject in the EU (under 
Article 3(2) GDPR) and uses a processor outside the EU for some processing activities 
Maria, living in Italy, inserts her name, surname and postal address by filling in a form on an online 
clothing  website  in  order  to  complete  her  order  and  receive  the  dress  she  bought  online  at  her 
residence in Rome. The online clothing website is operated by a third country company that has no 
presence in the EU, but specifically targets the EU market. In order to process the orders received by 
means of the website, the third country company has engaged a non-EEA processor. In this case, the 
data  subject  (Maria)  passes  her  personal  data  to  the  third  country  company  and  this  does  not 
constitute a  transfer of personal data since  the data are directly collected by the controller under 
Article 3(2) GDPR. Thus, the controller will have to apply the GDPR to the processing of this personal 
data. As far as it engages a non-EEA processor, such disclosure from the third country company to its 
non-EEA processor would amount to a transfer, and it will be required to apply Article 28 and Chapter 
V  obligations  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  level  of  protection  afforded  by  the  GDPR  would  not  be 
undermined when data are processed on its behalf by the non-EEA-processor.17 

 

Example 3: Controller in a third country receives data directly from a data subject in the EU (but not 
under Article 3(2) GDPR) and uses a processor outside the EU for some processing activities 
Maria, living in Italy, decides to book a room in a hotel in New York using a form on the hotel website. 
Personal data are collected directly by the hotel which does not target/monitor individuals in the EEA. 
In this case, no transfer takes place since data are passed directly by the data subject and directly 
collected by the controller. Also, since no targeting or monitoring activities of individuals in the EEA 
are taking place by the hotel, the GDPR will not apply, including with regard to any processing activities 
carried out by non-EEA processors on behalf of the hotel.    

                                                             
that personal data disclosed via cookies are not considered as being disclosed directly by the data subject, but 
rather as a transmission by the operator of the website that the data subject is visiting. 
16 In this regard, see Recital 23, which includes elements to be assessed when determining whether the targeting 
criterion in Article 3(2)(a) GDPR is met. 
17  Note  that  when  the  processing  activities  by  the  processor  are  related  to  the  targeting  activities  of  the 
controller, the processor is also subject to Article 3(2) of the GDPR, see page 20–22 of the EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 
on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3). 

Adopted 

 

9 

 

Example 4: Data collected by an EEA platform and then passed to a third country controller 
Maria, living in Italy, books a room in a hotel in New York by means of an online EEA travel agency. 
Maria’s personal data, necessary for booking the hotel, are collected by the EEA online travel agency 
as a controller and sent to the hotel receiving the data as a separate controller. While passing the 
personal data to the third country hotel, the EEA travel agency carries out a transfer of personal data 
and Chapter V GDPR applies. 

 

Example 5: Controller in the EU sends data to a processor in a third country  
Company X established in Austria, acting as controller, provides personal data of its employees or 
customers to Company Z in a third country, which processes these data as processor on behalf of 
Company  X.  In  this  case,  data  are  provided  from  a  controller,  which  as  regards  the  processing  in 
question, is subject to the GDPR, to a processor in a third country. Hence, the provision of data will be 
considered as a transfer of personal data to a third country and therefore Chapter V of the GDPR 
applies. 

 

It is also important to note that Article 44 of the GDPR clearly envisages that a transfer may not only 
be carried out by a controller but also by a processor. Therefore, there will be a transfer situation 
where a processor (either under Article 3(1) or under Article 3(2) for a given processing, as explained 
above) sends data to another processor or even to a controller in a third country as instructed by its 
controller.18 In these cases, the processor acts as a data exporter on behalf of the controller and has 
to ensure that the provisions of Chapter V are complied with for the transfer at stake according to the 
instructions of the controller, including that an appropriate transfer tool is used. Considering that the 
transfer is a processing activity carried out on behalf of the controller, the controller is also responsible 
and could be liable under Chapter V, and also has to ensure that the processor provides for sufficient 
guarantees under Article 28.  

Example 6: Processor in the EU sends data back to its controller in a third country 
XYZ Inc., a controller without an EU establishment, sends personal data of its employees/customers, 
all of them data subjects not located in the EU, to the processor ABC Ltd. for processing in the EU, on 
behalf of XYZ. ABC re-transmits the data to XYZ. The processing performed by ABC, the processor, is 
covered by the GDPR for processor specific obligations pursuant to Article 3(1), since ABC is established 
in the EU. Since XYZ is a controller in a third country, the disclosure of data from ABC to XYZ is regarded 
as a transfer of personal data and therefore Chapter V applies. 

 

Example 7: Processor in the EU sends data to a sub-processor in a third country 
Company  A  established  in  Germany,  acting  as  controller,  has  engaged  B,  a  French  company,  as  a 
processor on its behalf. B wishes to further delegate a part of the processing activities that it is carrying 
out on behalf of A to sub-processor C, a company in a third country, and hence to send the data for 
                                                             
18 Article 28(3)(a) GDPR refers to the documented instructions from the  controller “including with  regard to 
transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation”. See also Clause 8.1 of Module 
three in Annex to the Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2021/914 of 4 June 2021 on standard contractual 
clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 

Adopted 

 

10 

this purpose to C. The processing performed by both A and its processor B is carried out in the context 
of their establishments in the EU and is therefore subject to the GDPR pursuant to its Article 3(1), while 
the processing by C is carried out in a third country. Hence, the passing of data from processor B to 
sub-processor C is a transfer to a third country, and Chapter V of the GDPR applies. 

  As mentioned in paragraph 17 above, the second criterion implies that the concept of “transfer of 
personal data to a  third country or to  an international organisation” only applies to disclosures of 
personal data where two different (separate) parties (each of them a controller, joint controller or 
processor)  are  involved.  In  order  to  qualify  as  a  transfer,  there  must  be  a  controller  or  processor 
disclosing the data (the exporter) and a different controller or processor receiving or being given access 
to the data (the importer). 

Example 8: Employee of a controller in the EU travels to a third country on a business trip 
George, employee of A, a company based in Poland, travels to a third country for a meeting bringing 
his laptop. During his stay abroad, George turns on his computer and accesses remotely personal data 
on  his  company’s  databases  to  finish  a  memo.  This  bringing  of  the  laptop  and  remote  access  of 
personal data from a third country, does not qualify as a transfer of personal data, since George is not 
another controller, but an employee, and thus an integral part of the controller (A).19 Therefore, the 
transmission is carried out within the same controller (A). The processing, including the remote access 
and  the  processing  activities  carried  out  by  George  after  the  access,  are  performed  by  the  Polish 
company, i.e. a controller established in the Union subject to Article 3(1) of the GDPR. It can, however, 
be noted that in case George, in his capacity as an employee of A, would send or make data available 
to another controller or processor in the third country, the data flow in question would amount to a 
transfer under Chapter V; from the exporter (A) in the EU to such importer in the third country. 

 

It should also be recalled that entities which form part of the same corporate group may qualify as 
separate controllers or processors. Consequently, data disclosures between entities belonging to the 
same corporate group (intra-group data disclosures) may constitute transfers of personal data.20 

Example 9: A subsidiary (controller) in the EU shares data with its parent company (processor) in a 
third country 
The  Irish  Company  X,  which  is  a  subsidiary  of  the  parent  Company  Y  in  a  third  country,  discloses 
personal data of its employees to Company Y to be stored in a centralised HR database by the parent 
company in the third country. In this case the Irish Company X processes (and discloses) the data in its 
capacity of employer and hence as a controller, while the parent company is a processor. Company X 
is subject to the GDPR pursuant to Article 3(1) for this processing and Company Y is situated in a third 
country.  The  disclosure  therefore  qualifies  as  a  transfer  to  a  third  country  within  the  meaning  of 
Chapter V of the GDPR.  

2.3  The importer is in a third country, irrespective of whether or not this importer is 
subject to the GDPR for the given processing in accordance with Article 3, or is an 
international organisation 

                                                             
19 See paragraph 78 of the EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR. 
20 As far as data processing within a company group is concerned, special attention must be paid to the question 
of whether an establishment may be acting as a controller or processor, e.g. when processing data on behalf of 
the  parent  company,  see  paragraph  17  of  the  EDPB  Guidelines  07/2020  on  the  concepts  of  controller  and 
processor in the GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

11 

 

 

The third criterion requires that the importer is geographically in a third country, but regardless of 
whether the processing at hand falls under the scope of the GDPR, or is an international organisation.  

The EDPB highlights that  this criterion is aimed at  ensuring that the level of protection of natural 
persons guaranteed by  the GDPR is not undermined when personal data are no longer  processed 
within the EEA legal framework (see, in this respect, the last sentence of Article 44 and Recital 101 
GDPR).  This  may  happen  either  because  the  GDPR  does  not  apply  to  the  importer  for  the  given 
processing  or  because  personal  data,  even  if  the  given  processing  is  subject  to  the  GDPR,21  are 
processed  by  an  importer  located  outside  the  EEA  and  therefore  could  be  subject  to  different 
(conflicting)  legal  frameworks,  e.g.  as  regards  possible  disproportionate  government  access  to 
personal data. In this context, possible difficulties to enforce compliance with the GDPR and to obtain 
redress against entities located outside the EEA are also relevant considerations. 

Example 10: Processor in the EU sends data back to its controller in a third country 
Company A, a controller without an EU establishment, offers goods and services to the EU market. The 
French company B, is processing personal data on behalf of company A. B re-transmits the data to A. 
The processing performed by the processor B is covered by the GDPR for processor specific obligations 
pursuant to Article 3(1), since it takes place in the context of the activities of its establishment in the 
EU.  The  processing  performed  by  A  is  also  covered  by  the  GDPR,  since  Article  3(2)  applies  to  A. 
However, since A is in a third country, the disclosure of data from B to A is regarded as a transfer to a 
third country and therefore Chapter V applies. 

 

Example 11: Remote access to data in the EU by a third country processor acting on behalf of EU 
controllers 
A  company  in  a  third  country  (Company  Z),  with  no  establishment  in  the  EU,  offers  services  as  a 
processor to companies in the EU. Company Z, acting as processor on behalf of the EU controllers, is 
remotely accessing, e.g. for support purposes, the data which is stored in the EU. Since Company Z is 
located in a third country, such remote access results in transfers of data from the EU controllers to 
their processor (Company Z) in a third country under Chapter V. 

  Another situation worth mentioning in this context is when a controller in the EU uses a processor in 
the EU subject to third country legislation and there is a possibility that the processor will receive 
government access requests and, thus, a transfer of personal data will take place if the processor acts 
on such request. In such situation, it should be kept in mind that according to Article 28(1) and Recital 
81 GDPR, controllers may only use processors that provide sufficient guarantees that technical and 
organisational measures are taken that meet the requirements of the GDPR. In this context, the GDPR 
does not only refer to expertise and resources but also to reliability, which may be in doubt if the 
processor is subject to third country legislation which may prevent it from fulfilling its obligations as a 
processor. The question of whether the processor provides sufficient guarantees also concerns the 
lawfulness of the processing and the respect of the principle of integrity and confidentiality for which 
the controller is accountable under Article 5(2) of the GDPR.22 

                                                             
21 As mentioned above, whether the processing in question meets the requirements of Article 3 GDPR, i.e. that 
the  importer  is  subject  to  the  GDPR  for  the  given  processing,  has  been  further  elaborated  on  in  the  EDPB 
Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3). 
22 See also paragraphs 119–120 of the EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in 
the GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

12 

Example 12: Controller in the EU uses a processor in the EU subject to third country legislation 
The Danish Company X, acting as controller, engages Company Y established in the EU as a processor 
on  its  behalf.  Company  Y  is  a  subsidiary  of  the  third  country  parent  Company  Z.  Company  Y  is 
processing the data of Company X exclusively in the EU and there is no one outside the EU, including 
the parent Company Z, who has access to the data. Additionally, it follows from the contract between 
Company X  and  Company Y that Company  Y shall only process the personal data on documented 
instructions from Company X, unless required to do so by EU or Member State law to which Company 
Y is subject. Company Y is however subject  to third  country legislation with extraterritorial effect, 
which in this case means that Company Y may receive access requests from third country authorities. 
Since  Company  Y  is  not  in  a  third  country  (but  an  EU  company subject  to  Article  3(1)  GDPR),  the 
disclosure of data from the controller Company X to the processor Company Y does not amount to a 
transfer and Chapter V of the GDPR does not apply. As mentioned, there is however a possibility that 
Company Y receives access requests from third country authorities and should Company Y comply with 
such request, such disclosure of data would be considered a transfer under Chapter V. Where Company 
Y  complies  with  a  request  in  violation  of  the  controller’s  instructions  and  thus  Article  28  GDPR, 
Company  Y  shall  be  considered  an  independent  controller  of  that  processing  under  Article  28(10) 
GDPR. In this situation, the controller Company X should, before engaging the processor, assess these 
circumstances in order to ensure that, as required by Article 28 GDPR, it only uses processors providing 
sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate technical  and organisational measures so that the 
processing is in line with the GDPR, including Chapter V, as well as to ensure that there is a contract or 
legal act governing the processing by the processor.     

3 

  CONSEQUENCES IN CASE A TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA TAKES 
PLACE 

 

If all of the criteria as identified by the EDPB are met, there is a “transfer to a third country or to an 
international organisation”. Thus, a transfer implies that personal data are sent or made available by 
a controller or processor (exporter)  which,  regarding the given processing, is subject to the GDPR 
pursuant to Article 3, to a different controller or processor (importer) in a third country, regardless of 
whether  or  not  this  importer  is  subject  to  the  GDPR  in  respect  of  the  given  processing,  or  to  an 
international organisation.  

  As a consequence, the exporter needs  to  comply with the conditions of Chapter V and frame the 
transfer by using one of the instruments that aim at protecting personal data after they have been 
transferred to a third country or an international organisation. 

 

These instruments include an adequacy decision adopted by the European Commission recognising 
the existence of an adequate level of protection in the third country or international organisation to 
which the data is transferred (Article 45) or, in the absence of such adequate level of protection, the 
implementation by the exporter (controller or processor) of appropriate safeguards as provided for in 
Article 46.23 In addition, according to Article 49, personal data can be transferred to a third country or 
an  international  organisation  without  the  existence  of  an  adequate  level  of  protection  or  the 
implementation of appropriate safeguards in specific situations and under certain conditions.24  

                                                             
23 In this context, see also the EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to 
ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data. 
24 See EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679.   

Adopted 

 

13 

 

The main types of transfer instruments listed in Article 46 are:  

•  Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs); 

•  Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs); 

•  Codes of conduct;25 

•  Certification mechanisms;26 

•  Ad hoc contractual clauses; 

• 

International agreements/Administrative arrangements.27 

 

The content of the safeguards provided for by the transfer instruments needs to be adapted depending 
on the situation. As an illustration, the guarantees to be provided for a transfer of personal data by a 
processor are not the same as the ones to be provided for a transfer by a controller.28 Similarly, for a 
transfer of personal data to a controller or processor in a third country who is already subject to the 
GDPR  for  the  given  processing,  it  has  to  be  noted  that  the  GDPR  already  applies  in  its  entirety. 
Therefore, for such scenario, when developing relevant transfer instruments under Article 46, namely 
standard contractual clauses29 or ad hoc contractual clauses,30 the Article 3 situation should be taken 
into account in order not to duplicate the GDPR obligations but rather to address the elements that 
are related specifically to the risks associated with the importer being located in a third country, e.g.  
to address possible conflicting national laws and government access in the third country, as well as the 
difficulty to enforce and obtain redress against an entity outside the EU. Such instruments should, for 
example, address the measures to be taken in case of conflict of laws between third country legislation 
and the GDPR and in the event of third country requests for disclosure of data. The EDPB encourages 
and stands ready to cooperate in the development of a transfer instrument, such as a  new set of 
standard contractual clauses pursuant to Article 46(2)(c), in cases where the importer is subject to the 
GDPR for the given processing. The EDPB takes note that the European Commission has indicated that 
it is in the process of developing an additional set of standard contractual clauses for this scenario 

                                                             
25 EDPB has adopted Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers. 
26 EDPB has adopted Guidelines 07/2022 on Certification as a tool for transfers. 
27 EDPB has adopted Guidelines 2/2020 on articles 46(2)(a) and 46(3)(b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of 
personal data between EEA and non-EEA public authorities and bodies. 
28 See e.g. the different safeguards in Module 1 and Module 3 of Annex to the Commission Implementing Decision 
(EU) 2021/914 of 4 June 2021 on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (the “Implementing Decision”). 
29 The standard contractual clauses (SCCs) adopted by the European Commission on 4 June 2021, according to 
Article 1 of the Implementing Decision, provide appropriate safeguards for transfers from exporters of personal 
data subject to the GDPR to importers whose processing of the data is not subject to the GDPR. Note that this 
concerns the scope of application of the SCCs and does not interpret the notion of transfer under Chapter V of 
the GDPR. 
30 Note that according to Article 40(3), codes of conduct may be adhered to by controllers or processors that are 
not subject to the GDPR in order to provide appropriate safeguards under Article 46(2)(e). Similarly, pursuant to 
Article 42(2), certification mechanisms, seals or marks may be established in order to demonstrate the existence 
of appropriate safeguards under Article 46(2)(f) provided by controllers or processors that are not subject to the 
GDPR. This is why the EDPB, currently, has identified SCCs and ad hoc clauses as the available and most relevant 
transfer  tools  for  data  flows  to  importers  subject  to  the  GDPR.  This  notwithstanding,  code  of  conducts  and 
certifications play important roles as tools for controllers and processors to ensure and demonstrate compliance 
with the GDPR in relation to processing operations falling under the GDPR according to Article 3. As such, the 
adherence to both types of instruments may be taken into account when personal data are transferred to a 
controller or a processor in a third country subject to the GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

14 

which will take into account the requirements that already apply directly  to those  controllers and 
processors under the GDPR.31 

  Conversely, if the criteria as identified by the EDPB are not met, there is no transfer and Chapter V of 

the GDPR does not apply.  

4  SAFEGUARDS TO BE PROVIDED IF PERSONAL DATA ARE 

PROCESSED OUTSIDE THE EEA BUT NO TRANSFER TAKES PLACE 

 

 

In light of the criteria identified above, if the same controller or processor is processing data outside 
the EU  without disclosing it to another controller or processor (e.g. where  an  employee of  an EU 
controller travels abroad and has access to the data of that controller while being in a third country or 
in case of direct collection from individuals in the EU under Article 3(2) GDPR), the processing activity 
should not be regarded as a transfer under Chapter V of the GDPR. In this context, it should however 
be  kept  in  mind  that  the  controller  must  comply  with  the  GDPR  and  remains  accountable  for  its 
processing  activities,  regardless  of  where  they  take  place.  This  also  means  that  the  controller  or 
processor should pay particular attention to the legal frameworks of the third country that may have 
an impact on its ability to respect the GDPR. Indeed, although a certain data transmission may not 
qualify as a transfer to a third country in accordance with Chapter V of the GDPR, including the scenario 
described in Example 8, such processing can still be associated with increased risks because it takes 
place outside the EU, for example due to conflicting national laws or disproportionate government 
access in a third country. These risks must be considered when taking measures to ensure compliance 
with the GDPR, including under Article 5 (“Principles relating to processing of personal data”), Article 
24 (“Responsibility of the controller”), 32 (“Security of processing”), 33 (“Notification of a personal 
data breach”), 35 (“Data Protection Impact Assessment”), 48 (“Transfers or disclosures not authorised 
by Union law”) etc.  

Following from its obligation to be responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with the 
data protection principles (Article 5) and to implement technical and organisational measures taking 
into  account,  inter  alia,  the  risks  with  respect  to  the  processing  under  Article  32  of  the  GDPR,  a 
controller may very well conclude that extensive security measures are needed – or even that it would 
not be lawful – to conduct or proceed with a specific processing operation in a third country although 
there is no transfer situation. In a transfer situation, once an essentially equivalent level of protection 
cannot be guaranteed, the CJEU ultimately demands the transfer to be suspended or stopped.32 In this 
regard, the Court focuses on the risks that a specific processing operation entails due to its cross-
border  dimension.  These  requirements  are  also  of  relevance  when  assessing  situations  that  hold 
similar risks (although not considered as transfers),33 e.g. in relation to disproportionate government 
access by third country authorities. For example, a controller may conclude that employees cannot 
bring their laptops etc. to certain third countries. In this context, and as mentioned above, it should be 
underlined that as soon as  the data are disclosed by transmission or otherwise made  available to 

                                                             
31 See https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-protection/new-
standard-contractual-clauses-questions-and-answers-overview_en). 
32 Cf. CJEU judgment of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd, Maximillian Schrems, 
C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 135. 
33  It  can  be  noted  that  the  adequacy  status  of  a  certain  third  country  would  also  be  of  relevance  in  such 
assessment. 

Adopted 

 

15 

another controller or processor (also being a public authority) in the third country (for example by an 
employee on a business trip), the data flow in question would amount to a transfer under Chapter V.  

  Moreover, when a controller intends to process personal data outside the EU (although no transfer 
takes place), this information should as a rule be provided to individuals as part of the controller’s 
transparency obligations, e.g. to ensure compliance with the principle of transparency and fairness, 
which also requires controllers to inform individuals of the risks in relation to the processing.34 

 

To summarize, controllers and processors whose processing is subject to the GDPR are responsible for 
all  their  processing  activities,  regardless  of  where  they  take  place,  and  data  processing  in  third 
countries may involve increased risks, including in relation to disproportionate government access, 
which need to be identified and attentively addressed in order for such processing to be lawful under 
the GDPR. The EDPB will assess the need for additional guidance to be issued on safeguards in this 
regard.  

 

                                                             
34  See  Recitals  39  and  60  GDPR  and  the  WP29  Guidelines  on  Transparency  under  Regulation  2016/679 
(wp260rev.01), paragraph 10. 

Adopted 

 

16 

ANNEX: ILLUSTRATIONS OF EXAMPLES 1–12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

 

 
Example 1: Controller in a third country collects data directly from a data subject in the EU (under Article 3(2) GDPR) 
Maria, living in Italy, inserts her name, surname and postal address by filling a form on an online clothing website in 
order to complete her order and receive the dress she bought online at her residence in Rome. The online clothing 
website is operated by a third country company that has no presence in the EU, but specifically targets the EU market. 
In this case, the data subject (Maria) passes her personal data to the third country company. This does not constitute 
a transfer of personal data since the data are not passed by an exporter (controller or processor), but directly collected 
from  the  data  subject  by  the  controller  under  Article  3(2)  GDPR.  Thus,  Chapter  V  does  not  apply  to  this  case. 
Nevertheless, the third country company will be required to apply the GDPR since its processing operations are subject 
to Article 3(2). 
  

 

 

 
Example 2: Controller in a third country collects data directly from a data subject in the EU (under Article 3(2) GDPR) 
and uses a processor outside the EU for some processing activities 
Maria, living in Italy, inserts her name, surname and postal address by filling a form on an online clothing website in 
order to complete her order and receive the dress she bought online at her residence in Rome. The online clothing 
website is operated by a third country company that has no presence in the EU, but specifically targets the EU market. 
In order to process the orders received by means of the website, the third country company has engaged a non-EEA 
processor. In this case, the data subject (Maria) passes her personal data to the third country company and this does 
not constitute a transfer of personal data since the data are directly collected by the controller under Article 3(2) GDPR. 
Thus, the controller will have to apply the GDPR to the processing of this personal data. As far as it engages a non-EEA 
processor, such disclosure from the third country company to its non-EEA processor would amount to a transfer, and 
it will be required to apply Article 28 and Chapter V obligations so as to ensure that the level of protection afforded by 
the GDPR would not be undermined when data are processed on its behalf by the non-EEA-processor. 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

 

 

 
 
Example 3: Controller in a third country receives data directly from a data subject in the EU (but not under Article 
3(2) GDPR) and uses a processor outside the EU for some processing activities 
Maria, living in Italy, decides to book a room in a hotel in New York using a form on the hotel website. Personal data 
are collected directly by the hotel which does not target/monitor individuals in the EEA. In this case, no transfer takes 
place since data are passed directly by the data subject and directly collected by the controller. Also, since no targeting 
or monitoring activities of individuals in the EEA are taking place by the hotel, the GDPR will not apply, including with 
regard to any processing activities carried out by non-EEA processors on behalf of the hotel.   
 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 4: Data collected by an EEA platform and then passed to a third country controller 
Maria, living in Italy, books a room in a hotel in New York by means of an online EEA travel agency. Maria’s personal 
data, necessary for booking the hotel, are collected by the EEA online travel agency as a controller and sent to the 
hotel receiving the data as a separate controller. While passing the personal data to the third country hotel, the EEA 
travel agency carries out a transfer of personal data and Chapter V GDPR applies.  
 

 

Adopted 

 

19 

 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 5: Controller in the EU sends data to a processor in a third country 
Company  X  established  in  Austria,  acting  as  controller,  provides  personal  data  of  its  employees  or  customers  to 
Company Z in a third country, which processes these data as processor on behalf of Company X. In this case, data are 
provided from a controller which, as regards the processing in question, is subject to the GDPR, to a processor in a 
third country. Hence, the provision of data will be considered as a transfer of personal data to a third country and 
therefore Chapter V of the GDPR applies.  
 

 

 

 
Example 6: Processor in the EU sends data back to its controller in a third country 
XYZ Inc., a controller without an EU establishment, sends personal data of its employees/customers, all of them data 
subjects not located in the EU, to the processor ABC Ltd. for processing in the EU, on behalf of XYZ. ABC re-transmits 
the data  to XYZ. The processing performed  by ABC,  the processor, is covered by the GDPR for processor specific 
obligations pursuant to Article 3(1), since ABC is established in the EU. Since XYZ is a controller in a third country, the 
disclosure of data from ABC to XYZ is regarded as a transfer of personal data and therefore Chapter V applies. 
 

 

Adopted 

 

20 

 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 7: Processor in the EU sends data to a sub-processor in a third country 
Company A established in Germany, acting as controller, has engaged B, a French company, as a processor on its behalf. 
B wishes to further delegate a part of the processing activities that it is carrying out on behalf of A to sub-processor C, 
a company in a third country, and hence to send the data for this purpose to C. The processing performed by both A 
and its processor B is carried out in the context of their establishments in the EU and is therefore subject to the GDPR 
pursuant to its Article 3(1), while the processing by C is carried out in a third country. Hence, the passing of data from 
processor B to sub-processor C is a transfer to a third country, and Chapter V of the GDPR applies. 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 8.1: Employee of a controller in the EU travels to a third country on a business trip 
George, employee of A, a company based in Poland, travels to a third country for a meeting bringing his laptop. During 
his stay abroad, George turns on his computer and accesses remotely personal data on his company’s databases to 
finish a memo. This bringing of the laptop and remote access of personal data from a third country, does not qualify 
as a transfer of personal data, since George is not another controller, but an employee, and thus an integral part of 
the controller (A). Therefore, the transmission is carried out within the same controller (A). The processing, including 
the remote access and the processing activities carried out by George after the access, are performed by the Polish 
company, i.e. a controller established in the Union subject to Article 3(1) of the GDPR. 
Adopted 

21 

 

 

 

 

 
Example 8.2: Employee of a controller in the EU travels to a third country on a business trip 
George, employee of A, a company based in Poland, travels to a third country for a meeting bringing his laptop. During 
his stay abroad, George turns on his computer and accesses remotely personal data on his company’s databases to 
finish a memo. This bringing of the laptop and remote access of personal data from a third country, does not qualify 
as a transfer of personal data, since George is not another controller, but an employee, and thus an integral part of 
the controller (A). Therefore, the transmission is carried out within the same controller (A). The processing, including 
the remote access and the processing activities carried out by George after the access, are performed by the Polish 
company, i.e. a controller established in the Union subject to Article 3(1) of the GDPR. It can, however, be noted that 
in case George, in his capacity as  an  employee of A, would send or make data available to another controller or 
processor in the third  country, the data flow in question would  amount to a  transfer  under Chapter  V; from the 
exporter (A) in the EU to such importer in the third country. 

 

 

 
Example 9: A subsidiary (controller) in the EU shares data with its parent company (processor) in a third country 
The Irish Company X, which is a subsidiary of the parent Company Y in a third country, discloses personal data of its 
employees to Company Y to be stored in a centralised HR database by the parent company in the third country. In this 
case the Irish Company X processes (and discloses) the data in its capacity of employer and hence as a controller, while 
the parent company is a processor. Company X is subject to the GDPR pursuant to Article 3(1) for this processing and 
Company Y is situated in a third country. The disclosure therefore qualifies as a transfer to a third country within the 
meaning of Chapter V of the GDPR.  
 
Adopted 

22 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 10: Processor in the EU sends data back to its controller in a third country  
Company A, a controller without an EU establishment, offers goods and services to the EU market. The French company 
B, is processing personal data on behalf of company A. B re-transmits the data to A. The processing performed by the 
processor B is covered by the GDPR for processor specific obligations pursuant to Article 3(1), since it takes place in 
the context of the activities of its establishment in the EU. The processing performed by A is also covered by the GDPR, 
since Article 3(2) applies to A. However, since A is in a third country, the disclosure of data from B to A is regarded as 
a transfer to a third country and therefore Chapter V applies. 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Example 11: Remote access to data in the EU by a third country processor acting on behalf of EU controllers 
A company in a third country (Company Z), with no establishment in the EU, offers services as a processor to companies 
in the EU. Company Z, acting as processor on behalf of the EU controllers, is remotely accessing, e.g. for support 
purposes, the data which is stored in the EU. Since Company Z is located in a third country, such remote access results 
in transfers of data from the EU controllers to their processor (Company Z) in a third country under Chapter V. 
Adopted 

23 

 

 

 

 
 
Example 12: Controller in the EU uses a processor in the EU subject to third country legislation 
The Danish Company X, acting as controller, engages Company Y established in the EU as a processor on its behalf. 
Company Y is a subsidiary of the third country parent Company Z. Company Y is processing the data of Company X 
exclusively in the EU and there is no one outside the EU, including the parent Company Z, who has access to the data. 
Additionally, it follows from the contract between Company X and Company Y that Company Y shall only process the 
personal data on documented instructions from Company X, unless required to do so by EU or Member State law to 
which Company Y is subject. Company Y is however subject to third country legislation with extraterritorial effect, 
which in this case means that Company Y may receive access requests from third country authorities. Since Company 
Y is not in a third country (but an EU company subject to Article 3(1) GDPR), the disclosure of data from the controller 
Company X to the processor Company Y does not amount to a transfer and Chapter V of the GDPR does not apply. As 
mentioned, there is however a possibility that Company Y receives access requests from third country authorities and 
should Company Y comply with such request, such disclosure of data would be considered a transfer under Chapter V. 
Where Company Y complies with a request in violation of  the controller’s instructions  and thus Article 28 GDPR, 
Company  Y  shall  be  considered  an  independent  controller  of  that  processing  under  Article  28(10)  GDPR.  In  this 
situation, the controller Company X should, before engaging the processor, assess these circumstances in order to 
ensure that, as required by Article 28 GDPR, it only uses processors providing sufficient guarantees to implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures so that the processing is in line with the GDPR, including Chapter 
V, as well as to ensure that there is a contract or legal act governing the processing by the processor. 

 

Adopted 

 

24 

