 

Results of the 97th Conference of
independent data protection supervisory
federal and state authorities
3rd/4th April 2019 at Hambach Castle

Data protection officials decide on the Hambach declaration
to artificial intelligence

Press Release – Page 1/3
Munich, April 8th, 2019

 

 
The 97th Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
The federal and state governments met on April 3rd and 4th, 2019 at the Hambacher
Lock.

The DSK has commented on the following topics, among others:

Hambacher Declaration on Artificial Intelligence
One focus of the conference was the discussion about the
chemical intelligence (AI). The German data protection supervisory authorities have
passed the Hambach Declaration on Artificial Intelligence. She
cites as an example the use of AI systems in medicine, in particular
more in diagnosis, in language assistance and in the evaluation of
Application documents in the applicant selection. From the applicable data
data protection law, seven requirements are derived that already exist today
must be complied with. For example, the use of AI systems must
be comprehensible and explainable, develop the principle of data minimization
maintain, avoid discrimination and requires technical and organizational
 
 
 
 

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from April 8th, 2019 – page 2/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
 
satorical standards. The data protection supervisory authorities want to
 
development and call on science, politics and users to
to control the development of AI in terms of data protection. At the core
it is about the fact that in the end it is people and not machines over people
to decide.
 
The resolution is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/dsbk-ent/DSK_97-
Hambacher_Declaration.html
 
Brexit – Precautions by regulators for an unregulated
UK exit from the EU
The DSK discussed the consequences of an unregulated Brexit.
As early as March 8, 2019, it passed a resolution based on the
legal obligations of those responsible in the event of an unregulated
exit indicates. In the event of a no-deal exit, the United
Kingdom as a third country within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation
view and data transfers leading there are accordingly
secured separately. In the absence of such a safeguard,
data processing will be suspended and fines will be imposed.
 
The decision is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/dsbk-ent/DSK_96p-Brexit.html
 
Hacker attack – guidance for providers of online
services
In response to the hacker attack on politicians and
Public figures in January 2019 have the privacy
Zer an orientation guide "Requirements for operators of online
access security services”. In it online
Services State-of-the-art access security measures
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from April 8th, 2019 – page 3/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended. This applies to specifications for structure, transmission and storage
 
and use of passwords as well as dealing with attacks and incorrect
failed login attempts.
 
The guidance is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/dsbk-ent/DSK_97-Online-Dienste.pdf
 
 
 
Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri
 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection supervisory authorities
Federal and the states. The 97th conference took place on April 3rd and 4th, 2019 at the Hambacher
castle instead. The chair, which changes every year, organizes the meetings of the data protection conference
and represents the conference externally. In 2019, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
the freedom of information Rhineland-Palatinate chaired.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

