1/8

936-031219
Procedure No.: PS/00455/2019

RESOLUTION R/00114/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00455/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to AEMA HISPANICA, S.L., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 29, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against AEMA HISPANICA,
SL (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00455/2019

935-160419

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity, AEMA HISPANICA, S.L. with CIF.: B45540846, (hereinafter, "the entity
claimed), by virtue of a complaint filed by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, “the
claimant”) and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 05/15/19 he entered this Agency (through the Institute
Gallego de Consumption), brief presented by the claimant, in which he stated what
following: “I received an email with the payroll from a co-worker.
worked. I enclose a copy of the communication from the company.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,

dated 08/07/19, an information request is addressed to the entity, being
notified on 08/09/19, according to a certificate issued by the Service of
Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Enabled.

THIRD: As of 01/15/20, the claimed entity has NOT yet sent this
Agency, no type of information or documentation regarding the facts
denounced.

FOURTH: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
claimed entity, does not meet the conditions imposed by the regulations on
data protection, so it is appropriate to open this procedure
sanctioning

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority and, as established in articles
47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to initiate
this procedure.

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

II

In the present case, according to the claimant and in the absence of a lack of
response of the entity claimed to the request made by this Agency,
you can see that from the email address ***EMAIL.1 was sent
an email to the address ***EMAIL.2 with the subject: PAY EXTRA DECEMBER 2019
B.B.B., on 04/09/19, with the attached file of the payroll of the extra Christmas pay of
2018 of said person.

III

Thus, the known facts could violate recital (39) of the RGPD,
which indicates that: “(…) Personal data must be treated in a way that guarantees
adequate security and confidentiality of personal data, including for
prevent unauthorized access or use of such data and equipment used in the
treatment".

All this could constitute an infringement, attributable to the entity claimed,
for violation of article 5.1.f), of the RGPD, which establishes that: “The data
Personal information will be treated in such a way as to guarantee a
adequate security of personal data, including protection against
unauthorized or unlawful treatment and against loss, destruction or accidental damage,
through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.

For its part, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD considers as "very serious"
purposes of prescription, the: "treatment of personal data violating the
principles and guarantees established in article 5 of the RGPD”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

IV

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The intentionality or negligence in the infringement. In the present case we are
before unintentional negligent action (paragraph b).

- The data controller has NOT taken, to the best of his knowledge, any

no mediation to mitigate the damages suffered by the interested parties (section c).

- The data controller has NOT exercised, up to now,
no cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement (paragraph
F).

-

-

The categories of personal data affected by the infringement,
The data processed in this case, are of a markedly personal nature and therefore
person identifiers (section g).

The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement.
In this case, through a complaint filed by the claimant (section h).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD allows to set a penalty of 6,000 euros (six thousand euros), considered as
“very serious”, for prescription purposes, in 72.1.a of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: PENALTY PROCEDURE against the entity AEMA HISPANICA, S.L. with
CIF.: B45540846, for the violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with
the provisions of art. 83 of the aforementioned standard.

APPOINT: Instructor to D.C.C.C. and, as secretary, Ms. D.D.D., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the
research.

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be a fine of 6,000 euros (six thousand euros), without prejudice to what
resulting from the instruction.

NOTIFY: this agreement to the entity AEMA HISPANICA, S.L., granting it a
hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present
tests you deem appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,200 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,800 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
at 1,200 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,800 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,600 euros (three thousand six hundred euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

>>

 : On February 12, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3600 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00455/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to AEMA HISPANICA, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

