REPORT
ANNUAL
2020

The National Data Protection Commission (CNPD) is a

independent public institution with legal personality. She

enjoys financial and administrative autonomy.

It is responsible for verifying the legality of files and all collections,
uses and disclosures of information about individuals
identifiable and must ensure in this context respect for the freedoms and rights
fundamental rights of natural persons, in particular their private life.

2

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDINTRODUCTION It must in particular check and verify whether the data subject to processing are processed in
compliance with the provisions:
• the General Data Protection Regulation;
• the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of

data and the general data protection regime;

• the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security;
• the amended law of 30 May 2005 on the protection of privacy in the sector of

electronic communications;

• legal texts providing for specific provisions on the protection of personal data

personal character.

It is not competent to control the processing operations of personal data.
personnel carried out by the courts of the judiciary, including the public prosecutor, and
administrative order in the exercise of their judicial functions. This mission falls to
the judicial data protection supervisory authority.

3

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD MISSIONS
The CNPD aims to protect the privacy of citizens and to ensure respect for the
data protection legislation which entrusts it with the following tasks:

Inform and guide with:
• raising public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, guarantees and

rights relating to processing;

• raising the awareness of data controllers and processors with regard to the

obligations incumbent on them.

Advise through:
• notices relating to bills and regulatory or administrative measures concerning the

processing of personal data;

• suggestions and recommendations addressed to the government, in particular concerning the
relevant developments, insofar as they have an impact on data protection
of a personal nature, in particular in the field of information technology and
communication and business practices;

• the promotion of good practices and the publication of thematic guidelines;
• approval of codes of conduct, certification schemes and accreditation of organizations

certification;

• recommendations to the controller in accordance with the consultation procedure

prior.

Supervise and ensure transparency by:
• on-site visits relating to data protection following complaints or its

own initiative;

• audits relating to data protection following complaints or on its own initiative;
• response to data breaches;
• maintaining internal records of GDPR violations;
• the establishment and updating of a list in connection with the obligation to carry out an analysis

impact relating to data protection;

• approval of Binding Corporate Rules;
• reviewing certifications and monitoring certifiers;
• the adoption of corrective measures (e.g. warning, prohibition of treatment or fine

administration).

Cooperate through:
• exchanges with other national or foreign supervisory authorities;
• contributing to the activities of the European Data Protection Board.

4

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDINTRODUCTION TO VALUES
The CNPD independently exercises the missions assigned to it. She determines her
own priorities within the limits of its legal framework. It chooses its priorities, in particular on the basis
criteria such as the seriousness and extent of potential violations of the law and the extent of
affected individuals.

Expertise is very important for the CNPD, which is dedicated to quality work. To this end, the
CNPD strives to work with interdisciplinary teams and invests in the development
of its agents to improve their knowledge and skills.

The CNPD ensures transparency with regard to its results and its choices, which generates support
for his work and invites dialogue. The CNPD is open, honest and visible. She promotes a
positive and respectful atmosphere.

The CNPD is proud to work for the protection of a fundamental right. She bears witness to her
commitment to its work and its staff and is a full player in the environment
socio-economic Luxembourg.

5

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 8

12

14
14
14
14
16
17
17

19

21
22
23
24

1 FOREWORD

2 A YEAR IN FIGURES

3 ACTIVITIES IN 2020
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 RAISING PUBLIC AWARENESS
 
 
 
 
 

January 28, 2020: 14th International Data Privacy Day
“DaProLab” workshops
Trainings, conferences and seminars
Technological and legal watch
Collaborations with research and innovation players (RDI)

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

2 RESPONDING TO REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM INDIVIDUALS AND PROFESSIONALS

3 INTERVENING IN THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESS
 
 
 
 

Notices related to the fight against COVID-19
Notice on the Register of Trusts and Trusts
Prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering
or terrorist financing

4 GUIDE PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ACTORS
 
 
  Appointment of Data Protection Officers

25
Collection of personal data in the context of the coronavirus (COVID-19)
25
Guidelines on the consequences of Brexit for international data transfers 26
26

5 SUPPORT COMPLIANCE
 
 
 
 

Certificate
Codes of Conduct
Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA)
International transfers of personal data

6 HANDLING CITIZENS' COMPLAINTS
 
 
  Compliance requests

Adoption of the complaints procedure
National and European complaints

28
28
30
30
32

34
35
35
38

6

TABLE OF CONTENTS2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

7 ANALYZE DATA BREACHES
 
 

GDPR Data Breaches
Data breaches in the electronic communications sector

Controls
Audits

8 MONITORING AND ADOPTING CORRECTIVE MEASURES
 
 
  Corrective measures
 

The CNPD investigation procedure

9 MONITORING DATA PROCESSING BY LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES
  OR NATIONAL SECURITY
  Information requests
 
 
  Notification of data breaches
 
 

Controls provided for by specific legal provisions
European cooperation

Notice
Complaints

European Data Protection Board (EDPB)

10 CONTRIBUTE TO INTERNATIONAL WORK IN THE FIELD
  DATA PROTECTION
 
  Global Privacy Assembly
 
 

Spring Conference of European Data Protection Authorities and Seminar
“European Case Handling Workshop”

1 HUMAN RESOURCES

4 RESOURCES, STRUCTURES AND OPERATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2 ORGANIZATION OF THE CNPD
 
 

Adoption of the internal rules, the procedure relating to complaints
and procedure relating to investigations

3 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE 2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5 APPENDICES

7

39
39
44

46
47
48
49
50

51

 
51
52
53
53
54
54

 

56

57
66
69

70
70

74
75

76

82

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The college: Thierry Lallemang, Marc Lemmer, Tine A. Larsen and Christophe Buschmann.

Since March 2020, the daily life of Luxembourgers has been disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic.

coronavirus (COVID-19).

Whether in the private or professional sphere, the pandemic has had an impact on all aspects of our
life. Practices hitherto uncommon such as teleworking, online meetings and conferences or
distance education have been put in place due to confinement.

8

1FOREWORDANNUALREPORT2020 CNPDANNUALREPORT To allow the continuity of their activities while respecting the social distancing measures decided
by the government, the actors of economic and social life, just like the citizens have resorted massively
to digital tools. In addition to social networks and online media already firmly rooted in
habits of the vast majority of citizens before the pandemic, videoconferencing platforms have
generalized in the world of work, at least for the activities which allowed it.

Like most organizations that could do so, the CNPD switched to teleworking as soon as
March 17, 2020. This transition was quick and efficient and took place without major incidents, which allowed
the CNPD to ensure the continuity of its missions without interruption.

The digital transformation got a boost in a few months and the rapid deployment towards solutions
has obviously led to an increase in the processing of personal data.

Across Europe, governments and public and private organizations have taken action to stem
and mitigate the proliferation of COVID-19. Unprecedented data processing has been implemented to respond
punctually to health emergencies such as "contact tracing", temperature measurement
body at the entrance to premises or the "large scale testing" of the population.

The CNPD, together with its European counterparts, played an important role in ensuring that the deployment
of these measures taken is carried out in compliance with data protection rules.

Indeed, even in this extraordinary period, data controllers and subcontractors
must guarantee the protection of the personal data of the persons concerned. This is valid in
particularly for health data which is at the heart of the health crisis. Their use imposes respect
essential principles protecting the privacy and confidentiality of medical information concerning patients
citizens.

In Luxembourg and in Europe, the debate on the issue of data protection and the protection of privacy
in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic was animated, which reflects a great sensitivity within the company
civil society, economics and politics on these subjects.

The Government, aware of the issues, has sought the opinion of the CNPD for successive COVID-19 bills.
The National Commission has, on each occasion, quickly notified these bills by pointing out the need for
put in place safeguards for the protection of citizens' data.

Despite the situation, the project to fit out the new premises has experienced little delay. Thus, the CNPD has
been able to move to the Belval site in June.

9

2020 CNPD2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT GDPR - 2 YEARS LATER

While international data protection news in 2020 was dominated by the invalidation
of the “Privacy Shield” (which regulated the transfer of data between the EU and the United States) by the Court of Justice of
the European Union (“Schrems II” affair) as well as by Brexit, another point to be noted is the evaluation report
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)1 published by the European Commission two years after
entry into force of the regulation.

This report showed that the GDPR has achieved most of its objectives, in particular by giving citizens
a solid set of rights and by creating a new European system of governance and control of its
application. The GDPR has proven to be a flexible tool to support the development of digital solutions in
unforeseen circumstances such as the COVID-19 crisis. The report also found that companies
develop a culture of regulatory compliance and increasingly promote as a benefit
competition the high level of data protection they provide.

Citizens are better equipped and more aware of their rights: the GDPR increases transparency and confers
individuals more rights, such as the rights of access, rectification and erasure, the right to object
and the right to data portability. Today, 69% of the EU population aged over 16
are aware of the existence of the GDPR while 71% have heard of their national authority responsible for
of data protection, according to the results of a survey by the Union Agency for Fundamental Rights
European2.

While the European Commission's assessment is generally positive, it is still too early to draw conclusions.
definitive. However, some challenges are already on the horizon.

In particular, the processing of cross-border files based on the "one-stop shop" mechanism requires a
even more efficient and more harmonized approach as well as an effective use of all the tools provided for in the
GDPR, so that data protection authorities can cooperate efficiently.

With respect to international data transfers and in light of the invalidation of the “Privacy Shield”,
it is necessary to adapt the data transfer mechanisms, including the standard contractual clauses which are the tool
most commonly used data transfer method.

In terms of new technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, connected objects or
facial recognition, the CNPD with the other European authorities within the European Data Protection Board
(EDPB), continued its monitoring and its guidance and support actions.

1 https://ec.europa.eu/luxembourg/news/les-r%C3%A8gles-de-lue-en-mati%C3%A8re-de-protection-des-donn%C3%A9es-donnent-aux -citizens-the-means-

dagir-et_fr

2 https://fra.europa.eu/fr/news/2020/dans-quelle-mesure-les-europeens-sont-ils-preoccupies-par-leurs-donnees-charactere-personnel

10

1FOREWORDANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORT CNPD headquarters in Belval

Thus, the year 2020 was an exceptional year in many respects. With the COVID-19 crisis which
will continue to accompany during the current year and probably beyond, the challenges that this situation will generate in terms of
data protection and privacy will not be less.

Whether with citizens, private companies or public bodies, the CNPD will continue its
objective of promoting a culture of data protection in Luxembourg while ensuring, in this context,
the role of guarantor of compliance with the GDPR. With the allocated resources, the CNPD will be able to use the legal means
that the legislation provides to best guarantee the right balance between the information society and the protection
of privacy.

The Luxembourg supervisory authority will thus continue to implement its 2020-2022 work program
with a year 2021 certainly marked by the first decisions that were taken following investigations
opened in previous years.

 
Luxembourg, August 31, 2021

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

11

2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPD AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE

24

NOTICE

compared to 16 in 2019

relating to projects or proposals
legislative or remedial measures
regulations, including
opinions on the laws relating to:
• the fight against COVID-19;
• the video surveillance system-
spear for police purposes
“Visupol”;

• in the register of trusts and

trusts.

655

REQUESTS FOR
INFORMATION

IN WRITING

compared to 708 in 2019

2

NEWS
GUIDELINES
against 3 in 2019

17

TRAINING AND
CONFERENCES
compared to 28 in 2019

The 3 main categories of
requests concern:
1. the COVID-19 pandemic (tra-
people, taking
temperature, telecommuting,
homeschooling, etc.);

2. on-site monitoring

work ;

3. the right of persons
concerned (right of access,
right to erasure, etc.).

• Data processing
personal in the context of
the coronavirus epidemic;

• Guidelines on

THE
consequences of Brexit in
international transfers
data updates (updating
day).

COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

485

COMPLAINTS
compared to 625 in 2019

Main reasons:
1. Request for erasure or
rectification not respected
(26%);

2. Failure to respect the right of access

3. Right of opposition and prospecting

(23%);

tion (11%).

379

DATA BREACH NOTIFICATIONS

compared to 354 in 2019

Main cause: human error (65%)
Type of incident:
1. personal data sent to the wrong recipient (33%);
2. hacking, hacking (15%);
3. disclosure of personal data to the wrong person

(12%).

More than half of incidents are detected within 5 days of
their occurrence.

12

Number of events of
awareness that the CNPD
organized or in which
she intervened as
speaker.

6

OPEN AUDITS

on the theme of
"transparency" in
the trade sector
electronic.

2ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDA YEAR IN FIGURES COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

33

VISITS

ON THE SPOT

847

DELEGATES

TO PROTECTION

DATA (DPO)

1209

RESPONSIBLE
TREATMENT

on the subject of CCTV
and as part of the campaign
thematic “COVID-19 controls”.

natural or legal persons
declared to
the CNPD
since May 25, 2018.
including 116 in 2020

provided contact details
of their DPO to the CNPD since
May 25, 2018.
including 119 in 2020

INTERNATIONAL EDPB (European Data Protection Board)

HUMAN RESSOURCES

PLENARY MEETINGS

27
115
9

WORKING GROUP MEETINGS

NEW GUIDELINES

6

PROJECTS

50

COLLABORATORS

compared to 43 in 2019

for which the CNPD
took on the role of
rapporteur.

37.4 years: average age
4.5 years: average seniority
with the CNPD

13

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 RAISING PUBLIC AWARENESS

Informing citizens as well as data controllers and subcontractors is a priority for the
CNPD in order to make known the respective rights and duties of each. It conducts awareness-raising actions,
informs the public through its website and organizes or participates in training and conferences.

Due to the pandemic, the CNPD organized and participated in fewer events than in previous years.
Some conferences have been canceled or have been postponed to later dates. Others have taken place but
virtual mode or sometimes in mixed "remote / face-to-face" mode. Some initiatives envisaged just
before the start of the pandemic to transform training courses (carried out so far face-to-face and on
slide base) in virtual modules fully or partially recorded to be broadcast on platforms
learning, will continue in the years to come.

 

28 JANUARY 2020: 14TH INTERNATIONAL DATA PROTECTION DAY

The “International Data Protection Day”, an initiative of the Council of Europe and the Commission
European Union, has been celebrated on January 28 every year since 2006. The aim is to raise awareness among citizens about
the importance of protecting their personal data and respecting their fundamental rights and freedoms,
especially their private lives.

On January 28, 2020, the CNPD took part in the Data Privacy Day organized by the Restena Foundation and the University of
Luxemburg.

Data Privacy Day is an annual event for people interested in data protection and
the protection of privacy. The objective is to raise awareness and promote best practices in this area
at European and international level.

Mr. Christophe Buschmann, Commissioner of the CNPD, gave the opening speech and gave a
presentation entitled “Feedback on the CNPD governance and process for investigation”.

 

“DAPROLAB” WORKSHOPS

The “DaProLab” (Data Protection Laboratory) are workshops developed by the CNPD where a single subject
defined in advance is discussed with a limited number of people.

14

3ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORT ACTIVITIES IN 2020 Presentation by Christophe Buschmann during Data Privacy Day (January 28, 2020).

15

2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPD The objective of these workshops is to exchange knowledge, ideas, interpretations and points of view on a subject
predetermined between data protection professionals.

The events of 2018 and 2019 focused in particular on the security of exchanges in the field of health,
analyzes of the impact on data protection or on the processing of data in the sector of
finance/insurance. Due to the pandemic, the editions planned for 2020 have been postponed. Topics
planned for the year 2020 were, among others, the data protection impact assessments (DPIA) in the
context of scientific research and the identification of (co-)processors and processors in
the context of scientific research.

 

TRAINING, CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS

The National Commission has also participated in training, conferences and seminars to raise awareness among
public who are more expert in data protection issues.

As in previous years, the supervisory authority intervened during general training courses on the
data protection with the EST (Higher School of Work), the INAP (National Institute of Administration
public sector) of the CSSF (Financial Sector Supervisory Commission) and the CSL (Chamber of Employees) /
LLC (Luxembourg Life Long Learning Center).

The training sessions and conferences led by the CNPD during the year were:

• "Cyberprotection or how to correctly apply the GDPR in general medicine?" » during the conference

“Health 4.0” organized by the Luxembourg Association for Continuing Medical Education;

• "The GDPR at the heart of the customer relationship - what rules should be respected?" organized by the Chamber of Trades;
• “The General Data Protection Regulation: how to implement it in my office
brokerage? organized by APCAL (Professional Association of Insurance Brokers in
Luxemburg);

• “GDPR Evaluation after 2 years” organized by ISACA (International Audit and Consulting Association)

computer science) ;

• “The review of two years of GDPR” organized by the representation of the European Commission at the

Luxembourg as part of its “European consumer lunches”;

• “Compliance control: the CNPD approach”, organized by INHESJ (Institut National des Hautes

Security and Justice Studies, France);

• "How can GDPR certification support cross-border data transfers?" during a panel at the “Digital
Around the World” entitled “Making Data Protection by Design a Reality - Towards a Global Convergence” the
“Digital Around the World” conference;

• “Updates from the CNPD” during the PwC Cybersecurity Day;

16

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 • Round table “GDPR review - 2 years later” workshop “Business continuity in the period of COVID-19: what
challenges for the protection of personal data? » during the Cybersecurity & Data Protection Days 2020
organized by the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce and its Enterprise Europe Network, in collaboration with
SECURITYMADEIN.LU and MGSI;

• “The CNPD and the supervisory authorities under the GDPR” organized by Chambre des Salariés as part of the course

evening “The personal data protection professional”,

• “GDPR and other regulatory considerations in Europe” organized by the company's Foundry accelerator

Mason Bower on behalf of a selection of startups wishing to set up in Luxembourg.

Since 2020, the CNPD has been associated with the development of a new training program in the field
cybersecurity in higher professional education at the BTS level, offered by the Lycée Guillaume Kroll in
Esch-sur-Alzette. The CNPD contributed to the definition of the program with regard to the protection aspects of
personal data. Classes will start at the start of the school year in autumn 2021, following the obtaining in June
2021 of the accreditation of the BTS by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research.

 

TECHNOLOGICAL AND LEGAL MONITORING

At the start of 2020, the CNPD began to set up a technology watch and legal watch unit and
regulatory. This must enable the CNPD services:

• to have a quick and summary overview of the issue of personal data in the context of

new technologies ; And

• to be able to orient their research in the context of the processing of complaints or investigations and to

the drafting of legal opinions or the preparation of training guidance or recommendations.

The CNPD experts thus opened or updated the following files during 2020:

• Fintech
• COVID-19 tracing Apps
• Telework
• Homeschooling
• Artificial intelligence

 

COLLABORATIONS WITH RESEARCH AND INNOVATION (RDI) PLAYERS

Government policy places significant emphasis on the economic diversification of the country through research
and innovation (RDI). The priorities of public and private RDI actors are largely science-oriented

17

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD digital, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, digital trust and, in general, technologies
innovative digital.

In this context, the CNPD must actively observe the major political orientations, large-scale projects
national actors and to remain open to collaborations deemed useful and necessary for development
products and services that respect the protection of personal data and privacy.

The CNPD was asked to participate in the following projects by being part of the monitoring committee or the
project management:

• National Digital Twin: LIST project (Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology) and co-financed by the FNR;
• Smart Schoul 2025: FNR project of the Interdisciplinary Center for Security, Reliability and Trust (SnT) of the University
of Luxembourg in collaboration with the SCRIPT of the Ministry of National Education, Childhood and
Youth, and the Lycée Edward Steichen Clervaux (LESC).

In the context of the activities of the "Research Luxembourg COVID-19 Taskforce", the CNPD contributed to the work
evaluation and preparation for the implementation of a national Contact Tracing App solution.

Active participation in these projects allows the CNPD to remind public research actors and to
innovation the important principles of the protection of personal data such as in particular the
"Privacy by design and by default", limitation of retention periods, limitation of the purposes of
processing, the determination of the conditions of lawfulness or the clarification of the links between controllers
and subcontractors.

18

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
IN WRITING

1200

1000

800

600

400

200

0

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2 RESPONDING TO REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM INDIVIDUALS
  AND PROFESSIONALS

The CNPD informs and advises individuals and professionals who wish to obtain information
legal information, information on the exercise of their rights or assistance in bringing their
processing to data protection legislation. A dedicated service answers questions from
applicants received by e-mail, telephone or postal mail.

The National Commission received 655 written requests for information in 2020, a decrease compared to
the previous year (-7%). However, we observe a gradual increase since 2011, marked by
the exceptional peak in 2018, the year the GDPR came into force.

In 2020, slightly less than half of the requests came directly from data subjects, in
clear progress compared to 2019. Private companies are still introducing many new
requests, as well as public administrations. The National Commission was approached by a certain
number of public entities, including more and more municipal administrations.

Unsurprisingly, the year 2020 was marked by numerous requests relating to data processing
in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular with regard to the tracing of persons exposed to a person
positively tested, temperature taking and the use of digital platforms for the realization of
videoconferences. Surveillance in the workplace, above all by means of new IT tools
put in place by the employer, was a subject of concern with the massive use of teleworking throughout
the year 2020.

19

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD As in previous years, a large number of requests concerned the exercise of the rights of individuals
concerned, in particular the right of access to personal data and the right to erasure. These
requests demonstrate that citizens make greater use of the rights granted by the GDPR and that the protection of
data continues to be a major concern.

Other recurring questions include:

• the conditions of lawfulness (in particular consent);
• education (especially image rights);
•  geolocation ;
•  human resources ;
• supervision (in the workplace);
• the use of the identity document / registration number (RNPP);
• video surveillance.

20

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF OPINIONS

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

3 INTERVENING IN THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESS

The CNPD advises the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other public institutions and bodies
through notices relating to bills and regulatory or administrative measures concerning the
processing of personal data and presenting a particular risk with regard to the privacy of individuals
concerned.

In 2020, the National Commission issued 24 opinions on draft laws or grand-ducal regulations, i.e. 8
more than in 2019.

All opinions can be consulted on the CNPD website at https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/
reports/index.html.

The following themes were addressed in the CNPD's opinions:

• the fight against COVID-19 (8 opinions);
• the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism (3 opinions);
• the processing of personal data in the electronic communications sector;
• the processing of data concerning health in the field of insurance and reinsurance;
• the examination-competition for admission to the Police training course;
• the quality of services for the elderly;
• the lease for residential use;
• procedures for registering establishments of food business operators;
• housing assistance files;
• the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of inland navigation.

21

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT In addition, an opinion on surveillance in the workplace, hereinafter referred to as "work opinion", has been adopted.
in 2020 (procedure of Article L.261-1 paragraph (4) of the Labor Code) on the geolocation of passenger cars
service and construction machinery.

Finally, the CNPD also issued 4 opinions relating to the processing of personal data in
criminal matters and national security. These are presented in part II.9.b) dedicated
specifically to the role of the National Commission relating to the control of data processing carried out by
law enforcement or national security authorities.

Among the opinions issued in 2020, the CNPD would like to highlight the following three opinions. Other reviews may
be consulted on the CNPD website at https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis.html.

 

NOTICES RELATING TO THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19

In 2020, the National Commission issued 8 opinions concerning the introduction of a series of measures concerning
natural persons in the context of the fight against COVID-19.

The National Commission has emphasized in its opinions that the protection of personal data is not
consider as an obstacle to the implementation of personal data processing in the context of
the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic, as long as the fundamental principles provided for by the GDPR are respected. She
limited its comments to the provisions of the bill that have an impact on privacy and
the protection of personal data.

In its position papers, the CNPD notably commented:

• the creation of an information system by the Health Department, in order to monitor the evolution of the situation related to

to COVID-19 and the processing of "sensitive" data through this system;

• the establishment of a tracking system to identify as soon as possible any person at risk or with high
risk of becoming infected in order to implement the necessary precautions (such as quarantine) and
thus preventing the spread of the infection by these people who are in turn contagious;

• the retention period of the personal data contained in the information system and

the anonymization/pseudonymization of this data;

• persons authorized in the context of contact tracing to access the data of infected persons

or at high risk of being infected contained in the information system;

• the collection of personal data within the framework of the vaccination programme. She took a stand
as to questions concerning the purpose pursued by the collection of data and the retention period of the
data collected as part of the vaccination program.

22

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 The CNPD has also issued an internal request to notify bill no. 7635 which provides that “employees must
immediately report to the employer or designated employees and safety and health representatives any
work situation which they have reasonable cause to believe presents a serious and immediate danger to
safety and health in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic).

The CNPD's own referral was made in the context of numerous requests for information and complaints
introduced to it concerning on the one hand the data, in particular health, that the employees would be authorized
to communicate to the employer in the event of suspicion or contamination with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and on the other hand the
obligations of the employer with regard to the processing of this data.

 

NOTICE OF THE REGISTER OF TRUSTS AND TRUSTS

The CNPD has issued an opinion on draft law no. 7216B, which aims to transpose article 31 of the directive (EU)
2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 relating to the prevention of the use of
financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing taking into account the
FATF recommendation 25.

The bill has two parts. First, the bill imposes an obligation on trustees and
trustees to obtain and retain data relating to beneficial owners and other persons
specified in the bill. Secondly, the text aims to establish a register of trusts and trusts kept
by the Administration of registration, domains and VAT in which the fiduciaries and trustees will have to
register certain data that they are obliged to collect under the draft law.

The National Commission has commented on several elements of the draft law. She has in particular
recalled the need to respect the principle of data minimization and therefore recommended to plan with

23

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD clarifies the data to be collected by trustees and fiduciaries as part of their obligations
arising from this bill. In accordance with the principle of data minimization, only the data
needed should be addressed.

Furthermore, with regard to access to the register, the CNPD notably recommended limiting the access of professionals to the
data contained in the register to only necessary data. Regarding access by the general public
on the basis of legitimate interest, the CNPD reiterated the importance of a clear definition of legitimate interest and considered
necessary to define the criteria on the basis of which this legitimate interest would be analysed. She also formulated
comments on the personal data to be provided with the request to access the register.

The National Commission has also issued recommendations relating to the processing of the authorities
authorities and self-regulatory bodies, in particular with regard to compliance with the principle of limitation
purposes and the transfer of data to third countries.

 
 

PREVENTING THE USE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM FOR MONEY LAUNDERING
OR TERRORIST FINANCING

The CNPD has issued its opinion on draft law no. 7467, which aims to transpose certain provisions of the directive
2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 relating
preventing the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or the financing of
terrorism and to implement FATF recommendations, in particular in the event that these recommendations
are not subject to equivalent provisions in Directive (EU) 2015/849. She made comments
on several elements of the bill.

In its opinion, the CNPD first recalled the importance of respecting the legislation on the protection of
privacy and personal data when transposing Directive 2018/843 and implementing
implementation of FATF recommendations.

It also made remarks relating to the duration of data retention by professionals as well as
as well as the rights of data subjects, raising the need to provide a precise and proportional legal framework
for the desired purpose. With regard to the rights of data subjects, the CNPD recommended specifying
the cases in which the right of access of data subjects could be limited and to provide for a right of access
indirect in case of limitation of this right.

The National Commission finally made suggestions as to the processing of the FIU, the national authorities
and self-regulatory bodies, in particular with regard to compliance with the principle of purpose limitation
and the transfer of data to third countries.

24

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 4 GUIDE PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ACTORS

Actors in the private and public sectors must adopt preventive and responsible conduct with regard to
personal data they collect. Guiding and directing them in this process is one of the roles
of the supervisory authority. This role is assumed by the CNPD by developing recommendations or guidance
on themes for a very specific target audience.

 

COLLECTION OF PERSONAL DATA IN THE CONTEXT OF CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19)

Personal data, particularly health data, are at the heart of the issues linked to the crisis
health of COVID-19. From the start of the pandemic, the CNPD supported private and public actors
Luxembourgish.

They faced complex challenges in their day-to-day operations. New challenges have
emerged as the confinement and then the deconfinement progressed, in particular due to the return of employees
at their place of work as well as during successive stages depending on the health measures taken by the
government.

Professionals and individuals have wondered both about the measures implemented to limit the
spread of the virus and ensure the resumption of activity in complete safety, only on the conditions in which the
personal data, in particular health data, may be used.

The CNPD has published recommendations to guide professionals in the pursuit of their activities and to
respond to people's questions about their rights.

25

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT In its guidance, the CNPD notably recalled a few rules concerning:

• employers' duty of safety;
• the employee/agent security obligation;
• data processing by employers:

  - temperature readings at the entrance to the premises;
  - carrying out tests by the employer and questionnaires on the state of health;

• requests and recommendations from health authorities.

The recommendations have been updated on the CNPD3 website on several occasions, taking into account
of the evolution of the pandemic.

 
 

GUIDELINES ON THE CONSEQUENCES OF BREXIT ON TRANSFERS
INTERNATIONAL DATA

 

Following the agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Commission, published on December 25, 2020, the CNPD has
updated its guidelines regarding the consequences of Brexit for international transfers
of data. These guidelines are intended to guide companies, public bodies and associations
Luxembourg companies who are required to transfer personal data to the United Kingdom, and who
intend to continue such transfers in 2021.

The National Commission has also updated its thematic dossier devoted to international transfers of
personal data in relation to the General Data Protection Regulation.

The following scenarios are dealt with in the thematic dossier:

• Transfers within the European Economic Area (European Union, Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland);
• Transfers to a country outside the European Economic Area with an adequate level of protection;
• Transfers to a country outside the European Economic Area that does not have a level of protection

adequate ;

• International cooperation in police and judicial matters;
• The consequences of Brexit in terms of international data transfers.

 

APPOINTMENT OF DATA PROTECTION OFFICERS

Since the entry into force of the GDPR, data controllers and processors must communicate
at the CNPD the contact details of the Data Protection Officer (DPD, or DPO for “Data Protection
Officer”) whom they have, where applicable, designated.

3 https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/actualites/national/2020/03/coronavirus.html

26

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 1000

800

600

400

200

0

2018

2019

2020

2018

2019

2020

Declared natural or legal persons

with the CNPD as DPO

Data controllers who communicated

the contact details of their DPO at the CNPD

In 2020, 119 controllers provided the contact details of their DPO to the Commission
national. Since May 25, 2018, 1,209 data controllers have taken this step.

A total of 847 natural or legal persons were declared to the CNPD, including 116 in 2020.
 
To facilitate the communication of this information, the CNPD has put a form online, as well as a space
dedicated website which answers frequently asked questions.

As a reminder, the appointment of a DPO is mandatory in three situations:
• the processing is carried out by a public authority or a public body, with the exception of courts acting

in the exercise of their judicial function;

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of processing operations
which, due to their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring at
large scale of the persons concerned;

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of large-scale processing
scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9 or of personal data relating
criminal convictions and offenses referred to in Article 10.

Unless it is clear that an organization is not required to appoint a DPO, the CNPD always recommends
document the internal analysis carried out to determine whether or not a DPO should be appointed.

27

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 5 SUPPORTING COMPLIANCE

The General Data Protection Regulation has introduced several voluntary tools to
enable organizations to manage their compliance and demonstrate that they are complying with the legislation: analyzes
impact on data protection, certifications, codes of conduct or transfer framework
international data.

 

CERTIFICATION

The CNPD continued its work started in 2018 to set up and manage activities related to the
certification as proposed in the GDPR. These instruments enable data controllers and data processors to
processors to demonstrate that their processing operations comply with the Regulation.

The establishment of certification mechanisms can promote transparency and compliance with the GDPR and allow
data subjects to assess the level of data protection offered by the products, services, processes
or systems of private and public actors.

The framework for the practical application of these new tools is being developed in consultation with the other regulatory authorities.
control at the EDPB level to ensure consistency but also, at the national level, in collaboration
with interested private sector actors.

The many exchanges between the CNPD and companies during the GDPR preparation phase have demonstrated
that they have a particular interest for certification according to the regulation.

Convinced of the added value that certification can offer, the CNPD has taken a particularly
proactively by developing, together with auditing companies, a certification framework based on the
international conformity assessment ISAE (International Standard on Assurance Engagements).

Thus, the CNPD proposed the plan called "GDPR-CARPA" which was submitted to an initial consultation
public in June 2018. After integrating until the end of 2020 the feedback received at national and European level, in
particular via exchanges with the other European supervisory authorities within the EDPB, a consultation
final was completed in early 2021.

The CNPD has oriented its work according to two pillars:

• The first pillar concerns the certification criteria that must be met by an organization that wants

some of its data processing is certified;

28

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 • The second pillar concerns the accreditation criteria that must be met by an organization wishing to act

as a certification body.

In this context, she contributed as lead-rapporteur to the European Data Protection Board to:

• the establishment of procedures for the adoption of accreditation criteria for certification bodies;
• the adoption of certification criteria and
• the adoption of a European label for certification.

It should be noted that the CNPD is the first data protection authority in Europe to submit its criteria
to the EDPB for advice and, once these criteria are adopted, Luxembourg will be the first country to allow the
certification according to GDPR criteria.

Approval of accreditation criteria for certification bodies

On April 3, 2020, the CNPD adopted Decision No. 8/2020 approving the licensing criteria for
certification bodies.

These accreditation criteria apply to certification bodies whose activities relate to mechanisms
and certification criteria that the CNPD has designated by the “Alpha set” label as defined in the attached document
to the decision.

The purpose of the accreditation is to certify with the necessary authority the skills of the certification bodies, this
which builds trust in the certification mechanism.

29

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD

CODES OF CONDUCT

Codes of conduct are voluntary accountability tools that define specific rules in terms of
data protection for certain categories of controllers and processors.

They can be a useful and effective accountability tool by providing a detailed description of
all the most appropriate and ethical behaviors and incorporating best practices in a
given sector.

Professional associations or bodies representing a given sector may develop codes to
help companies in this sector to comply with the GDPR in an effective way.

In 2020, the CNPD was in contact with the federation of a professional sector which has initiated an approach to
establishment of a code of conduct. However, the CNPD observes that, unlike neighboring countries,
actors in Luxembourg have not yet really demonstrated their interest in codes of conduct. However, she
encourages them to do so and plans to promote the use of this tool in the near future.

 

DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT (DPIA)

DPIA - what is it?

A AIPD (Data Protection Impact Analysis, or DPIA)
Assessment”) is a tool that helps identify and minimize the data protection risks of new
projects involving personal data processing processes. It is part of the obligation
provided by the GDPR for data controllers and strongly contributes to the accountability approach
advocated by the GDPR, in particular via the concepts of data protection by design and data protection.
default data (“Privacy by design”, “Privacy by default”).

A DPIA helps data controllers to identify and deal with problems at an early stage, to demonstrate
their compliance with data protection obligations and to meet the expectations of individuals
in terms of privacy.

If an organization has identified processing of personal data likely to generate high risks
for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned, it must carry out a DPIA for each of these processing operations.

The CNPD has drawn up a list of types of processing operations for which it considers that a DPIA is
obligatory in all cases4.

4 The list can be consulted on the CNPD website: https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/professionnels/obligations/AIPD.html

30

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 GDPR COMPLIANCE SUPPORT TOOL

In order to help organizations in their compliance efforts, the CNPD has developed
2017 with external partners (Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, LIST, the company
eProseed and with the support of Digital Lëtzebuerg) an online tool allowing them to self-assess
their level of maturity in terms of data protection: the “GDPR Compliance Support
Tool” (CST).

This tool has seen continued interest with around 2000 organizations registered as users.
as of 31.12.2020.

The tool has fulfilled its role of assisting organizations with GDPR compliance for the entry
of the regulation in 2018 and it is no longer adapted to the evolution of the matter.

It was taken offline in September 2021. The CNPD has begun discussions to propose new
new tools.

If, following this risk analysis, it results that the level of residual risk remains high, the organization must
You must consult the CNPD, which will give an opinion on the planned processing and the risks associated with it.

In this case, the processing cannot be implemented before receipt of the opinion of the CNPD, and, if necessary,
the implementation of additional measures.

In 2020, two requests for prior opinions were submitted to the CNPD. This figure is very low in comparison
with those of neighboring countries indicates that the use of impact assessments does not yet seem to be very
widespread among data controllers established in Luxembourg.

31

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD

INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA

Personal data can circulate freely from Luxembourg within the Space
European Economic Area (EEA), as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected. Transfers of
data outside the EU and the EEA are possible, provided that a level of data protection is ensured
sufficient and appropriate. These transfers must be regulated using different legal tools (clauses
contractual agreements, Binding Corporate Rules (BCR), codes of conduct, certification mechanisms or
specific safeguards for transfer between public authorities or bodies).

32

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 Invalidation of the “Privacy Shield”

On July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) invalidated decision 2016/1250
on the adequacy of the protection provided by the EU-US Privacy Shield (“Privacy
Shield”). In its judgment in Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland and Maximilian Schrems
(Schrems II), the Court found that the “Privacy Shield” did not provide a level of protection essentially
equivalent to that guaranteed by the GDPR and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.

Therefore, companies can no longer legitimize their transfers to the United States of America based on
of the EU-US "Privacy Shield" Framework, but will have to carry out the same analysis as for any other country outside
of the European Economic Area that does not have an adequate level of protection.

Binding corporate rules

Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) help ensure
a sufficient level of protection for data transferred within a group of companies both within and outside
outside the European Economic Area. This appropriate guarantee lends itself especially to corporate groups
multinationals implementing a large number of international data transfers.

The BCRs constitute a “charter for the protection of personal data” drawn up by a group
which defines its policy on the transfer of personal data. This charter should
be binding and respected by all group entities, regardless of their country of establishment, as well as
than by all their employees. In addition, it must confer on the persons concerned (customers, suppliers
and/or employees) enforceable rights with regard to the processing of their personal data
staff.

In 2020, the CNPD handled files concerning binding corporate rules (BCRs, article 47 of the
GDPR) including 7 as principal authority (i.e. for multinational companies whose establishment
authority in the European Union is located in Luxembourg), 3 as a secondary authority (“co-reviewer”)
(i.e. in support of the main supervisory authority) and 15 as the authority concerned.

33

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 6 PROCESSING CITIZENS' COMPLAINTS

If a direct complaint by a data subject to a controller has remained unanswered
afterwards, he can contact the CNPD. Handling complaints from data subjects
is one of its missions. The CNPD in principle informs the data controller of the facts raised in
the complaint and, in the event of breaches noted, asks it to comply and to respect
the rights of data subjects.

34

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020

ADOPTION OF THE COMPLAINTS PROCEDURE

On October 16, 2020, the CNPD adopted its complaints procedure5.

The CNPD thus first examines whether a complaint is justified, i.e. it verifies whether the alleged facts
by the claimant relating to the processing of personal data may or may not constitute
a breach of applicable data protection law.
 
When the CNPD considers that the disputed data processing is indeed contrary to the law, it
will endeavor to remedy this, in a first step, without having to trigger a formal investigation procedure
in accordance with articles 37 to 41 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime.

It thus has discretionary power to assess whether it investigates a complaint or not. Depending of
specific to each complaint, the CNPD may decide to investigate or not to investigate a complaint.
complaint, taking into account in particular the degree of seriousness of the alleged facts, the alleged violation, the degree
impact on fundamental rights and freedoms, the degree of priority in relation to the number of complaints and the
resources available.

 

NATIONAL AND EUROPEAN COMPLAINTS

In 2020, the CNPD received a total of 485 complaints:

• 324 people called directly on the services of the CNPD when they felt that there had been a

violation of the law or interference with the exercise of their rights;

• In addition to complaints handled at national level, through the European cooperation system, 161
complaints for which the CNPD was the presumed lead authority because the controller
with activities at European level, had established its headquarters in Luxembourg. These complaints are made
for the attention of the CNPD by the supervisory authority or authorities of the countries in which the person(s)
concerned lodged their complaint via the IMI system.

Compared to the previous year, this is a decrease of 140 claims. However, their number
remains very high since the entry into application of the GDPR with an average of 520 complaints per year since
2018.

Requests to erase or rectify data constitute 26% of complaints received in 2020.
These included, among other things, requests to close accounts with online services/commerce or

5 https://cnpd.public.lu/content/dam/cnpd/reglements-cnpd/CNPD-Procedure-Reclamationsversdef20201016.pdf

35

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT CHANGE IN THE NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS

800

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

REASONS FOR COMPLAINTS

Refusal to access data (23%)
Request for erasure or rectification not complied with (26%)
Opposition to prospecting or complaints against spam (11%)
Legality of certain administrative or commercial practices (11%)
Data privacy (6%)
Security measure (3%)
Monitoring (5%)
Transmission of data to third parties (7%)
Image rights (1%)
Right to information (1%)
Others (6%)

36

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 THE INTERNAL MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM (IMI)

The IMI system is the European Union's IT platform which guarantees the proper implementation of
implementation of cooperation between supervisory authorities for a wide range of regulations.
This tool has also been put at the service of the GDPR since May 25, 2018 as provided for by the GDPR.
The supervisory authorities of the Member States cooperate closely to ensure protection
data protection rights across the EU.

Now more than ever, mutual assistance and coordinated decision-making in
cross-border data protection cases are of utmost importance.

In addition, the European Data Protection Board issues opinions and takes decisions
binding when national data protection authorities have positions
different in a cross-border case.

Using the IMI system, the control authorities can in particular:

• determine which is the lead supervisory authority in a cross-border dispute;
• cooperate to reach a settlement of cross-border disputes;
• request and provide assistance to the supervisory authorities of other Member States;
• organize joint operations involving the supervisory authorities of several States

members ;

• consult the European Data Protection Board for an opinion or a decision

binding.

requests to erase personal data (email addresses, ratings, etc.) accessible on sites
Internet (such as directories for example).

Almost a quarter of complaints (23%) were motivated by the failure of managers to respect the right of access
of the treatment. In some cases, the latter have refused the persons concerned access to their data,
ignored their requests or did not give them enough information in relation to the legal obligations to
respect in terms of the right to information and access.

11% of complaints related to the right to object, particularly in the area of prospecting. The CNPD
occurred when prospecting unsubscribe links in emails were not functional or
when the data controller does not respond to requests for opposition.

In 11% of cases, complainants asked the CNPD to verify the legality of certain practices
administrative or commercial. They questioned in particular:

37

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT • illicit or excessive collection of data (eg license plates);
• requesting documents such as identity card or passport for identity verification purposes;
• the publication of personal data online (eg on a social network);
• provisions relating to the protection of data mentioned in the general conditions relating to

online businesses or services;

• the retention period of the data collected;
• the lawfulness of processing personnel files;
• the creation of directories without the consent of the persons concerned;
• automated individual decisions.

The unauthorized transmission of data to third parties has also led to a number of complaints
(7%). This includes for example:

• the publication of data (videos, photos, etc.) online without sufficiently protecting them or the use

data for purposes other than those for which they were originally collected;

• sending emails to people for whom they were not intended or sending confidential emails

but distributed collectively and visibly to all recipients (“CC” instead of “BCC”);

• unauthorized consultations in the national register of natural persons RNPP) by agents of the

public sector.

The majority of inquiries related to workplace surveillance (5% of complaints) concerned the
video surveillance.

 

COMPLIANCE REQUESTS

In 2020, 167 national complaints led to the adoption of compliance measures. These are the cases
where the CNPD has asked the controller to put in place measures to comply with the GDPR
(e.g. grant a request for access, deletion, opposition, modification of information notices in order to
comply with the requirements of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, implementation of additional security measures,
etc.) without having had to initiate a formal investigation procedure in accordance with Articles 37 to 41 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection.

In addition to complaints lodged at national level, are added through the European system of cooperation
another 65 complaints which have been closed by requests for compliance.

38

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 7 ANALYZE DATA BREACHES

Two types of data breaches must be notified to the CNPD:

• data breaches under the General Data Protection Regulation; And
• data breaches in the electronic communications sector.

 

GDPR DATA BREACHES

The GDPR requires that a breach of security resulting, accidentally or unlawfully, in the destruction, loss,
the unauthorized alteration or disclosure of personal data must be managed in accordance with the
requirements of Articles 33 and 34 of the GDPR.

Data controllers must notify personal data breaches to the CNPD within
a period of 72 hours after becoming aware of it if the violation in question is likely to cause a
risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

The CNPD would like to point out that the following statistics are only based on data breaches at
personal nature which have been notified to the CNPD. They do not reflect the complete number of security incidents
in relation to personal data that occurs in organizations. The CNPD does not know
not the total number of incidents which is difficult to estimate. However, data controllers are required
maintain documentation of all security incidents involving personal data.

In 2020, 379 data breaches were notified to the CNPD, 25 more than in 2019.

39

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT CAUSES OF VIOLATIONS

Internal non-malicious act (64%)
Malicious internal act (6%)
External non-malicious act (4%)
Malevolent external act (24%)
Others (2%)

In total, since the entry into force of the GDPR on May 25, 2018, the National Commission has received 905 violations
of data. This corresponds to an average of 29 data breach notifications per month.

The main cause of personal data breach remains human error (internal act not
malicious) in 64% of cases.

Most human errors occur:
• when an existing procedure is not followed;
• when an existing security rule is circumvented: this type of case has been the subject of incidents with consequences

important;

• when staff are not sufficiently aware of the rules of confidentiality to be applied;
• following a careless error: depending on the context, the implementation of a control mechanism before

transmission of data (e.g. 4-eye principle) would probably have avoided this type of incident.

40

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 Malicious external acts are the cause of almost a quarter of the breaches notified. This guy
often has a greater impact on the people involved. In many cases, these
acts target the access or obtaining of data that allows financial transactions to be carried out without the knowledge
of the persons concerned (e.g. interception of bank payment card data, phishing to obtain
connection information to a payment service, identity theft to carry out a transaction
financial, etc).

Malicious internal acts occurred mainly during the departure, voluntary or not, of employees
of an organization and in particular the members of the management in medium or small structures: this
situation causes people to copy data for potential use in their new situation.
Similarly, situations of cessation of activity / merger / takeover of companies are periods of risk for companies.
unauthorized exfiltration of data. These acts are often the consequence of a lack of knowledge of the framework
legal or technical and frequently give rise to complaints to the public prosecutor's office.

The other scenarios are related to technical bugs which often result in the disclosure of data to
personal nature to unauthorized third parties (e.g. setting up or updating a new online service, case
unplanned use of a service, etc.).

Type of impact

Almost all data breaches have an impact related to loss of data privacy
concerned. We note the appearance of mixed cases concerning "ransomeware" type attacks that combine
a loss of availability but also more and more regularly a loss of confidentiality following the exfiltration
partial or total data. Data controllers are generally in difficulty when it comes to the analysis of
this type of incident, mainly because of the insufficient or unsuitable level of detail of the available logs.

Structural analysis

The health sector, due to the sensitivity and volume of information it processes, encounters a significant number
security incidents involving personal data. COVID-19 and computer processing
relative have further accentuated this state. However, we note the efforts of this sector and more particularly of the
data protection officers, in order to deal with and prevent these incidents by raising awareness among staff or
further harmonization work on risk analysis methodologies.

In the field of banking and insurance, data controllers seem to have analytical grids
risk very different from one manager to another, thus leading some of them, despite being of significant size,
little or no notification.

41

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT NATURE OF INCIDENTS

NATURE OF INCIDENTS
NATURE OF IMPACT

Personal data
sent to the wrong recipient (33%)
Hacking, hacking (15%)
Disclosure of personal data
from the wrong person (12%)
Unintentional posting (12%)
Lost or stolen device (8%)

Phishing, Phishing (5%)
Technical issue (4%)
Lost, stolen, unsecured papers (3%)
Mail lost, opened (3%)
Malware, malicious software (2%)
Unauthorized verbal communication (1%)
Improper data destruction
personal on paper (1%)
Others (1%)

Confidentiality (90%)
Availability (4%)
Integrity (6%)

42

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 POTENTIAL NUMBER OF PEOPLE
IMPACTED PER INCIDENT

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

CN

1

2 to 5

6 to 10

11 to 50

51 to 100

101 to 1000

(NC = number of people
affected by the breach
not known - it may be
the case during an exfiltration
data from a
system whose logging
data access to
personal character is wrong
adapted or non-existent)

NUMBER OF DAYS BETWEEN BEGINNING OF INCIDENT
AND INCIDENT DETECTION

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

CN

1

2 to 5 days

6 to 10 days

11 to 30 days

31 to 60 days

More than 60 days

(NC = Start date of
incident not known)

Small and medium-sized businesses sometimes have difficulty understanding the notification management process
both in the prevention of incidents and in their management. The real estate sales sector is a
perfect illustration of this problem.

More than half of security incidents are detected no later than 5 days after their occurrence. Nevertheless,
the CNPD found that almost 10% of personal data breaches are only detected at
minimum one month after having occurred: these are more particularly incidents related to continuous violations
the organisation's security policy (e.g. management personnel send professional data
on their personal email to work from home and the personal email is hacked), data used by
employees when leaving an organization and also data theft linked to undetected hacks.

The CNPD also draws the attention of data controllers to the fact that a certain number of acts of
hacking and phishing are targeted at the management staff of an organization and their entourage (ex:
management assistant/secretary). These malicious acts are often aimed at obtaining information
enabling fraudulent financial transactions.

43

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT DATA BREACHES IN THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR

In accordance with Regulation (EU) n°611/2013 of the European Commission of June 24, 2013, suppliers
electronic communications services available to the public, such as fixed telephone companies/
mobile phone or Internet access providers, must notify the CNPD within 24 hours of the observation
of a breach of security and confidentiality of personal data and, in addition, inform their
subscribers in the event that the incident observed is likely to adversely affect the level of protection of their
privacy and data concerning them.

In order to facilitate the task of providers of electronic communications services, the National Commission
provides a security breach notification form available on its website. This form
lists all the relevant questions that suppliers will have to answer in such a situation.

In 2020, no data breaches in the electronic communications sector were reported to
the CNPD.

44

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 RETENTION OF TRAFFIC AND LOCATION DATA

As a reminder, European Directive 2006/24/EC on data retention had been transposed
at the national level by the law of July 24, 2010 amending the law of May 30, 2005 on the protection of
privacy in the electronic communications sector. The purpose of this guideline was to
keep for a certain period of time the data processed by the telecommunications operators and
internet service providers for research, detection and prosecution purposes
offences. One of the major challenges of this directive was to maintain the balance between, on the one hand,
part, access to data processed by electronic communications providers in the
framework of the fight against terrorism and serious crime, and, on the other hand, the protection of life
deprived of citizens.

However, the directive was annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union on April 8, 2014
by the “Digital Rights Ireland” judgment. However, the national transposition laws have not been
modified accordingly and the National Commission has not received any instructions in this context from
his supervising ministry. She continues to transmit to him annually with a view to their continuation at the
European Commission for Statistics on Data Retention under Articles 5 and
9. To this end, the service providers or operators retain and continue to the Commission
at the request of the latter, information including in particular:

• the cases in which information has been transmitted to the competent authorities in accordance with

to the applicable national legislation,

• the lapse of time between the date from which the data was stored and the date

to which the competent authorities have requested their transmission,

• cases in which data requests could not be fulfilled.

In 2020, the competent authorities made 2,990 requests to operators. This digit
increased slightly (+13%) compared to 2019 when 2,601 requests were
been made.

45

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 8 MONITORING AND ADOPTING CORRECTIVE MEASURES

To ensure compliance with applicable data protection legislation, the Commission
national authority has investigative powers to verify the application of the rules on the protection of
data. In the event of processing contrary to the regulations, the CNPD may adopt corrective measures
(e.g. warning, call to order, temporary or definitive limitation or prohibition of processing, imposition
an administrative fine, etc.).

46

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 The CNPD can launch investigations following complaints (reactive approach) or on its own initiative
(proactive approach). These investigations can be carried out in the form of on-the-spot checks or in the form
of audits. When the CNPD wishes to verify compliance with a specific GDPR theme, the
investigations can take the form of on-the-spot checks or sample audits
organizations selected on the basis of risk criteria, such as sector of activity or size
of the organization, the number of data subjects or the type of data processed.

The power of investigation allows the CNPD to obtain from the controller or processor access to:

• all personal data that is processed and, in general, all information

necessary for the exercise of its mission;

• all premises, in particular any installation and any processing means.

The regulation relating to the investigation procedure adopted by the CNPD on January 22, 2020, at the same time as its
rules of procedure, specifies the conduct of such an investigation (see box).

While taking into account the adversarial principle, this regulation defines the different stages of the process
an investigation of the opening decision by the College of Commissioners sitting in plenary formation, in
going through its instruction until the communication of any grievances raised by the head of investigation.
 
The decision following an investigation is finally taken by the College of Commissioners sitting in formation
(the "Restricted Training") on the basis of the proposals of the head of investigation formulated in the communication
grievances.

In the first half of 2020, the CNPD transposed the provisions of the regulation relating to the procedure
of investigation to all the investigations in progress since 2018 and a significant number of proposed decisions
was transferred to the Restricted Formation for decision-making.

It should be noted that in comparison with previous years, the number of investigations (checks and audits) was low.
high due to pandemic restrictions.

 

CONTROLS

The CNPD carries out proactive on-site inspections as part of thematic campaigns (video surveillance
and COVID-19 – see below) or reactive controls following incidents notified, complaints received,
information relayed in the media or following a previous check.

47

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT These controls are carried out through on-site visits not announced in advance.

The CNPD carried out 8 on-site visits in 2020. These investigations related to the field of video surveillance and
the regularity of treatments in connection with the fight against COVID-19.

At the end of 2020, the investigation files of the control campaign concerning video surveillance and geolocation
started in 2018 were passed on to the Restricted Panel, which adopted its first decisions in early 2021.

In addition, the CNPD launched, at the beginning of December 2020, a control campaign to verify compliance
with respect to the GDPR of the collection and use of personal data put in place by the
organizations as part of the measures they have taken to combat the spread of the pandemic
COVID-19. This campaign is part of the CNPD's ongoing monitoring of specific features and risks
in terms of data protection induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Site visits for this campaign
started in December 2020 and continued throughout 2021 on a sample of 20 organizations
public and private of all sizes and from various sectors of activity.

AUDITS

 
 
With the entry into force of the GDPR, the CNPD has also set up surveys according to the methodology
audit, particularly well suited when it comes to verifying compliance with data protection legislation.
personal data in a more complex organizational or technical context.

As with on-the-spot checks, audits can be organized either reactively in the context of a
investigation decided following a complaint received, either proactively in the form of a thematic campaign
relating to selected obligations of the regulation. Such audit campaigns carried out with organizations
selected on the basis of sampling criteria specific to the chosen theme, allow the CNPD
to assess the level of compliance of organizations with data protection.

Given the impact of the new role of the data protection officer and the importance of its integration into
the company, the CNPD had decided to launch a first thematic audit in September 2018 on the function
data protection officer (DPO). The objective of this campaign was to verify the compliance of
organizations with the obligations of the GDPR in terms of appointing the DPO, his missions and his functions.

In 2020, 21 files (out of 25 in total) were transferred to the Restricted Panel which will make its decisions at the end
of each of these surveys. Many of these decisions will be made during 2021. In addition
individual decisions published anonymously, it is planned to publish the results of this campaign
in the form of guidelines or recommendations in order to enable data controllers or data processors to
contractors to benefit from the good and avoid the bad practices identified during the audits.

48

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 An audit on the theme of transparency was launched in 2020 and 6 surveys of companies in the
e-commerce have been opened in this context.

Transparency is not a new concept but a well-established principle and obligation in terms of
Protection of personal data. Its primary objective is to build trust between managers
processing and data subjects. However, the notion of transparency takes on an even more
strong with the GDPR and the new principle of accountability, to which it is intrinsically linked.
The principle of transparency allows data subjects to control their personal data and
to hold data controllers to account in this regard.

The e-commerce sector was targeted in the choice of companies to be audited. Indeed, by the very specificities
industry, transparency is more important. Another motivation that guided the CNPD to choose
this theme was the fact that the e-commerce sector experienced exceptionally strong growth during the
pandemic and during confinement.

 

CORRECTIVE MEASURES

As part of its missions, the CNPD has, among other things, the power to adopt corrective measures
provided for in Article 58.2 of the GDPR (e.g. warning, call to order, compliance, temporary limitation,
definitive, or prohibition of processing, etc.), including the power to impose administrative fines in
application of Article 83 of the GDPR in addition to or instead of other corrective measures depending on the
characteristics specific to each case.

Violations by the controller of the GDPR may be subject to administrative fines which may
amount to up to twenty million euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the previous financial year,
the highest amount being retained. The GDPR nevertheless requires that sanctions be “effective, proportionate
and dissuasive" - this implying that in each specific case, the elements listed in Article 83.2 of the GDPR
taken into account, such as the nature, gravity and duration of the violation, the number of people
data subjects affected and the level of damage they have suffered, the categories of personal data
affected by the breach or whether the breach was willful or negligent.

A corrective measure can only be pronounced by the National Commission sitting in restricted formation
when taking a decision on the outcome of an investigation in accordance with article 41 of the law of 1 August 2018
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
Data protection.

The first decisions of the National Commission sitting in restricted formation on the outcome of investigations carried out
since 2018 will be taken and published in 2021.

49

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT THE CNPD INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE

The opening of an investigation may be proposed at any time by a member of the College in accordance
in article 38 of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018. He submits this proposal to the College which approves it
within a period of one month by a majority of votes and which appoints a member of the College, with the exception
of the President, as chief of investigation.

The investigation file is then instructed by the head of investigation on the basis of the information, statements and/or
or documents collected during the investigation, including through any interviews and/or requests
additional information. At the end of the investigation, the head of investigation retains the violations
alleged to the GDPR that it intends to materialize in the form of grievances. Grievances are then forwarded to the
controlled which will have the possibility of responding to it in a contradictory way.

These possible exchanges are included in the investigation file which will be sent to the Restricted Panel.
In the event that the head of investigation does not identify or retain any grievance, he transmits to the
Training Restricts a closing proposal.
     
Pursuant to Article 10 2° b) of the CNPD's internal rules adopted by decision
No. 3AD/2020 of January 22, 2020, the National Commission sitting in restricted formation informs
the control of the date of the meeting during which the case concerning him is registered and of the
faculty offered to him to be heard there. During the said session, the head of the investigation is heard to
present oral observations on the case and, when he attends the session, the controlee is invited
to present oral observations.

Following these sessions, the National Commission sitting in restricted formation takes up the case.
deliberate. The decisions it takes are published anonymously, unless anonymization
is not possible or if the CNPD has decided to apply article 52 of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018,
that is to say, to order the publication of a decision in full and by name.

50

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 9 CONTROLLING DATA PROCESSING BY THE AUTHORITIES
  LAW ENFORCEMENT OR NATIONAL SECURITY

In application of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the CNPD is
also competent to control the processing of data carried out by the law enforcement authorities or the authorities
national security, such as the Grand Ducal Police, the State Intelligence Service, the National Authority
Security or Customs Administration.

Article 10 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime also provides that the annual report of the CNPD
must include a list of the types of violations notified and the types of penalties imposed under the law
of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.

 

INFORMATION REQUESTS

The CNPD handled 22 written or oral requests for information on data processing in the
law enforcement and national security. Half of the requests concerned the exercise of the rights of individuals
concerned, in particular the right of access. Without claiming to be exhaustive, the CNPD was also asked to
respond to criminal or public safety questions regarding CCTV at the premises
public and in private places, the use of dashcams on public roads and the processing of data
personal character with a view to filing a criminal complaint.

51

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD In the context of the “Central file”, the CNPD took part in several meetings of the monitoring group for
“recommendations formulated by the CNPD and the IGP relating to the processing of personal data
carried out by the Grand-Ducal Police”, composed of representatives of the Grand-Ducal Police, the General Inspectorate
the police, the Ministry of Internal Security, the Ministry of Justice, the General Prosecutor's Office and the CNPD.

The CNPD took part in a meeting with the National Crime Prevention Service of the Grand-Police
ducale on video surveillance in private homes.

 

NOTICE

The CNPD has adopted 4 opinions relating to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in
matters of national security.

These are positions concerning:

• video surveillance for police purposes (VISUPOL) (2 opinions);
• the creation of the National Security Authority;
• the automated control and penalty system (red light cameras).

The opinion regarding “VISUPOL” is summarized below. The other notices can be consulted on the CNPD website at
the address https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/rapports/index.html.

Video surveillance for police purposes (VISUPOL)

The CNPD notified draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police
grand ducal.

The purpose of the bill is to give the police video surveillance system a legal framework following
the repeal of the legal basis governing the latter with the entry into force of the law of August 1, 2018 on
organization of the National Data Protection Commission and the general data protection regime
Datas.
 
In general remarks on the scope of the bill, the CNPD welcomed the choice of the
government to legally regulate the installation, management and operation of cameras in public spaces by
the Grand Ducal Police thus taking the example of its neighbours, Belgium, Germany and France. Nevertheless, the
National Commission found that the government had adopted a restrictive approach to the installation

52

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 video surveillance devices for public security purposes, limiting their use to the police. THE
municipal officials, many of whom also want to have such devices in order to ensure the safety
public spaces in their municipalities cannot therefore install such surveillance measures. The CNPD has
recalled that the police video surveillance system called "VISUPOL" was limited to the territory of the City of
Luxemburg. Therefore, for a municipality, as data controller, to be able to install a
similar device in public spaces and for public security purposes, a legal text would be needed offering it
such a possibility. In this regard, the National Commission recommended taking the example of legislators
Belgians and French.

In its comments on article 1 of the bill adding a new article 43 bis to the amended law of 18
July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, the CNPD notably underlined the imperative to respect the law as well as
European Union case law.

Indeed, the National Commission welcomed the efforts made to respect the principles of accessibility and
transparency of the draft law as well as the quality of the latter, in particular with regard to the delimitation of the
public places presenting risks and ministerial authorization for the installation of the VISUPOL system in
these latter.

Finally, in terms of the proportionality of data processing and appropriate safeguards for safeguarding
fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, the CNPD considered that the masking procedures of the system
VISUPOL must include the interior of a private place. Regarding the retention period of images
collected, the National Commission considered that the two-month period was proportionate with regard to the purposes
continued.

 

COMPLAINTS

The CNPD has received 11 criminal and national security complaints in cases where those responsible
of the processing have not complied, have not responded at all or have responded insufficiently to requests
access to the data of data subjects. This figure remains comparable to that of the year 2019 when the CNPD
had received 10 complaints in this area.

 

NOTIFICATION OF DATA BREACHES

Data controllers must notify personal data breaches to the CNPD within
a period of 72 hours after becoming aware of it, if the violation in question is likely to cause a
risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

53

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Between August 20, 2018 (entry into force of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission
National Data Protection and General Data Protection Regime) and 31 December
2020, the CNPD received two notifications of data breaches concerning data processing at
personal character in criminal matters, as well as in matters of national security.

 

CONTROLS PROVIDED FOR BY SPECIFIC LEGAL PROVISIONS

In criminal matters and national security, certain national and European legislative provisions provide for
that the CNPD carries out on-site visits and/or specific and regular audits.

In this context, and on the basis of article 43 of the law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, the CNPD has
started in 2019 an audit of access to certain state files of members of the Police having the status of officer
judicial police or administrative police officer. This audit, still in progress due to the pandemic
COVID-19, covers in particular the following aspects: allocation of access, compliance with the “need to know, need
to do”, availability of newspapers and reasons for consultations.

The CNPD must also carry out data protection audits at party level every four years.
European information systems (Schengen Information System) SIS II and VIS (Visa Information
System (VIS) as well as regular reviews of the logs of these information systems.

 

EUROPEAN COOPERATION

Coordinated supervision of data processing in EU information systems and by bodies,
European offices and agencies will be gradually transferred from coordination groups (such as the Group of
SIS II Supervision Coordination Group or the European Information System Supervision Coordination Group
Customs) to the Coordinated Supervisory Committee (CSC), created in December 2019 and since then operating under the aegis
of the EDPB.

The CSC brings together in its biannual meetings the supervisory authorities of the EU, the European Protection Supervisor
(EDPS), as well as the supervisory authorities of non-EU Schengen Member States
where EU law so provides.

The main objective of the CSC is to ensure the coordinated oversight of EU information systems and
EU bodies, offices and agencies in the areas of borders, asylum and migration (SIS, EES,
ETIAS and VIS), police and judicial cooperation (SIS, European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eurojust, ECRIS-TCN) and the market
interior (IMI).

54

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 The tasks of the Committee consist, in particular, in the support to be provided to the supervisory authorities in carrying out
audits and inspections, the preparation of work on the interpretation or application of legal acts of
the EU concerned and proposals for harmonized solutions, the study of problems related to the exercise of control
independent or the exercise and promotion of the rights of data subjects.

In 2020, the Committee published its work program for the period from 2020 to 2022 with the activities
planned:

• promoting the rights of data subjects;
• examination of difficulties in the interpretation or application of Community and national law;
• the exchange of information;
• carrying out joint audits or coordinated inspections;
• the preparation of supervision at the start of the activities of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and other EU bodies

and information systems that will fall within the scope of CCS in the future.

55

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 10 CONTRIBUTING TO INTERNATIONAL WORK IN THE FIELD
 

DATA PROTECTION

The activity of the National Commission was marked by strong participation in European work, dominated
by complex and technical files.

The National Commission, represented by one or more of its agents, took part in numerous
working groups at European and international level. These included:

56

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 • the European Data Protection Board (EDPB or European Data Protection Board), which brings together all
the European authorities as well as the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS or European Data
Protection Supervisor);

• the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners.

The following working meetings and conferences in which the CNPD regularly participates had to be canceled
due to the pandemic:

• the “Berlin Group”, dedicated to data protection in the electronic communications sector;
• the conference of European data protection commissioners;
• the European “Case Handling Workshop” seminar.

 

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD (EDPB)

The EDPB is an independent European body which contributes to the consistent application of the rules on
data protection within the European Union and encourages cooperation between EU authorities responsible for
of data protection.

It is composed of representatives of the national data protection authorities and the Supervisor
European data protection authority, in English “European Data Protection Supervisor” (EDPS).

The EDPB is established by the General Data Protection Regulation and is based in Brussels. There
European Commission has the right to take part in the activities and meetings of the Committee, but does not have the right
of voting.

The EDPB has a secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. A Memorandum of Understanding defines the terms of the
cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS.

The purpose of the EDPB is to ensure the consistent application of the General Data Protection Regulation as well as
as the European Directive on Data Protection in the field of law enforcement in the Union
European.

It can adopt general orientation documents in order to clarify the provisions of European legislative acts
in terms of data protection and, in this way, provide the actors concerned with a consistent interpretation
of their rights and obligations.

57

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT The GDPR also entrusts it with the mission of adopting decisions binding on the supervisory authorities
to ensure consistent application of its provisions.

The EDPB has adapted its way of working in the context of the pandemic and organized 27 plenary meetings, including 25
remotely bringing together its members (including the CNPD), compared to 11 plenary meetings per year in
average since its inception. This number of meetings is explained in particular by the intensification of the work of a
hand, due to the emerging issues in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic with regard to the protection of
data, and, on the other hand, by the legal tasks and the judgment Schrems II delivered on July 16, 2020 by the Court of
Justice of the European Union which questioned the mechanism/practices of transfers of personal data
personnel to third States from many actors.

Participation of the CNPD in sub-groups (“Expert SubGroups”)

Alongside the plenary meetings, the data protection authorities of the European Union meet within
thematic sub-groups (legal and IT).

The CNPD has therefore ensured its participation in the work and continues to be represented within all the sub-groups.
thematic experts and networks of the Committee, of which there are 14, as well as the biannual meetings of the
Coordinated Supervisory Committee (CSC).

These are the following Expert Subgroups:

• Border, Travel and Law Enforcement (BTLE);
• Compliance, e-Government and Health (CEH);
• Cooperation (COOP);
• Enforcement (ENF);
• Financial Matters (FMESG);
• Finishing Taskforce (FINES);
• International Transfer (ITS);
• IT User;
• Key Provisions (KEYP);
• Strategic Advisory (SAESG);
• Social Media (SOCM);
• Technology (TECH).

The CNPD also contributed to the work of two taskforces. One is responsible for examining complaints filed
following the Schrems II judgment of the CJEU and the other, the development of recommendations to help

58

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 controllers and processors in their task of determining and implementing
appropriate additional measures to guarantee adequate protection during the transfer of data to
third country.
 
The Luxembourg supervisory authority thus took part in 115 working group meetings in 2020, including 100 at
distance without counting the editorial team meetings. With plenary meetings, this amounts to a number
total of 142 meetings. The CNPD ensured the daily follow-up of the files treated at the level of the Committee
group level and has been involved in the drafting of various draft guidelines by assuming the role
of rapporteur.

Alongside many other ongoing projects, the CNPD has assumed the role of rapporteur for the following projects
finalized in 2020:

• Document on the procedure for approval of certification criteria by the EDPB leading to certification

joint, the European data protection seal;

• Guidance on the analysis of certification criteria;
• Opinion on CNPD accreditation criteria for certification bodies;
• Opinion on UK Supervisory Authority Accreditation Criteria for Certification Bodies;
• Stakeholder event within the framework of the draft guidelines on legitimate interest;
• Guidelines on the interaction of the text of the PSD2 directive and the GDPR;
• EDPB Support Expert Group Terms of Reference document.

The CNPD continued its contributions to the work in progress in 2020 on the following documents:

• Guidelines on “blockchain”;
• Use and retention of credit card data;
• Guidelines on voice assistants;
• Guidelines on the rights of data subjects.

During the year, the CNPD organized and moderated 5 workshops on certification under GDPR as part of
the implementation of these activities at the EDPB. The objective of these workshops was to prepare EDPB members to
the possibility of issuing opinions on the certification criteria under article 64.1.c of the GDPR. The result of these
work led to the drafting of the EDPB guidance on the assessment of certification criteria, including the CNPD
was also the rapporteur.

The CNPD has also volunteered to contribute to the ongoing work on the guidelines on
legitimate interest.

59

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Documents adopted in 2020

The EDPB has adopted numerous working documents, guidelines and letters. Some of these documents are summarized
below. They can all be downloaded in their full version from the Internet6.

Contribution to the evaluation of the GDPR by the European Commission

As part of the assessment of the GDPR by the European Commission, all the authorities that are members of the Committee,
including the CNPD, have contributed individual responses to a questionnaire on the evaluation of the GDPR two
years after its implementation sent by the European Commission to the Committee. Based on these answers
EDPB members developed a common response to the European Commission.

The Committee concludes in the communication that it is premature to revise the GDPR. He is convinced that cooperation
between supervisory authorities will lead to a common culture and consistent practice and presents solutions
possible but recognizes at the same time the difficulties in the application of the GDPR resulting from the mosaic of
national procedures. In June 2020, the European Commission confirmed the Committee's analyses.

Guidelines

The EDPB has adopted 9 new guidelines aimed at clarifying the range of GDPR provisions. The lines
guidelines adopted concerned:

- connected vehicles and mobility-related applications;

  The guidelines focus on the processing of personal data in relation to

the non-professional use of connected vehicles by the persons concerned.

- transfers of personal data between public authorities and bodies in the EEA and non-members

of the EEA;

  This guidance aims to provide guidance on the application of Article 46(2)(a)
and paragraph 3, point b), of the GDPR relating to transfers of personal data from authorities or
public bodies in the EEA to public bodies in third countries or to international organisations, in
to the extent that these are not covered by an adequacy decision taken by the European Commission.
Public bodies may choose to use these mechanisms, which the GDPR considers to be better
adapted to their situation, but they are also free to rely on other relevant tools offering
appropriate guarantees in accordance with Article 46 of the GDPR.

6 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents_en

60

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 - consent;

  These guidelines provide an in-depth analysis of the concept of consent in the GDPR. The concept
of consent as used hitherto in the Data Protection Directive (“Directive
95/46/EC) and in the “privacy and electronic communications” Directive has evolved. The GDPR brings
clarifications and additional details on the conditions for obtaining and demonstrating a
valid consent.

- the interaction between the second Payment Services Directive (PSD2) and the GDPR;

  The Committee clarifies the roles, the conditions under which the new service providers of initiation of
(PSIP) and account information service providers (PSIC) for which PSD2 introduces
legal framework, can access payment account information. The guidelines for
which the CNPD was rapporteur in 2020, recall that the processing of sensitive data is in principle
prohibited, if the controller has not obtained the explicit consent of the data subject or if
the processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest.

- the concepts of controller and processor;

  These guidelines provide guidance on the question of the criteria by which to qualify the different
actors as controller, processor or joint controller. The document
provides important clarifications on the evolution of these concepts due to the entry into force of the GDPR
and several judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The guidelines are complemented by
graphic illustrations making it easier to understand the different concepts.

- the targeting of social media users;

  These guidelines aim to provide practical guidance to stakeholders and contain various
examples of situations allowing these stakeholders to quickly identify the closest “scenario”
of the targeting practice they intend to deploy. The document aims to clarify in particular the roles and
responsibilities of the social media provider and to identify potential risks to the rights and freedoms
of the persons concerned.

- relevant and reasoned objections;

  As part of the cooperation mechanism established by the GDPR, supervisory authorities have a duty to exchange
any relevant information and to cooperate in an effort to reach a consensus. In accordance with Article 60,

61

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD paragraphs 3 and 4, of the GDPR, the lead supervisory authority is required to submit a draft decision
("draft decision") to the supervisory authorities concerned, who may then raise an objection
relevant and reasoned within a specific deadline.

  Two options are available to the lead supervisor when it receives a relevant and reasoned objection
(“reasoned and relevant objection”). If it does not follow this objection or considers that it is not motivated or
relevant, it refers the matter to the Committee within the framework of the consistency control mechanism (Article
65 GDPR). When, on the contrary, the lead supervisory authority intends to follow up the objection and submits a draft
revised decision, the supervisory authorities concerned may express a relevant and reasoned objection to the
the revised draft decision within two weeks.

  This guideline has made it possible to define more precisely what is meant by “relevant and reasoned objection”.

Work targeting the processing of personal data in the context of the fight against the epidemic of
COVID-19

In the context of the pandemic, the EDPB has undertaken to advise governments, authorities, responsible for the
treatment and developers of digital solutions to enable them to overcome the challenges posed by the crisis
of COVID-19 while respecting the fundamental rights to data protection and privacy.

Here is a selection of the work finalized by the Committee made public during the year:

• In guidelines on the use of location data and contact tracing tools
to combat COVID-19, the Committee responds to certain initiatives taken by governments to
fight the pandemic, including the use of location data or contact tracing, in
indicating which may be acceptable purposes while insisting on the principles of efficiency,
necessity and proportionality;

• The statement on the impact of data protection on the interoperability of tracing applications
contacts contains a more in-depth analysis of key aspects, including transparency, the basis
legal status, the status of data controller, the rights of data subjects, the storage and
data minimization, information security and data accuracy in the creation
an interoperable network of applications;

• Guidelines on the processing of health data for research purposes aim to shed light on questions
urgent legal issues that were emerging in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic regarding the use of
health data;

• The EDPB responded to a request for consultation from the European Commission concerning its project
of guidelines on applications to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. In his response,
the EDPB specifically addressed the use of apps for the contact tracing function and

62

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2020 alert. In this area, increased attention must be given to minimizing the impact on the protection
privacy while allowing the processing of data for the purpose of safeguarding public health;

• The declaration on the rights of data subjects in relation to the state of emergency in the Member States
essentially recalls the main principles applicable to the limitations of the rights of data subjects and
recalls that, even in a state of emergency, the protection of personal data must be preserved
in all emergency measures of a rule of law. According to the statement, the Committee had also given
a mandate to the “Key Provisions” sub-committee to work on guidelines on the limitations of rights
people concerned in general. These guidelines have been submitted for public consultation;

• The declaration on the processing of personal data in the context of the reopening of borders
Schengen following the COVID-19 pandemic is particularly aimed at measures such as screening for
COVID-19, the requirement for certificates issued by health professionals and the use of a
voluntary contact tracing.

European cooperation in the context of Brexit

Preparation for Brexit, including the impact on borders, free movement and the exchange of data between forces
of the order of the Member States and the United Kingdom has been the subject of several declarations and information notes which
have been published on the Committee's website.

The EDPS has published a statement on the end of the Brexit transition period, in which it describes the main
implications of the end of this period for data controllers and processors.
The European Data Protection Supervisor insisted in particular on the question of the mechanisms for
data transfers to a third country as well as the consequences in the field of surveillance
regulation and the one-stop-shop mechanism.

Recommendations

The EDPB has issued recommendations on European essential safeguards for surveillance measures
and on the measures that complement the transfer tools to ensure compliance with the level of data protection
of a personal nature from the EU.

These recommendations, to which the CNPD provided its support within the dedicated taskforce, have as
objective of helping data exporters to comply with the Schrems II judgment, which requires
identify and implement effective additional measures where needed. It is therefore
to allow lawful transfers of personal data to third countries while guaranteeing
that the data transferred benefit from a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in
the EEA.

63

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Recommendations contain a roadmap of steps that data exporters should follow and
a non-exhaustive list of examples of additional measures and the conditions under which they may
be effective.

This document should be read in conjunction with the recommendations on European Core Safeguards
providing data exporters with elements to enable them to determine whether the legal framework governing
access by public authorities to data for surveillance purposes in third countries can be considered
as a justifiable interference with the rights to privacy and data protection
staff.

Both documents were submitted for public consultation after their adoption. A final version will be adopted
in 2021.

Consistency Notice

In order to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR in cases with cross-border implications, the EDPB has
issued 31 consistency opinions.

These opinions concerned in particular the draft lists submitted by supervisory authorities concerning
processing operations for which a DPIA is required, as well as those for which no DPIA is
required. The other opinions related to standard contractual clauses, Binding Corporate Rules (BCR),
the powers of the supervisory authorities and the criteria for approving the organizations responsible for monitoring the codes
of conduct or certification.

The first opinions on the accreditation criteria for certification bodies have been adopted by the Committee.
The CNPD submitted its accreditation criteria (“GDPR CARPA”) to the EDPB at the same time as the authority of the
United Kingdom. She was co-rapporteur with the EDPB secretariat for the opinion on the accreditation criteria
of the UK authority, while the latter was co-rapporteur with the EDPB Secretariat for the opinion
rendered on the CNPD accreditation criteria. These opinions aim to establish a coherent and harmonized approach
regarding the requirements that supervisory authorities and national accreditation bodies will apply when
accreditation of certification bodies. This work constitutes an important step towards the delivery
by the EDPB of notices of approval of the certification criteria and therefore towards the European seal of protection of
data.

Guidelines on the analysis of certification criteria for which the CNPD was rapporteur in 2020
will support the efforts of the control authorities in the promotion and implementation of the European seal of
Data protection.

64

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 Binding decisions

The EDPB also acts as a dispute resolution body and issues binding decisions. In 2020,
it issued its first binding decision regarding a dispute that arose following the draft decision of
the Irish authority regarding the company Twitter.

New register of decisions taken by national authorities

The EDPB has published on its website a new register containing the decisions taken by the national authorities of
data protection following the cooperation procedure with the “one-stop shop” mechanism (Article.
60 GDPR).

Under the GDPR, supervisory authorities have a duty to cooperate in matters having a
cross-border to ensure consistent application of the GDPR. Within the framework of this "one-stop shop" mechanism
unique” (in English “OSS” or “One-Stop-Shop mechanism”), the lead supervisory authority is in charge
to prepare draft decisions and works with the other supervisory authorities concerned to reach a
consensus.

Until the beginning of June, the supervisory authorities adopted 110 decisions under the window mechanism
unique. The register includes access to decisions as well as summaries of decisions in English prepared
by the EDPB secretariat. This register will be an important source of information for practitioners of the
data protection who will have access to information showing how the supervisory authorities
work together to enforce the GDPR in practice. The information contained in the register has been
validated by the lead authorities in question and in accordance with the conditions provided for by the legislation
national.

Strategy 2021-2023

At the end of 2020, the EDPB adopted its 2021-2023 strategy, which defines the strategic objectives of the Committee,
gathered around four pillars, as well as three key actions per pillar to help achieve these objectives.

The four pillars of the EDPB strategy are:

• promote harmonization and facilitate compliance;
• supporting the effective application of the rules and effective cooperation between national supervisory authorities;
• an approach to new technologies based on fundamental rights;
• the global dimension.

65

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The strategy will also be implemented through a work programme, which will further detail the
EDPB actions. This work program will be adopted at the beginning of 2021.

As part of its 2021-2023 strategy, the EDPB has decided to create a group of support experts based on
a “Support Pool of Experts” (SPE) pilot project. The objective is to provide material support to its members
in the form of expertise useful for investigations and enforcement activities and to improve
cooperation and solidarity between EDPB members by sharing, strengthening and complementing strengths,
as well as meeting operational needs.

 

GLOBAL PRIVACY ASSEMBLY

The “Global Privacy Assembly” (GPA) is a forum for discussion on a global scale, where 130 members share
best practices and adopt common positions. Founded in 1979, it was known as
“International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners” (ICDPPC) until 2019. This
name change reflects the will of this assembly to strengthen its visibility and its position as an actor
effective and influential at the international level.

The CNPD participated in the 2020 "At your desk" edition of the international conference on Global Privacy
Assembly. Initially scheduled in Mexico, the 41st conference took place online in 3 sessions of 3 hours
from October 13 to 15, 2020.

The data protection authorities as well as some NGOs reflected together on the challenges posed by the
COVID-19 in terms of data protection and privacy.

The discussions focused on important issues such as:

• the global interoperability of laws and regulations relating to data protection and the protection of

private life ;

• developing innovative regulatory cooperation approaches to address AI challenges;
• the relationship between data protection and other rights and freedoms;
• ways to improve cooperation between authorities in investigations;
• the promotion of cooperation between the authorities responsible for data protection, data protection and

consumers and competition;

• ways to address privacy and data protection in digital education and data protection

children's privacy.

The CNPD contributed to the following working groups:

66

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 The 2020 “At your desk” edition of the international conference of the “Global Privacy Assembly”. From left to right: Jérôme Commod,
Tine A. Larsen, Marc Lemmer and Romy Schaus.

• Digital Education Working Group: technical support for the reorganization and revitalization of the

sharing of CIRCABC educational tools;

• Policy Strategy Working Group: co-drafting of the Digital Economy Background Paper;
• Legal framework and practices of data protection authorities relating to the exercise of the rights of minors;
• COVID-19 related Privacy and Data Protection Issues Working Group: Resolution on privacy challenges

and data protection in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Several resolutions were passed at the international conference. The CNPD was co-sponsor of two
between them :

• the resolution on international humanitarian aid and
• the resolution on joint statements on emerging global issues.

One of the most striking resolutions was that on the challenges related to privacy and data protection.
in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.

In this resolution, GPA members recognized the important work done by the COVID-19 taskforce to
identify via a survey among the members of the assembly, the problems related to the protection of privacy that
emerged as a result of the pandemic:

67

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT • “contact tracing”, including digital contact tracing, which was the most pressing concern

courts;

• the processing of employee data in work-from-home and return-to-work situations;
• the processing of children's/students' data associated with the use of training and

online schooling;

• exchange of health data between hospitals, ministries of health and other agencies

competent governments.

The taskforce has developed a compendium of good practices in the context of the pandemic. It is designed as
a document likely to be updated by the members of the GPA.

According to the resolution, data protection authorities should continue to play a central role in providing
advice and assistance to governments, relevant organizations and other stakeholders
on how to process and share personal data in the context of the pandemic.

One of the decisions of the resolution is to build on the work carried out by the taskforce and to create a
new temporary working group (Working Group on Data Protection and Privacy Issues)
related to COVID-19), with an initial mandate of one year. This working group will have as its main mission
formulate recommendations and coordinate the responses of the GPA on issues arising in the
context of the COVID-19 pandemic and on the road to recovery.

The “Digital Education Working Group”

The priority of this working group is to make children, adolescents and adults more aware of the
data protection issues, as this strengthens their ability to claim their data protection rights.
data in the digital world.

An electronic library tool allows sharing between data protection authorities (DPAs) at the
world-class privacy education materials available and other online resources
line from both authorities and other stakeholders. The Commission's CIRCABC platform
European Union hosts this online tool created in 2015.

The CNPD, together with its French counterpart, the CNIL, defined and implemented the project to revitalize the
online bookstore to ensure that it remains effective and attractive. The goal of the project is to increase the use
made by the authorities, the promotion of the tool, the distribution of the didactic elements stored there and the encouragement
authorities to draw inspiration from this material for use in their country.

68

3ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDACTIVITIES IN 2020 As co-administrators, the two authorities updated the platform and set up a new
classification by type of training and resources and with new categories.

 
 

SPRING CONFERENCE OF EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION AUTHORITIES
AND THE “EUROPEAN CASE HANDLING WORKSHOP” SEMINAR

Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Conference of European Data Protection Authorities 2020
as well as the “European Case Handling Workshop” seminar had to be postponed. A working group has been re-established
which aims to define a vision for the future of the Conference. The group is made up of representatives from
Croatia, the United Kingdom, EDPS, Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands and the two previous hosts, to
namely Albania and Georgia.

To shed light on the work of the group, the members of the Conference, of which the CNPD is a member, contributed by
indicating in a questionnaire proposals concerning their ideas as to the future objective and direction of the
the conference.

69

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 1 HUMAN RESOURCES

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

19

25

38

43

0

10

20

30

40

Average age: 37.4 years Average length of service with the CNPD: 4.5 years

50

50

College
Tine A. LARSEN, President

Thierry LALLEMANG, Curator

Christophe BUSCHMANN, Curator

Marc LEMMER, Curator

Dani JEITZ,
Lawyer - Secretary of the College
“Plenary training”

Claudia Fetz,
Lawyer - Assistant Secretary of the College
“Restricted Training”

Alternate members
Michele Bram,
Deputy Director of the Luxembourg Institute
of Regulation (ILR)

Martine Kraus,
Vice-President at the District Court
from Luxemburg

Marc HEMMERLING,
Association of Banks and Bankers Luxembourg
(ABBL), member of the management committee

Francois THILL,
Ministry of the Economy, Trade Department
electronics and information security

70

4ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORTRESOURCES, STRUCTURES AND OPERATION Data Protection Officer
Bertrand NAVARRE,
Lawyer, Data Protection Officer
     
International relations
Romy Schaus,
Lawyer, in charge of European relations
and international
 
Administration department
Tine A. LARSEN,
President

Thierry RIES,
Head of Service

Jan KUFFER,
Head of “Internal IT & Logistics” Unit

Maryse WINANDY,
Head of “Reception/Secretariat” Unit

Cristina FERREIRA DA CUNHA
Trainee Writer, Accounting and Finance

Anna Magi,
Editor, Human Resources

Stephanie Mathieu,
Editor, Secretariat

Awareness Department
Marc LEMER,
Commissioner

Tom Kayser,
Head of Unit “External Communication”

Roberta RIBEIRO OERTEL,
Head of “Awareness & Training” Unit

Alexandre KUHN, IT Expert,
Legal and technological watch

Vincent LEGELEUX, IT Expert,
Legal and technological watch

Guidance Service
Thierry LALLEMANG,
Commissioner

Arnaud HABRAN,
Head of Service and Head of Unit “Transfers from third countries”

Francis MAQUIL,
Head of Unit "Requests for information"

Carmen SCHANCK,
Head of Unit “Legal Opinions”

Mathilde STENERSEN,
Head of Unit “Thematic Guidelines”

Nina Burmeister,
Lawyer, Requests for information

Celine DEROOSE,
Lawyer, Requests for information

Marie DOUXAL,
Lawyer, Legal advice

Kalliroi GRAMMENOU,
Lawyer, Third country transfers

Christian Welter,
Lawyer, Requests for information

Compliance Department
Marc LEMER,
Commissioner

Alain HERRMANN,
Head of Department and Head of Unit “Avis Analyzes
Impact”, “Certifications” and “Codes of Conduct”

Complaints Department
Thierry LALLEMANG,
Commissioner

Laurent MAGNUS,
Head of Service and Head of Unit
"National Complaints"

71

2020 CNPDANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPD Georges WEILAND,
Head of Unit “European Complaints”

Sabrine ABAAB,
Legal Counsel, European Claims

Jessica BLEEK,
Legal Counsel, European Claims

Gael Dumortier,
Lawyer, National Claims

Barbara Giroud,
Lawyer, National Claims

Nicolas RASE,
Lawyer, National Claims

Investigations Department
Christophe Buschmann,
Commissioner

Michael Sinner,
Head of Service and Head of Unit "Controls"

Edith MALHIERE,
Head of Unit "Audits"

Sebastien TEISSEIRE,
Head of Unit "Data Breach Notifications"

Christine Andres,
Investigator, Audits

Solene BENNET,
Investigator, Audits

Jerome COMMODI,
Investigator, Controls

Fanny DRATSCHMIDT,
Investigator, Audits

Marie-Laure FABBRI,
Investigator, Audits

Florent KLING,
Investigator, Controls

Marc Mostert,
Investigator, Controls

Bao-Khanh NGUYEN TRUNG,
Investigator, Controls

François Richalet,
Investigator, Audits

Mathieu RINCK,
Investigator, Audits

Celine SIMON-HERTZ,
Investigator, Controls

Maximilian Welsch,
Investigator, Controls

72

42020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNUAL REPORTRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION Swearing-in in 2020 of Mathilde Stenersen, Francis Maquil and Romy Schaus. From left to right: Thierry Lallemang, Mathilde
Stenersen, Francis Maquil, Tine A. Larsen, Christophe Buschmann, Romy Schaus and Marc Lemmer.

73

2020 CNPD2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 2 ORGANIZATION OF THE CNPD

At the end of 2019, the CNPD reorganized its services and adapted its organization chart in order to better be able to ensure its
missions and to facilitate the legibility of its activities and its organization.

The organizational chart below has been in effect since January 1, 2020.

NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR DATA PROTECTION

COLLEGE of the

Data Protection Officer

Secretary(ies) of the College of the National Commission

Head of European and International Relations

AWARENESS

GUIDANCE

COMPLIANCE

COMPLAINTS

INVESTIGATION

ADMINISTRATION

Communication

external

Requests

info

Opinions Analyzes

Impact

Complaints

national

Controls

Reception
& Secretariat

Sensitization
& Training

Notice

legal

Codes of
Conduct

Communications

european

Audits

Resources
human

Legal monitoring
& technological

Direct lines
themes

Certificates

Collaborations

Research
& Innovation

Transfers
third country

notices
violations
of data

Accounting
& Finance

internal IT

& Logistics

s
e
vs

I

v
r
e
S

s
e
you
I
not
U

74

42020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION Adoption of the internal rules, the procedure relating to complaints and the procedure relating to
to investigations

In 2020, the CNPD adopted several important documents concerning its internal organization and procedures
of work. These include the internal rules of procedure (ROI), the procedure relating to complaints
(described in more detail in part II.6. of this report) and the procedure relating to investigations (described more
in detail in Part II.8. of this report).

The internal rules of the CNPD were adopted pursuant to Articles 32 paragraph (1) and 33 of the
organic law of 1 August 2018 and defines the operating conditions, the organization of services and the rules
procedure applicable before the CNPD.

Chapter 1 describes the operating conditions of the CNPD and in particular the composition, business
day-to-day, external representation, financial management and the conduct of the deliberation sessions of the
College.

The organization of the departments and the general structure of the National Commission are presented in Chapter 2.
These are more particularly the services "Awareness", "Guidance", "Compliance", "Complaints",
“Investigations” and “Administration”. In addition, the following functions directly attached to the
National Commission: the Secretary(ies) of the College, the European and International Relations Officer and the
data protection officer.

Chapter 3 defines the procedures applicable before the CNPD in the following cases:

• Notification of a personal data breach;
• Prior consultation;
• Notification of the appointment of the Data Protection Officer;
• Approval of codes of conduct;
• Accreditation of organizations monitoring codes of conduct;
• Approval of certification criteria;
• Approval of certification bodies;
• Authorizations of contractual clauses and administrative arrangements;
• Approval of Binding Corporate Rules;
• Submission of a complaint;
• Requests for prior opinion under Article L. 261-1 of the Labor Code;
• Surveys;
•  Remedies.

75

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE 2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In May 2020, after carrying out a strategic and forward-looking reflection on its operation and its
missions, the National Commission for Data Protection (CNPD) has adopted the document “Strategy and
work program 2020-2022”. This document will enable it to better plan, coordinate and monitor its
activities during the relevant period and thus improve the management of its resources.

It is precisely in this order of ideas that a new organizational chart had already been adopted by the College
of the CNPD in January 2020, enabling it to face not only the challenges of a digital world, but
also to the paradigm shift brought about by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
and which is expressed by the switch from a priori control to a posteriori control.

The structure thus adopted provides since then and apart from the secretariat of the College, the person in charge of relations
European and international organizations as well as the data protection officer, the following six departments:

•  Sensitization ;
• Guidance;
•  Compliance ;
• Complaints;
• Surveys and
• Administration.

After the reinforcement of the workforce carried out between 2015 and 2018 in preparation for the changes
generated by the new European regulations on data protection, the strategic document
now aims to consolidate the operational teams. It is now a question of expanding the resources of the
different departments according to their respective needs, needs estimated at a total workforce of 62 FTE (equivalent
full-time) compared to a total authorized workforce of 54 FTE in December 2020. It should be noted that in the concern
to optimize the operation of the CNPD, the total workforce should have reached 62 FTEs in 2023. However, given the
reduction of the allocation allocated to the CNPD for the 2021 financial year and following, the recruitments planned for the
years 2021 to 2023 had to be carried over to the years 2025 to 2027.

With regard to expenditure for the 2020 financial year, it should be noted that the figures in question cannot be considered
as representative due to two factors that have largely influenced the operation and therefore
CNPD expenses.

It is first and obviously about the health crisis and the measures resulting from it, but also about
fitting out and moving to the new CNPD headquarters.

76

4ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION While the health crisis has resulted in a reduction in certain categories of expenditure, the development
new premises and the move generated additional costs.

The budget

The CNPD budget for the 2020 financial year amounted to €7,667,224, an increase of
40.88% compared to the budget of the previous year. The increase of €2,224,808 compared to 2019
results mainly from the reinforcement of the workforce, which in fact represents 84.73% of the total budget. Add to it
in addition, the rent and rental charges for the new headquarters, while the old premises were made available
by the Belval Fund at the cost of the charges.

Expenses

During the 2020 financial year, the total expenditure of the public establishment amounted to €6,336,137 compared to
to €4,799,182 in 2019, an increase of 32.03%, while remaining below the budget appropriation
granted and amounting to €7,667,224.

The budget surplus is mainly explained by a capital loss for personnel expenses in
due to the fact that following the health crisis and in view of the move to the new headquarters, all recruitments
planned from January 2020 had to be postponed until the end of the year, or even at the beginning of the following year.

It should be noted that the expenses relating to the development of the new headquarters amounting to €509,946 are not included or
in the total expenditure, nor in the amount of the budget appropriation granted for the 2020 financial year listed above.
Indeed, and in accordance with the decision of the College taken during the plenary session of May 27, 2020, the financing
related was realized through the allocation of the capital gain for the 2019 financial year.

 

1. Fixed assets

In compliance with article 46 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for
data protection and the general data protection regime providing that "the accounts of the
CNPD are held according to the rules of commercial accounting”, the expenses related to the acquisition of
furniture, software and computer equipment have been recorded in the balance sheet of the public institution; their
depreciation being recorded under operating costs.

In 2020, the additional furniture required as part of the fitting out of the new offices was
resulted in an expense of €70,644.

77

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Expenditure for the acquisition of new IT equipment amounted to €21,681, while
that in 2019 no corresponding expenditure was recorded.

 

2. Operating costs

Operating costs amounted to €806,279 compared to €405,529 in 2019, an increase
of €400,750 respectively 98.82%, without however exceeding the initial budget forecasts of a
amount of €1,033,260.

 

2.1. Overheads

The aforementioned increase of 98.82% results in particular from the fact that, following the increase in its workforce and given
the impossibility of the Belval Fund to offer a short-term solution to the needs of the CNPD, the latter
forced to move towards a rental on the private market. If the old seat had been gracefully put
made available by the Belval Fund, the CNPD must now bear the cost of the rent relating to its new
premises located in the NAOS building, as well as the related rental charges. In 2020, the fees in question
amounted to €547,657, an increase of €392,870 compared to 2019 where expenditure at
charge of this item in the amount of €154,787 mainly included the rent for the new headquarters (in progress
planning) due for the months of October to December 2019.

Expenditure relating to office equipment and supplies amounted to €19,924. The progress of
13.74% compared to 2019 follows the reinforcement of the workforce at the end of 2019 and during 2020.

With the move into the new premises, the related development and maintenance costs have gone from
€21,097 in 2019 to €42,335 for the year 2020. Since the surface of the new headquarters substantially exceeds
that of the old one, the costs related to daily cleaning have increased accordingly.

Documentation costs decreased by 37.28% from €10,716 in 2019 to €6,721 for the financial year
2020. The same applies to shipping and telecommunications costs which amounted in 2020 to
€10,426 compared to €11,418 in 2019, i.e. a decrease of 8.69%.

Professional fees amounting to €34,253 include expenses relating to the maintenance
accounting books, payroll management and auditing of accounts, an amount exceeding 76.99%
that of the expenses for the 2019 financial year amounting to €19,353. This increase is primarily due to a
increase in costs resulting from the management of salaries and then by the fact that in 2020 this position
included both the fees due to the auditor for the current year and the balance due for
the 2019 financial year.

78

4ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDRESOURCES,STRUCTURES ANDOPERATION Other general operating expenses in the amount of €19,107 remained stable except that an expense
exceptional at the rate of €30,448 is added to this for moving costs to the new premises.

 

2.2. Communication and public relations

Due to the health crisis, all meetings and conferences abroad have been replaced by video-
conferences so that travel, representation and public relations expenses in the amount of €9,002
remained well below budget forecasts amounting to €52,000 and the expenses incurred
in 2019 and amounting to €61,238, i.e. a reduction of 85.30%.

Communication and publication costs decreased from €33,571 in 2019 to €23,145 in 2020 and
include, among other things, the publication costs of the 2019 Annual Report amounting to €9,312 as well as the
advertisements relating to vacancies amounting to €8,566.

Due to the health crisis, no data protection awareness campaign has been possible.
be organised, so that the expenses charged to this item have been reduced to zero, whereas in 2019 they
amounted to €29,679.

 

2.3. IT costs

IT costs amounted to €63,261 in 2020 compared to €61,271 in 2019 and include
As in previous years, the hosting by a specialized company of the “CNPD Compliance Support” tool
Tool”, developed by the CNPD in cooperation with LIST (Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology) and the
Media and Communications Department for an amount of €54,405. Plus maintenance costs.
IT tools operated by the “Administration” department.

It should be noted that the expenditure for this item remained below the budget forecasts. Indeed, since
the migration in 2017 of IT systems to the services of the Information Technology Center
of the State (CTIE), the costs in question remained below forecasts due to the fact that the platform
"Sharepoint" working tool used since then by the CNPD, was able to be developed using exclusively
CTIE standard components. It follows that the system thus exploited can be operated on a standard platform
and pooling of the CTIE, allowing the related costs to be considerably reduced.

 

3. Personnel costs

The remuneration of the staff liquidated in 2020 amounted to €5,387,440 compared to €4,362,465
in 2019. This increase is due to significant recalculations resulting from the abolition of the reduction made on
internship allowances as well as the reinforcement of staff carried out in mid and end of 2019 and during 2020.

79

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT In addition to the four commissioners, the permanent staff included as of December 31, 2020:

• 39 staff in salary or allowance group A1, including 16 officials,
• 1 employee from indemnity group A2 as well as
• 5 staff in salary or allowance group B1, including 4 officials.

Added to this is a temporary A1 employee on a fixed-term contract.

Despite a considerable increase in the number of staff noted at the end of the year, actual expenditure remained in
below the budget forecast. Indeed, with the health crisis, some of the planned recruitments could not
be carried out only at the end of the year, respectively had to be postponed to the beginning of the following year.

Apart from salaries, staff costs also include an amount of €4,555 representing the
expenses relating to staff training. The increase compared to 2019 of the expenditure in question
follows the increase in the number of employees in service activity.
 
 

4. Other costs

In this case, these are the costs generated by the service car in the amount of €4,242, i.e. a reduction
of 42.21% compared to 2019 and resulting from a renegotiation with retroactive effect of the leasing contract based on
the distances actually traveled.

The depreciation of furniture and IT equipment recognized for an amount of €37,993 follows that of
investments made and represents an increase of 62.61% compared to €23,365 for the financial year
2019.

Added to this are bank charges and similar charges in the amount of €3,303.

 

5. Development of the new headquarters

Expenses relating to fitting out the new CNPD headquarters amounted to €509,946 and cover
among others

• interior partitioning and related work;
• the electrical and computer cabling as well as the related power supplies and connections;
• interior joinery and
•  The air conditioning.

80

4CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORTRESOURCES,STRUCTURES AND OPERATION Considering that the fitting out of the headquarters was financed through the allocation of the capital gain for the 2019 financial year,
the related expenses are expensed instead of being recognized as a fixed asset
bodily.

The recipes

If the CNPD does not have revenue in the proper sense of the term, it may nevertheless and under Article 47 of the
Law of 1 August 2018 organizing the National Commission for Data Protection and the regime
general on data protection, impose fees within the framework of its powers of authorization and
consultation. Although the CNPD adopted in 2020 a regulation setting the amount and terms of payment
related, no fees were collected in 2020.

Thus the receipts were limited to the rent relating to the subletting of the parking spaces included
in the lease relating to the headquarters located in the basement of the NAOS building and amounting to €20,045. Add another
amount of €762 representing, among other things, participation in the mPass costs of CNPD agents.

The operating result

Given the annual allocation of €7,667,224, including the National Commission for the Protection of
data has benefited from the State in application of article 47 of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018, the result
operating costs of the public establishment amounted to €934,270 as of December 31, 2020.

81

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 5 APPENDICES
 

OPINIONS AND DECISIONS
• Opinion relating to bill n°7511 relating to the processing of data concerning health in the field of
insurance and reinsurance and amending the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the
insurance sector.

  (Deliberation n°2/2020 of 01/27/2020)

• Opinion on bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the

Grand Ducal Police.

  (Deliberation n°04/2020 of February 28, 2020)

88

91

• Opinion on bill no. 7467 transposing certain provisions of the directive
(EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU)
2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering
capital or terrorist financing as well as Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/
EU; and amending: a) the amended law of 12 November 2004 on the fight against
money laundering and against the financing of terrorism; b) the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to
the organization of the notariat; c) the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of
County court bailiff ; d) the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; e) the amended law
of June 10, 1999 on the organization of the profession of chartered accountant; f) the amended law of 23
July 2016 on the audit profession.
  (Deliberation n°5/2020 of February 28, 2020)

100

82

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES • Opinion on bill no. 7216B 1) transposing: a) article 31 of the directive
(EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 relating to the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or the financing
terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and
repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2006/70/EC
of the Commission; and b) Article 1(16) of Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing
as well as directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU; 2) amending the amended law of
July 27, 2003 relating to trusts and fiduciary contracts; and 3) repealing the law of 10
August 2018 relating to the information to be obtained and kept by the trustees and transposing
of Article 31 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or
financing of terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and
of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive
2006/70/EC of the Commission.

  (Deliberation n°6/2020 of February 28, 2020)

• Additional opinion relating to bill no. 7216B transposing article 31 of the directive
(EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 relating to the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or the financing
terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and
repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2006/70/
Commission CE, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use
of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as
Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU.

   (Deliberation n°9/2020 of April 3, 2020)

• Additional opinion relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July

2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.

  (Deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020)

112

129

132

83

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD • Opinion on bill no. 7526 amending the amended law of 30 May 2005 relating to
specific provisions for the protection of the person with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in the electronic communications sector and amending Articles
88-2 and 88-4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

  (Deliberation n°11/2020 of April 24, 2020)

• Opinion on draft law no. 7606 introducing a series of measures concerning
natural persons in the context of the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) virus and modifying
1. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the supply to the public of medicinal products; 2. the
amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of
medications.

  (Deliberation n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020)

• Additional opinion relating to draft law no. 7606 introducing a series of measures
concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19)
and amending 1. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the issuance to the public of
medications ; 2. the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing on the market and
drug advertising.

  (Deliberation n°14/2020 of June 16, 2020)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation establishing the headquarters of the National Commission

for data protection.

  (Deliberation n°15/2020 of June 26, 2020)

• Opinion relating to draft law n°7622 1° introducing a series of measures to combat
Covid-19 pandemic; 2° amending 1) the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the issue
to the public of medicines; 2) the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing
on the market and advertising of medicinal products; 3° repealing 1) the law of 24 June 2020 on
introduction of a series of measures concerning sporting activities, cultural activities as well as
establishments open to the public, as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic;
2) the law of June 24, 2020 introducing a series of measures concerning persons
as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and amending the amended law of 11
April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products.

  (Deliberation n°16/2020 of July 8, 2020)

84

135

137

147

150

152

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES • Opinion on bill no. 7543 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the
Grand-ducal police and the draft grand-ducal regulation on: 1° setting the conditions and
modalities of the special test of the examination-competition for admission to the internship for the categories
treatment groups A and B and treatment group C1 of the police officer; 2° setting the conditions and
recruitment methods for the C2 treatment group of the police officer; 3° amending the
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 30 September 2015 setting the terms and conditions of registration
and organization of competitive examinations for admission to the internship in the administrations and services
of State.

  (Deliberation n°17/2020 of 07/17/2020)

• Opinion relating to draft law no. 7634 amending the law of July 17, 2020 introducing a series
measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the amended law of 25 November
1975 concerning the supply of medicines to the public; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983
regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products.

  (Deliberation n°18/2020 of July 21, 2020)

• Opinion on draft law n°7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and on
modification of: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of joint ownership of buildings
frames; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and the bodies
working in the social, family and therapeutic fields as well as the draft Grand-
ducal relating to the quality of services for the elderly.

   (Deliberation n°19/2020 of 07/22/2020)

• Opinion on draft law no. 7257 amending the amended law of 21 September

2006 on residential leases and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code.

  (Deliberation n°20/2020 of 07/28/2020)

• Opinion relating to bill no. 7645 amending the amended law of July 17, 2020 on
introduction of a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the law
amended of November 25, 1975 concerning the delivery of medicines to the public; 2° the law
amended of April 11, 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of
medications.

  (Deliberation n°22/2020 of September 10, 2020)

154

167

170

180

188

85

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT • Opinion on government amendments to bill no. 7683 amending 1) the amended law
of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic
and amending: 1° the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the delivery to the public of
medications ; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing on the market and
drug advertising; 2) the law of September 23, 2020 on measures concerning the
holding meetings in companies and other legal persons.

  (Deliberation n°23/2020 of October 27, 2020)

• Opinion on draft law n°7635 introducing a series of temporary measures in terms of

safety and health at work in the context of the fight against COVID-19.

  (Deliberation n°24/2020 of October 30, 2020)

• Second opinion on draft law n°6961 on 1. creation of the National Security Authority
and 2. amendment 1) of the amended law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code.

  (Deliberation n°25/2020 of November 18, 2020)

• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the procedures for registering establishments

food business operators.

  (Deliberation n°27/2020 of December 2, 2020)

• Opinion relating to bill no. 7639 amending the law of 23 December 2016 concerning the collection,
entry and control of aid files relating to housing and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
repealing the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 December 2016 laying down the measures for implementing the law
of 23 December 2016 concerning the collection, entry and control of aid files relating to the
accommodation.

  (Deliberation n°28/2020 of December 2, 2020)

• Opinion on the draft law on the recognition of professional qualifications in
the field of inland navigation and amending the amended law of 28 July 1973
establishing a navigation service.

  (Deliberation n°29/2020 of December 17, 2020)

86

191

193

196

200

203

209

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES • Opinion relating to bill no. 7738 amending: 1° the amended law of 17 July 2020 introducing
a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° the law of 19 December 2020 having
for the purpose of setting up a temporary State contribution to the uncovered costs of certain
businesses; 3° the amended law of 4 July 2008 on youth.

  (Deliberation n°30/2020 of December 22, 2020)

• Opinion relating to bill 7652 amending: 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955 concerning
traffic regulations on all public roads.

  (Deliberation n°32/2020 of December 30, 2020)

222

228

87

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7511 on the processing of health data
on insurance and reinsurance and amending the amended law of
December 7, 2015 on the insurance sector.

(Deliberation n°2/2020 of 01/27/2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated December 23, 2019, the Minister of Finance invited the National Commission
to decide on draft law no. 7511 relating to the processing of data concerning health in the field of
insurance and reinsurance services and amending the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector
insurance (hereinafter “Bill No. 7511”).

It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the purpose of this bill, by its sole article, is to introduce into
the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector a national provision to legitimize the
processing of health data in insurance matters based, in accordance with Article 9 paragraph (2)
letter g) of the GDPR, reasons of important public interest. Health data is indeed strictly regulated
by said Article 9 of the GDPR and can only be processed if one of the ten conditions listed therein is met.

In the commentary to the sole article of bill no. 7511, the authors of the bill argue that
sufficiency of law why the consent of persons wishing to take out insurance cannot be
a “reliable and solid enabling base for the processing of health data”. For this reason, this
legislative intervention is an essential requirement to remove the legal uncertainty in which companies
insurance companies are at the current stage when they process special categories of data within the meaning of
Article 9 paragraph (1) of the GDPR and more particularly health data.

Indeed, already in its second additional opinion of 8 June 20181 concerning bill no. 7184 which has become
the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the system

1 Deliberation n°423/2018 of June 8, 2018.

88

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES general data protection, the National Commission had considered that, even if it is a fact that the
insurance companies must be able to process health data for certain types of insurance contracts,
“the explicit consent provided for in Article 9 paragraph (2) letter a) of the GDPR of the data subjects does not
does not make it possible to legitimize this data processing, whereas it could not be considered as free within the meaning
of the GDPR for certain types of insurance (e.g. life insurance in the context of a mortgage loan, insurance
remaining due balance, …) ". Furthermore, since an insurance contract is a membership contract, the Commission
national authority had considered that consent was not to be considered appropriate to legitimize the processing
of health data in this context, but that an appropriate condition of legitimacy could have been the one provided
in Article 6 paragraph (1) letter b) of the GDPR (“the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the
data subject is a party or to the execution of pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request"). Gold,
it turns out that the European legislator did not provide for this purpose in Article 9 of the GDPR.

The National Commission had also suggested to the legislator to introduce a provision in Bill No. 7184
aforementioned allowing insurance companies to process health data, with the exception of genetic data,
when it is necessary for the performance of an insurance contract to which the data subject is a party or for the performance
pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request. However, this proposed text did not meet
the consent of the Council of State which considered that it is a “national derogation, added to the list of paragraph
2 [of Article 9 of the GDPR], which Member States are not allowed to introduce. The device cannot
no longer be deemed to introduce additional conditions within the meaning of Article 9(4).
new paragraph 2 of article 66 of the bill, in its amended version, is therefore not in conformity with article
9 of the regulations. The Council of State must formally oppose it and request its deletion”.2

The single article of bill n°7511 as proposed by the legislator is based on article 9 paragraph
(2) letter g) of the GDPR which provides that “the processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest, on
the basis of Union law or the law of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective pursued, respect
the essence of the right to data protection and provide for appropriate and specific measures for safeguarding
fundamental rights and interests of the data subject”.

According to the National Commission, this provision does not add derogations to those provided for in Article 9
paragraph (2) of the GDPR and does not rely on Article 9 paragraph (4) of the GDPR allowing Member States
to “maintain or introduce additional terms, including limitations, with respect to the
processing of genetic data, biometric data or data concerning health”. The treatment
of health data by insurance and reinsurance companies can thus be based on
Article 9 paragraph 2 letter g) of the GDPR, provided that the national law specifically provides "for
appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and interests of the person
concerned”, which is currently not the case. In other words, the purpose of the bill under notice is to
fill this gap in national law.

2 Second additional opinion of the Council of State of 17 July 2018 concerning bill no. 7184.

89

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The CNPD welcomes the text of the bill under examination, while point 2 of article 181bis of the amended law
of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector, introduced by the single article of bill no. 7511 under
review, sufficiently lists what are these appropriate and specific measures for the safeguarding of
fundamental rights and interests of the data subject which are to be observed in the event of data processing
of health necessary for the performance of pre-contractual measures in matters of insurance or reinsurance or
the performance of an insurance or reinsurance contract, following the example of other European legislation such as
example that of Ireland, the United Kingdom or the Netherlands.

However, the National Commission notes that the commentary to the single article, as well as the explanatory memorandum
mention next to Article 9 paragraph (2) letter g) of the GDPR as the legal basis for data processing
of health by the insurance companies Article 9 paragraph (4) of the GDPR. However, because of the above explanations, it
is of the opinion that the only legal basis applicable in cash is Article 9 paragraph (2) letter g) of the GDPR and it
thus proposes to delete any reference to Article 9 paragraph (4) of the GDPR.

Finally, the CNPD would like to point out that the bill under consideration has no impact on the application
of the rules of the GDPR, i.e. all the provisions provided for in the GDPR remain applicable to companies
insurance and reinsurance companies that process health data in accordance with the single article of the bill
No. 7511. In particular, the principles relating to the processing of personal data listed in Article
5 of the GDPR and all the general obligations incumbent on the controller and provided for in Chapter IV
of the GDPR must be observed. Furthermore, the persons concerned, i.e. the customers and prospects of the said
companies, have all the rights provided for in Articles 13 to 22 of the GDPR under the conditions listed therein and in
no case, the single article of bill n°7511 could be used as a legal basis to circumvent the
compliance with the aforementioned rights.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on January 27, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

90

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion on bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July
2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.

(Deliberation n°04/2020 of February 28, 2020)

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (EU) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter referred to as "the directive"), to which article 8 of the law of 1 August refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission
for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”), “advises the
Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data ".

By letter dated November 5, 2019, the Minister of Internal Security invited the National Commission to
to rule on bill n°7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police
Grand-Ducale (hereinafter referred to as "the bill").

The purpose of the bill is to give the police video surveillance system a legal framework following the repeal
of the legal basis governing the latter with the entry into force of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime. In effect,
this repeals article 17 of the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data, as amended in 2007 (hereinafter referred to as "the law of 2 August 2002"). The article in
question was the legal basis for the creation and operation of the video surveillance device for police purposes
called VISUPOL. Pursuant to Article 17, the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 August 2007 authorized the creation and
the operation of VISUPOL by the Grand Ducal Police within security zones (hereinafter referred to as “the regulations
of application”). The implementing regulation delegated the determination of the safety zones concerned to the minister having
in its attributions the Grand-Ducal Police, namely the Minister of Internal Security. Moreover, it is relevant
to mention that the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security applies to
processing of personal data by the Grand Ducal Police in the performance of its missions3. It's about
including missions to detect, investigate and prosecute criminal offences, or

3 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in criminal matters.

national security, Article 1 paragraph 2. a).

91

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT on the execution of criminal sanctions, including protection against threats to public security and prevention
of these 4.

The bill refers to the opinion of the CNPD of March 15, 2019 relating to the video surveillance of spaces and places
public for public safety purposes. The CNPD then self-seized the problem of the legal basis framing
CCTV devices. In that opinion, the National Commission then adopted a global approach
with regard to the use of video surveillance devices for police purposes, namely, prevention, research and
the finding of infringements6.

The CNPD wishes to recall that video surveillance systems interfere with the rights
fundamentals and freedoms granted to individuals. Therefore, providing a legal basis for such systems
is crucial in order to establish safeguards for people who are subject to surveillance and control as a result.
emanate. However, respect for fundamental rights is not absolute since interference with them
is recognized in Article 52 paragraph 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (hereinafter
referred to as “the Charter”). The European Convention on Human Rights (hereinafter referred to as “the ECHR”) makes
this limitation is also possible while linking it to respect for private and family life in Article 87.

I. General comments on the scope of the draft law

- A restrictive approach adopted by the government

The CNPD notes that the bill aims to amend Chapter V of the Law of 18 July 2018 on the Police, Chapter
dedicated to the processing of personal data by including an article 43 bis.

In its opinion of March 15, 2019 relating to the video surveillance of public spaces and places for the purposes of
public security, the CNPD has already emphasized that as a whole, the amended law of 18 July 2018 on
the Grand-Ducal Police did not provide for any provision relating to the video surveillance system. The CNPD welcomes
the government's choice to legally regulate the installation, management and operation of cameras in space
public by the Grand Ducal Police. Such an approach follows the examples of neighboring countries, namely France,
Belgium and Germany.

On the other hand, the CNPD regrets that the bill did not adopt a global approach relating to the installation of
video surveillance device with a public safety purpose8. Indeed, the Grand Ducal Police is not
the only one willing to manage, operate and use video surveillance for public safety purposes. The responsibles
of municipalities are also numerous to want to equip themselves with such devices in order to ensure the safety of the premises
public in their municipalities. In this respect, it is useful to recall that in its opinion of May 10, 2019 relating to the appeal

4 Ibid., paragraph 1.
5 Deliberation n°36/2019 of March 15, 2019.
6 In accordance with article 17 of the law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (repealed) and

Article 2 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.

7 European Convention on Human Rights, signed in Rome, 4.XI.1950, article 8.
8 Bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, comments on the articles p.6.

92

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES video surveillance by the municipalities, requested by the Minister of the Interior, the CNPD reported the
numerous requests for information from municipal officials regarding the installation of devices
video surveillance in public spaces and the desire of some elected officials to link their municipalities to VISUPOL. Of
moreover, the Minister of Internal Security recently underlined that the interest of the mayors in the installation
of surveillance devices in the municipalities persists9.

The CNPD has already noted in its aforementioned opinions that the municipal law of 13 December 198810 and the law
of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police11 both highlight the interactions between the Police
and the mayors without however distinguishing their respective competences within the framework of police power
administration.

In addition, it is necessary to remember that for the moment the VISUPOL police video surveillance system is limited
to the territory of the City of Luxembourg and that, according to information from the CNPD, an extension of the latter
to other municipalities is not envisaged. However, if a municipality wishes, as data controller,
install a similar device in public spaces (covering areas of more or less
large as e.g. public squares, municipal parks, municipal playgrounds or leisure areas…) for purposes
of public security, including in general the security of persons and property, a legal text should be
gives him that opportunity. To do this, the National Commission is of the opinion that the addition of such a provision
in the bill under consideration is essential. Indeed, the bill under consideration provides that only the
Director General of the Grand Ducal Police may take the initiative, with the authorization of the Minister, to extend
the VISUPOL video surveillance system to other municipal territories than that of the City of Luxembourg.
As more fully developed in its opinions of March 15, 2019 relating to the video surveillance of spaces and
public places for public security purposes (deliberation no. 36/2019) and of 10 May 2019 relating to the appeal of the
video surveillance by the municipalities (deliberation n°39/2019), the installation of video cameras by a municipality
in public spaces and places for the purposes of public security would hardly be reconcilable with the legislation
current data protection policy.

The CNPD therefore considers that it would be appropriate to adopt a global approach to video surveillance at
purposes of public security, a choice which appears to have been adopted by the Belgian and French legislators.

- A global approach adopted by the Belgian and French legislators

The question as to the only modification of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police lies
also in the fact that the authors of the bill were inspired by the Belgian model12.

If it turns out that the Belgian legislator has "retained to regulate video surveillance for police purposes in the dedicated law
to the Police”13, the CNPD observes that the latter nevertheless opted for a global approach to the management,

9 During the program “Face à face” on RTL on November 15, 2019, available at: https://www.rtl.lu/radio/face-a-face/a/1431367.html, consulted for the

last seen on 11/25/2019.

10 Articles 67 and 68.
11 Articles 35 et seq.
12 Bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, comments on articles p.4.
13 Ibid.

93

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT operation and use of video surveillance in the broad sense. Indeed, the law of March 21, 201814 modifies
both the law on the function of the police in order to regulate the use of cameras by the latter15 and the law of 21
March 2007 regulating the installation of surveillance cameras16. For all intents and purposes, the material scope
of the said law on the management and operation of video surveillance devices can be recalled. In chapter
2, article 6 paragraph 1 of the law of March 21, 2018 provides that: “This section governs the installation and
the use of cameras in a visible manner by the police services”. In paragraph 2 of the same article, it is
added that “the provisions of this section are applicable to the police services when they have access in
real time to images from surveillance cameras installed by other data controllers, in application
of the law of March 21, 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras or other laws, if this
access involves recording the images within the police services themselves. ". In chapter 3, the article
64 of the law of March 21, 2018 provides that “this law does not apply to cameras of
monitoring, the installation and use of which are regulated by or under specific legislation,
surveillance cameras in the workplace […], surveillance cameras installed and used by
public inspection and control services, expressly authorized by law, decree or ordinance, which regulates
their skills, to use cameras or to take film or video shots, as part of their
assignments”.

There is therefore no doubt that the Belgian legislator has chosen a global approach to video surveillance.
The scope of the law of March 21, 2018 concerns both the management and operation of
video surveillance by the police and by other data controllers such as municipalities.

The French legislator has also adopted a global approach since article L251-2 of the Security Code
Interior provides that “the transmission and recording of images taken on public roads by means of
video protection can be implemented by the competent public authorities”. By public authorities
competent, it is in particular the prefect as depositary of the authority of the State and considered as authority
administrative police17. They are also the police and gendarmerie forces as well as the mayors18.

Consequently, the National Commission is of the opinion that it would be appropriate to follow the example of
approaches adopted by Belgian and French legislators with regard to the legal framework for
CCTV systems installed in public spaces and places in Luxembourg for the purpose of
public security.

II. Comments on article 1 of the bill adding a new article 43bis to the amended law of July 18

2018 on the Grand Ducal Police

The CNPD recalls the case law of the European Court of Human Rights according to which the law “must define
the scope and methods of exercising the power with sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued

14 March 21, 2018. – Law amending the law on the police function, in order to regulate the use of cameras by the police services, and modifying the law of March 21, 2007
regulating the installation of surveillance cameras, the law of 30 November 1998 on the organization of intelligence and security services and the law of 2 October 2017
regulating private and particular security.

15 Ibid., Chapter 2.
16 Ibid., Chapter 3.
17 “What is the function of a prefect? “, thematic sheet that can be found on the page: https://www.vie-publique.fr/fiches/20169-role-du-prefet-departement, consulted

for the last time on 02/16/2020.

18 Video surveillance – video protection on public roads, thematic sheet found on the page: https://www.cnil.fr/fr/la-videosurveillance-videoprotection-

sur-la-voie-publique, last accessed on 02/16/2020.

94

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES – to provide the individual with adequate protection against arbitrariness”19. The Court of Justice of the European Union
for its part, emphasizes the importance “of providing clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of a
measure and imposing a minimum of requirements, so that the persons whose personal data
concerned have sufficient safeguards to effectively protect their data against
risks of misuse as well as against any illicit access and use of this data”.

In respect of the principles relating to the processing of personal data as provided for
by the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal nature in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the CNPD recalls that personal data
collected by monitoring devices must have specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and must not
must not be processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes.

It notes that Article 43 bis does not expressly mention the purposes of video surveillance devices
for police purposes. Indeed, the installation of the said devices is not explicitly attached to the missions of
prevention and detection of crimes and criminal offences. This is certainly due to the fact that the article
43 bis is incorporated into the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, thus making implicit the link between the
Police missions with the installation of surveillance cameras.

It may also be worth mentioning that the laws of neighboring countries explicitly link the use of
video surveillance device for law enforcement missions22. Consequently, the CNPD considers that it would be
appropriate for the Luxembourg legislator to do the same.

- Ad paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the new article 43bis

The CNPD wishes to recall that the installation of these video surveillance devices for police or
public security in public places must meet objective criteria23. For example, the regulation
application of August 1, 2007 previously cited provided that the establishment of security zones was intended to
purpose of the prevention, investigation and establishment of criminal offences24. The division of the zones of Luxembourg-
City placed under surveillance was therefore inextricably linked to the missions of the Grand Ducal Police. The risk
and the feeling of insecurity cannot be considered alone as objective criteria. There is reason to
define, delimit and document them in order to respect the principles of predictability and quality of the law such as
than provided for by European Union law.

On reading article 43 bis paragraph 1, the CNPD notes that the criterion of setting up the installation
of VISUPOL in the determined places is that of the “particular risk of committing crimes or misdemeanors or
threats to the safety of persons or property”. The CNPD welcomes the effort to define the said places and
risks they pose made in the bill. Indeed, these places are delimited on the basis of criteria such as

19 ECtHR, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°277998/95, February 16, 2000, para, 56.
20 Judgment of 6 October 2015, Schrems, C-362/14, EU:C:2015:650, paragraph 91. See also the judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others C-293/12

and C-594/12, EU:C:201:2014:238, point 54.

21 Article 3 paragraph 1 b) of the law of August 1, 208 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data with regard to

criminal law and national security.

22 French Internal Security Code, article L251-2; Law of 21 March 2018. Law amending the law on the police function, in order to regulate the use of cameras
by the police services, and amending the law of March 21, 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras, the law of November 30, 1998 establishing
intelligence and security services and the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security, article 8.

23 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes of 15 March

2019, p.3.

24 Grand-Ducal Regulation of 1 August 2007 authorizing the creation and operation by the Police of a video surveillance system for security zones, Art. 1st.

95

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD that the repeated commission of the same types of crimes or misdemeanors in given places25, the
configuration of places favoring the commission of crimes or misdemeanors26, the surroundings and surroundings of infrastructures
where events of national or international scope are regularly organized27 or where
can accommodate a large number of people.

The CNPD also welcomes the fact that the determination of a supervised area is conditioned by an authorization
ministerial comprising three elements. First of all, the combined reading of Article 43 bis paragraphs 3 and 4
makes it clear that the Director General of the Grand Ducal Police, as responsible for the processing
of VISUPOL, must carry out an impact analysis in accordance with article 26 of the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal matters and national security. This first step represents considerable progress
compared to the previous regulatory framework which did not provide for such a measure. Opinions are then collected
the mayor and the territorially competent State prosecutor on the basis of the impact analysis carried out. Finally, the
Director General of the Grand Ducal Police is required to communicate to the Minister "the justification of the need to
video surveillance", "the delimitation of the places to be monitored", "the number, type, location and scope of
vision of the cameras”, “an assessment of the number of people affected by the video surveillance” as well as
“the permanent nature or not of video surveillance”. These three elements are appreciated by the minister who
decides whether or not to issue the ministerial authorization to install the VISUPOL system in a given place.

The fact that the bill under consideration details the steps leading to ministerial authorization and that this
be published in the official journal complies with the principles of accessibility and transparency of the law
as well as its quality.

- Ad paragraph (5) of new article 43bis

Article 43 bis paragraph 5 provides that: “the video surveillance system takes images of persons
circulating in the field of vision of the cameras and records these images, as well as the day and time at which the
images were taken on a computer tool”29. In the same paragraph, it is added that the Grand Ducal Police
can have “use of focusing techniques and automatic detection of situations likely to
correspond to the purpose pursued”.

The CNPD considers that mentioning the techniques used allows individuals subject to this type of surveillance
to have a more precise idea of the knowledge that is extracted regarding their displacement as well as the techniques used
for these purposes.

She also welcomes the commentary to the articles relating to paragraph (5) which states that "The recording of sounds
is excluded…” as well as “The use of any other automatic detection technique such as the recognition

25 Article 43bis paragraph (12 paragraph 1° of the bill amending the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police.
26 Ibidem, paragraph 2°.
27 Ibidem, paragraph 3°.
28 Ibidem, paragraph 4°.
29 Ibid., paragraph (5).

96

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES is excluded”. Indeed, the use of facial recognition techniques in the law enforcement field,
currently under discussion at European level, is still very questionable from a protection point of view
data and privacy. The CNPD is therefore wondering whether it should not be expressly excluded in
the text of the law both the capture of sounds and the use of automatic recognition detection techniques
facial.

- Ad paragraph (6) of new article 43bis

In terms of proportionality of data processing and appropriate safeguards to safeguard the rights
and fundamental freedoms of citizens, the National Commission also congratulates the authors of the bill
for having specified that the cameras cannot film the interior of private access places, nor their entrances. THE
text also provides for the obligation to use irreversible masking techniques when the configuration
of places does not make it possible to exclude from the field of vision of the cameras entrances to private access places. If the
Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 August 2007 does not contain a similar provision, it is also true that the Police
Grand Duchy already uses irreversible masking techniques in practice within the framework of the system
Current VISUPOL.

However, reading paragraph (6) of the new article 43bis, only “images from inside places of private access,
neither specifically, those of their entries » cannot be viewed. Furthermore, the use of methods
masking is limited to “entrances to places of private access”. Conversely, the interior of a private place can be
filmed and the use of masking processes is not mandatory when the private place does not aim to access or
an entrance. The CNPD therefore considers it necessary to specify the provision under examination, in order to guarantee that neither
the interior, nor the access or the entrance of a private place can be filmed and that according to the configuration of the places,
any interior, access or entrance to a private place is technically masked in an irreversible manner.

- Ad paragraph (7) of new article 43bis

Paragraph (7) of the new draft article 43bis specifies that "the public is informed in a clear and
of the existence of the surveillance system”.

Insofar as paragraph (8) of the new article 43bis refers to the law of 1 August 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters
as well as in matters of national security, it should be noted that Article 11 paragraph (1) of this law obliges
already any data controller to take “reasonable measures to provide any information,
referred to in Article 12, ….., to the data subject in a concise, comprehensible and easily accessible manner,
in clear and simple terms. The information is provided by any appropriate means, including by
electronic”.

97

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The National Commission therefore does not see any added value in the text of paragraph (7) in question
as she does not understand the use and meaning of the term “permanent” in the context of this
arrangement.

With regard to the practical implementation by the Grand Ducal Police to inform citizens in the
framework of the VISUPOL system, the CNPD strongly recommends following the guidelines drawn up by the Committee
European Data Protection, namely: “Guidelines 3/2019 on processing of personal data through
video devices, version 2.0, adopted on 29 January 2020”.

- Ad paragraph (8) of new article 43bis

Paragraph (8) provides, among other things, that “a Grand-Ducal regulation determines the technical and
organizational measures to be implemented by the data controller to ensure the security of the processing in
application of article 28 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security and rule
the procedures for exercising the right of access provided for in Article 13 of the same law”.

The CNPD regrets that a draft Grand-Ducal regulation was not attached to the bill under consideration.
However, it already emphasizes that when drawing up the Grand-Ducal regulation, attention
Particular attention should be paid to the logging and tracing of access by members of the police. AT
As such, the CNPD recalls that it regularly recommends keeping the logs for a period of 5 years
while this period also corresponds to the limitation period in tort (e.g. breach of secrecy
professional). Note that the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 August 2007 only provided for a retention period
3 years old.

- Ad paragraph (9) of new article 43bis

This provision regulates the retention period of images from surveillance cameras. The text under
examination does not change from the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 August 2007, while it retains
a period of two months. The CNPD considers this period to be proportionate with regard to the purposes pursued by the
data processing.

- Ad paragraph (10) of new article 43bis

The National Commission welcomes this provision, insofar as the viewing of images
in real time is limited to only members of the Police designated for this purpose by the Director General of the Police.

98

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES Conclusion

The CNPD welcomes the effort to regulate the implementation and operation of video surveillance systems by
the Grand-Ducal Police and the amendment of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police in y
adding an article 43bis for this purpose. This effort is part of the imperative to respect the law as well as the case law
European.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on February 28, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

99

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7467 transposing certain provisions of the
Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending
Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system
for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as
directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU; and amending: a) the amended law of
12 November 2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and the financing of
terrorism; b) the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of notaries;
c) the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of bailiffs
justice ; d) the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; e) the amended law of
June 10, 1999 on the organization of the profession of chartered accountant; f) the amended law
of July 23, 2016 on the audit profession.

(Deliberation n°5/2020 of February 28, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated August 8, 2019, the Director of the Treasury, for the Minister of Finance, invited
the National Commission to rule on draft law no. 7467 transposing certain
provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending the
Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering
capital or terrorist financing as well as Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU; and carrying
amendment of: a) the amended law of 12 November 2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism; b) the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of notaries; c) the law
amended of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers; d) the amended law of 10
August 1991 on the legal profession; e) the amended law of 10 June 1999 on the organization of the profession
accountant; f) the amended law of 23 July 2016 on the audit profession (hereinafter “the draft
law ").

100

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the bill is to bring to the amended law of November 12, 2004
relating to the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism (hereinafter “the 2004 law”) the
adaptations necessary to ensure the transposition of certain provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/843 of
European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as
Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU (hereinafter “Directive 2018/843”) and to ensure the implementation of
recommendations of the FATF, in particular in the case where these recommendations are not the subject of provisions
equivalents in Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes
money laundering or terrorist financing as well as Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/
EU (hereinafter “Directive 2015/849”). The bill further seeks to supplement the powers of the authorities of
controls and self-regulatory bodies and to strengthen the cooperation of control authorities with their
foreign counterparts.

Article 5 of Directive 2015/849 allows Member States to “stop or maintain in force, in the field
governed by this Directive, stricter provisions to prevent money laundering and the financing
terrorism, within the limits of Union law”. The Court of Justice in a case concerning Article
corresponding to Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 relating
preventing the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and the financing of
terrorism, as amended, recalled that the national legislation adopted must, among other things, be proportional,
which requires an assessment “…of the degree of interference of the customer due diligence measures that it
provides with other rights and interests protected by Union law, such as the protection of personal data
provided for in Article 8 of the Charter …”30.

The CNPD recalls that the protection of personal data is a distinct and independent fundamental right
in the EU legal order, guaranteed by Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The Court of Justice has thus emphasized that an act “constitutes an interference with the fundamental right to
protection of personal data guaranteed by article 8 of the charter since it provides for the processing
personal data”. This right is not absolute and may be limited in accordance with Article 52,
paragraph 1 of the Charter, which requires that the limitation be provided for by law, respects the essential content of the right
to data protection and, in compliance with the principle of proportionality, that it is necessary and that it
effectively meets objectives of general interest recognized by the Union or the need to protect the rights and
freedoms of others.

The Court of Justice recalled in cases C-293/12 and C-594/12 Digital Rights that the fight against terrorism
international law and serious crimes constitutes a purpose of general interest32. In this regard, the CNPD subscribes to the
remarks of the European Data Protection Supervisor on the proposal for Directive 2015/849,

30 Judgment of 10 March 2016, Safe Interenvios, C-235/14, ECLI:EU:C:2016:154, point 109 and also points 94 to 110, concerning Article 5 of the 2005 Directive.
31 Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland, joined cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, ECLI:EU:C:2014:238, paragraph 36; see also Judgment of November 9, 2010,
Volker und Markus Schecke, Cases C-92/09 and C-93/09, ECLI:EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 58. See also European Data Protection Supervisor, Guide for
the assessment of the need for measures limiting the fundamental right to the protection of personal data (11 April 2017).

32 Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland, joined cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, ECLI:EU:C:2014:238, paragraphs 41-42.

101

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD which considered more precisely “that European data protection standards have not
international equivalent of the FATF, and that the search for coherence between policies to combat
international money laundering should not ignore European Union requirements
in terms of data protection. The EDPS recalls that an individual's right to data protection
of a personal nature is guaranteed by Article 16 of the TFEU and Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of
the European Union.
 
Ensure transparency of sources of payments, deposits and transfers of funds in order to combat terrorism
and money laundering is a legitimate interest, but this objective must be pursued in compliance with the
data protection requirements.”33.

In addition, the European legislator has underlined the importance of respecting fundamental rights when implementing
implementation of the FATF recommendations in recital 43 of Directive 2015/849, which states that “it is
essential that the alignment of this directive with the revised FATF Recommendations takes place in the
full respect of Union law, in particular as regards Union law on the protection of
data and the protection of fundamental rights enshrined in the Charter".

Thus, insofar as the authors of the bill go beyond what is provided for in Directive 2015/849,
they must ensure compliance of the provisions with the data protection regulations at
personal character. The CNPD does not know if such an assessment has been made. She finds, however, that many
proposed changes have an impact on the right to data protection and privacy
natural persons, insofar as the number of processing operations carried out and the data processed both
by professionals and by competent authorities and self-regulatory bodies will increase. So
In general, the authors of the bill should analyze the necessity and the proportionality of the proposed measures,
all the more so if the measures to be implemented in national law have not been the subject of such an assessment during the
their development.

The National Commission has already had the opportunity to rule on the transposition of the directives on
fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in its opinions n°51/2018 of January 21, 2018,
n°485/2018 of November 22, 2018 and n°9/2019 of January 17, 2019. She wishes to take advantage of the opportunity
to reiterate the remarks made in these notices, in particular with regard to the particular categories of
data, data relating to criminal convictions, offenses or security measures and
data transfers to third countries by professionals.

In this opinion, the National Commission refers to the articles of the coordinated version of the directive
2015/849.

33 European Data Protection Supervisor, opinion of 4 July 2013 on a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, and a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and
of the Council on information accompanying transfers of funds, paragraphs 10-11.

102

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES I. Regarding the retention of personal data

The draft law under opinion aims in its article 5, point 7, letter c) to modify article 3, paragraph 6, letter a) of
the 2004 law relating to the retention period of data processed by professionals by replacing the words
"may retain" with "retain".

This storage period applies according to the new paragraph 2 of paragraph 6 of article 3 of the law of 2004
also to data accessible through the centralized mechanisms referred to in Article 32bis of the
Directive (EU) 2015/849.

According to the commentary to the articles, this amendment is intended “to support the mandatory nature of the
conservation for an additional period of five years when this conservation is necessary for the
effective implementation of internal measures for the prevention or detection of acts of money laundering or financing
terrorism as provided for in Article 40, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2, of Directive (EU) 2015/849.”34.

As already raised in CNPD opinion no. 51/2018 of 21 January 2018, article 40, paragraph 1, subparagraph
2 of Directive 2015/849 sets the retention period for data collected at 5 years after the end of the relationship
business or occasional transaction. Member States may allow or require that the data
be retained for a period not exceeding five additional years, "after careful
assessed the necessity and proportionality of this prolonged storage and whether it was deemed necessary for the purposes
to prevent or detect acts of money laundering or terrorist financing or to investigate
in the matter”.

The authors of the bill did not carry out a careful analysis of the necessity and proportionality
the extension of the retention period, the CNPD is not in a position to assess the need and the
proportionality of the provision in question. It also refers to its remarks made in its opinion
n°51/2018 of January 21, 2018.

II. Regarding the rights of data subjects

The CNPD takes note of the alignment of paragraphs 3 and 4 of article 3, paragraph 6bis of the 2004 law, as
as modified by the bill, on the GDPR. She notes that the authors of the bill have clarified the scope
application of the limitation of the data subject's right of access.

Thus, in accordance with the amended article, the right of access provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR may be limited "in application
of Article 5, paragraph (5), subparagraph 1”, namely when “information is, will be or has been communicated
or provided to the authorities pursuant to paragraphs (1), (1bis), (2) and (3) [of Article 5] or that an investigation

34 Bill n°7467, Commentary on the articles, page 51.

103

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD of the financial intelligence unit on money laundering or terrorist financing is in progress or could
be opened” (article 5, paragraph 5, first paragraph).

The provision under review constitutes a limitation of the rights of data subjects within the meaning of Article 23
of the GDPR, according to which the scope of the right of access may be limited by the law of the Union or of a Member State,
when this limitation respects the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and constitutes a necessary measure
and proportionate in a democratic society to guarantee one of the objectives provided for exhaustively in Article 23,
paragraph 1 of the GDPR. Legislative measures should include specific provisions relating, at least,
the elements referred to in paragraph 2 of the article in question, including provisions relating to the wording
of the purposes or categories of purposes, the categories of personal data concerned and the scope
limitations.

For the sake of legal certainty and in order to delimit with sufficient precision the cases in which the
data subjects’ right of access could be limited, the draft law should be clarified in order to satisfy the
requirements of Article 23 of the GDPR, indicating, among other things, the precise conditions applying to the limitation
of the rights of the data subject. The CNPD refers in this respect to its opinions and to the opinions of the Council of State relating to the
bills n°7250 and n°7373. In the present case, the National Commission wonders, in particular, about the
possibility of limiting the right of access, in the event that an investigation is not opened but “could be”
by the FRC. Indeed, the provision does not specify when and how a controller-professional
may consider that an investigation could be opened by the FIU.

Following the example of its opinion n°51/2018 of January 21, 2018, the CNPD still insists on the need to provide for a right
indirect access if the data subject's right of access has been limited.

III. Regarding the cooperation between the FIU, supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies

To. The principle of purpose limitation

i. General considerations

In accordance with Article 8(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, personal data
must be processed fairly and for specific purposes. Thus, in accordance with the purpose limitation principle,
the personal data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and
must not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes. This principle applies
data processing carried out by the authorities, including in the context of national cooperation and
international.

The CNPD fully subscribes to the opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor on the proposal for
the European Commission amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 and Directive 2009/101/EC that the principle

104

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES limitation of purposes is particularly important “with regard to the interference of public order in
the protection of personal data, because the proportionality of their processing will have to be assessed in
according to the political objective defined by the legislator.

In this regard, we consider that legislative instruments allowing multiple and/or simultaneous processing of
personal data by different data controllers and for incompatible purposes,
without specifying the purpose for which each data processing is carried out, risks causing great confusion
with regard to the application of the principle of proportionality.

In cases where the purposes of data processing are defined by general terms or
vague, or for which the various data controllers have a completely
different with the purpose pursued both in terms of the structure or resources and the capacity of each
responsible to comply with the rules in certain given circumstances, the principle of purpose limitation is
formally and substantially compromised and, therefore, the principle of proportionality will not be
no longer duly applied”35.

It is therefore necessary to indicate precisely the purposes of the processing undertaken by the authorities.

To satisfy the requirement of specificity, the purpose must be clearly and fully identified in order to determine
what processing is or is not included in the specified purpose and to allow the assessment of compliance with the law and
the application of data protection safeguards. The purposes still need to be made explicit, i.e.
i.e. clear, explained or expressed in some form to ensure that all persons
concerned have the same unequivocal understanding of the purposes of the processing, regardless of any diversity
cultural or linguistic.

Furthermore, the basis of the processing should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for the
litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court
human rights.37

ii. Obligation to cooperate with the FIU, supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies

(articles 5 and 9-1 of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill)

According to the new article 5, paragraph 1 of the 2004 law, professionals, their managers and employees
must cooperate with "the Luxembourg authorities responsible for the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism and self-regulatory bodies, in particular in the exercise of their
respective supervisory powers conferred by Articles 8-2 and 8-2bis”.

35 European Data Protection Supervisor, Opinion of 2 February 2017 on the Commission proposal amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 and Directive

2009/101/EC, paragraphs 20-23.

36 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 38.
37 Recital 41 GDPR (“such legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for litigants,
in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights
Humans”) and recital 33 of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations
and prosecution in this regard or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA
(“such Member State law, legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for litigants,
in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. ")

105

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The CNPD wonders about the scope of this provision. Indeed, given the reference to the powers of the authorities
officials and self-regulatory bodies conferred by Articles 8-2 and 8-2bis, should it be understood that
Article 5, paragraph 1 of the 2004 law concerns only the supervisory authorities and bodies
of self-regulation?

For the sake of legal certainty, the National Commission considers it necessary to further specify
this provision, in particular by specifying the entities covered by the concept of “Luxembourg authorities
responsible for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism”. Furthermore and in
taking into account the above concerning the limitation of purposes, the CNPD considers it necessary to delete
the words "in particular" and to specify the framework in which professionals must cooperate with the authorities
in question.

In addition, it is worth recalling in this respect Article 5, paragraph 2 of the 2004 law, which specifies that “the
information and documents provided to the authorities, other than the judicial authorities, pursuant to paragraphs
(1) and (1bis) may only be used for the purposes of combating money laundering or the financing of
of terrorism. » In accordance with the modification of article 5, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 should be modified
to include self-regulatory bodies.

With regard to article 9-1 of the law of 2004, as it results from the bill, it provides that the FIU, the
supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies cooperate closely with each other. As for the form and the
purposes of the cooperation, paragraph 2 specifies that “the supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit
are authorized to exchange the information necessary for the accomplishment of their respective missions in
in the context of the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The supervisory authorities and the
financial intelligence unit use the information exchanged only for the accomplishment of these
assignments. »

No information is provided either on the form or on the purposes of the cooperation between the FIU, the authorities.
regulators and self-regulatory bodies. Specifically, the bill does not indicate whether organizations
self-regulatory bodies may exchange personal data with the FIU and supervisory authorities. In
taking into account paragraph 2 of article 9-1 cited above, it therefore seems that there will be no exchange of data
between the self-regulatory bodies, on the one hand, and the FIU and the supervisory authorities, on the other hand.

If, despite this, the self-regulatory organizations could be required to exchange data with the
CRF and the supervisory authorities, the Council of State has repeatedly emphasized that the communication of data
to third parties may constitute an interference with privacy38 and thus constitutes under Article 11, paragraph
3, of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. It is therefore necessary that the essential points be fixed
by the law.

38 Opinion of the Council of State of 21 November 2017 relating to bill no. 7182, doc. speak. 7182/02, page 7. Opinion of the Council of State of June 7, 2016 relating to the draft

law n°6975, page 4.

106

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES Thus, taking into account the above and if the FIU, the supervisory authorities and the self-regulatory bodies
would have to exchange personal data, the draft law should regulate the cooperation of
all controllers in question, specifying the form and purpose of this cooperation for all
controllers, including self-regulatory bodies.

iii. National cooperation between the CSSF and the CAA acting for the purposes of the fight against money laundering and
against the financing of terrorism and for the purposes of the prudential supervision of
credit and financial institutions or the supervision of financial markets (article 9-1bis of
2004 Act, as amended by the Bill)

Article 1, paragraph 37 of Directive 2018/843 introduces specific provisions concerning the exchange
information between competent authorities by inserting a new article 57a in Directive 2015/849.
In accordance with this article, the competent authorities responsible for the supervision of credit institutions
and financial institutions within a Member State and in different Member States in accordance with the
Directive or other legislative acts relating to the supervision of credit institutions and institutions
financial institutions can exchange data.

Paragraph 3 of Article 57a of Directive 2015/849 lists the purposes for which personal data
exchanged can be used. These include, among other things, “…the fulfillment of the duties incumbent on them
pursuant to this Directive or other legislative acts in the field of combating money laundering
capital and the financing of terrorism, prudential regulation and supervision of institutions
credit institutions and financial institutions, including the imposition of sanctions” and “in the context of procedures
judicial proceedings initiated under special provisions provided for by Union law in the field of
this Directive or in that of the prudential regulation and supervision of credit institutions
and financial institutions. ".

According to the commentary to the articles of the bill, article 57bis of directive 2015/849 would be transposed by
Article 9-1bis of the 2004 law, as amended by the draft law, according to which the CSSF and the CAA may
exchange data “(…) for the purposes of the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism as well as
for the purposes of other legislative acts relating to the regulation and prudential supervision of institutions
of credit and financial institutions or relating to the supervision of the financial markets”. Like the
Directive, paragraph 3 sets out the purposes for which data may be exchanged, with reference
also to “…other legislative acts in the field of…regulation and prudential supervision
credit institutions and financial institutions as well as financial market supervision. ".

The commentary to the articles specifies that "[t]his new article takes into account the fact that information of a
prudential information relating to credit institutions and financial institutions, such as data relating

39 Article 9-1bis, paragraph 1 of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill.

107

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT to the good repute of directors and shareholders, internal control mechanisms, governance or
compliance and risk management, are often essential for the proper supervision of these institutions
in terms of the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Likewise, the information
on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism are also important for the supervision
prudential of these institutions. It is with this in mind that Directive 2018/843 aims to provide a legal framework
by expanding the exchange of confidential information and cooperation between competent authorities in matters of
the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism as well as in terms of the prudential supervision of
credit institutions and financial institutions. In all cases, the information exchanged must
present a relevant element in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. »40

In view of the foregoing and taking into account the principle of purpose limitation, the National Commission
considers that the purpose as currently drafted, namely “(…) for the purposes of other legislative acts relating to
the regulation and prudential supervision of credit institutions and financial institutions
or relating to the supervision of the financial markets" is formulated too vaguely. She therefore considers
necessary to specify the legislative acts on the basis of which the CSSF and the CAA could exchange data
personal character. Furthermore, in order to ensure the principle of purpose limitation and to avoid any ambiguity,
the clarification in the commentary of the articles that the information exchanged must be necessary in terms of
fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism should appear in the body of the text itself.

iv. International cooperation of supervisory authorities with their foreign counterpart authorities
(article 9-2bis of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill) and international cooperation
of the CSSF and the CAA with their foreign counterpart authorities (article 9-2quater of the law of 2004,
as amended by the bill)

Articles 9-2bis and 9-2ter of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill, aim to establish a framework
legal framework for the cooperation of the supervisory authorities with their foreign counterpart authorities (article 9-2bis),
respectively for the cooperation of the CSSF and the CAA with their foreign counterpart authorities acting in the
purposes of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing and for the purposes of prudential supervision
credit institutions and financial institutions or financial market supervision (Article
9-2quater).

The CNPD notes that the bill under opinion does not distinguish between European cooperation and cooperation
international cooperation with the authorities of third countries, as is the case in Directive 2015/849. In fact, the guideline
provides a framework for cooperation between the authorities of the Member States, for example by determining the cases in which the
national authorities may reject a request for assistance. The conditions surrounding European cooperation
are not imposed by Directive 2015/849 for cooperation with authorities with third countries, but
are introduced by the bill under opinion in order to regulate cooperation with the authorities of third countries. So,

40 AProjet de loi n°7467, Commentaries on the articles, pages 65-66.

108

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES national authorities could in future only reject requests from the authorities of third countries in accordance
the criteria provided for in Article 9-2ter. The National Commission notes that a request for cooperation could
be refused, if "the requesting counterpart authority is not able to effectively protect this information"
(Articles 9-2ter, letter b) and 9-2quater, paragraph 4 of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill). In order to
ensure data protection during cooperation, the information protection assessment should
also include an assessment of the level of protection of personal data.

With regard to the purposes of the exchanges, the CNPD refers to its observations made in point III.a.i. and iii. this-
above concerning the precision of the purposes. In addition, paragraph 6 of article 9-2bis and paragraph 6 of
article 9-2quater of the law of 2004, as amended by the bill, restricts the use of data received
by national authorities by foreign authorities. Insofar as the list of purposes constitutes a list
limiting, the words “in particular” should be deleted from the provision.

In addition, the National Commission wonders about the scope of this cooperation, among other things with regard to
the data that can be transmitted. For example, the authorities must transmit "any information required"
(articles 9-2bis, paragraph 2, first paragraph and 9-2quater, paragraph 2, first paragraph of the law of 2004, as amended
by the bill). Paragraph 9 of the new article 9-2quater of the 2004 law provides a list of "types
of information” that may be exchanged by the CSSF and the CAA in the context of international cooperation with their
foreign counterpart authorities, in particular counterpart authorities sharing a common responsibility vis-à-vis
vis-à-vis credit institutions or financial institutions operating within the same group.

In addition, the authorities must take “without delay the necessary measures to collect the information
solicited by making use of the powers available to it by virtue of the powers conferred on it by law.
(articles 9-2bis, paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 and 9-2quater, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 of the law of 2004, as amended
by the bill). It is not clear under which law the authorities could collect the requested information.

Also taking into account that the purposes for which the data could be exchanged
are not indicated with sufficient precision (see above), the National Commission considers that the
wording used in article 9-2bis and 9-2quater is too vague and considers it necessary to provide more
the cooperation of the authorities, in particular by setting more precisely the data that could be exchanged,
the sources of the data as well as the guarantees surrounding these exchanges. We should also replace the word
"required" by the word "necessary".

b. Confidentiality of data exchanged by supervisory authorities

As for confidentiality, the CNPD notes that articles 9-2bis, paragraph 7 and 9-2quater, paragraph 8 of the law
of 2004, as amended by the bill, provide that the authorities “ensure a degree of confidentiality

109

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD appropriate to any request for cooperation and to the information exchanged, so as to protect the integrity of the
investigations or searches for information, in compliance with the obligations of both parties in terms of compliance
privacy and data protection. ". The CNPD recalls that the authorities must, in any event,
act in accordance with data protection and privacy legislation and that the assurance of a
"appropriate degree of confidentiality" can in no way lead to a reduction in the level of protection offered
by data protection legislation.

vs. Data transfers to third countries

The CNPD recalls that any transfer of personal data by the FIU, the supervisory authorities and the
self-regulatory organizations to third countries, i.e. outside the European Economic Area, must be
in accordance with chapter 3 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security,
respectively in Chapter V of the GDPR.

As for the GDPR, it follows from Article 44 of the GDPR that all the provisions of Chapter V must be applied.
in such a way that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by the GDPR is not compromised.
Thus, in the absence of an adequacy decision within the meaning of Article 45 of the GDPR or of guarantees appropriate to the
meaning of Article 46 of the GDPR, a transfer or a set of transfers of personal data to a
third country or an international organization can only take place in the cases exhaustively listed by
GDPR Article 49. Regarding the use of Article 49 of the GDPR, the CNPD refers to the guidelines
2/2018 of the European Data Protection Board 2/2018 relating to the derogations provided for in Article 49
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Like these guidelines, the CNPD would like to point out that these exemptions
“must be interpreted in such a way as not to contradict the very nature of derogations, which are exceptions
to the rule that personal data cannot be transferred to a third country unless
that country offers an adequate level of data protection or that appropriate safeguards are put in place
spot »41.

IV. As to the powers of supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies

The National Commission has already had the opportunity to advise the powers of the supervisory authorities in its opinion
n°51/2018 of January 21, 2018.

It notes that section 8-2bis of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill, aims to grant new
powers to the competent bodies of self-regulatory organizations, for example the right to have access to any
document in any form whatsoever and to receive or make a copy thereof and the right to demand communication
telephone records, electronic communications or data records relating to

41 Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations provided for in Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Data Protection Board, p. 5.

110

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES held by persons subject to their respective supervisory powers42. According to the comment
of the articles, the articles seek to align the supervisory powers of the self-regulatory organizations with those of the
supervisory authorities43.

According to Article 48, paragraphs 2 and 9 of Directive 2015/849, when self-regulatory organizations are
vested with the supervisory mission provided for in paragraph 1 of that Article, the Member States must ensure that
that they have “appropriate powers, including the power to require the production of any relevant information
to monitor compliance with obligations and the power to carry out verifications…”. Article 61 of the Directive
provides that competent authorities and self-regulatory bodies must put in place mechanisms
of “whistleblowing”. However, according to Article 60 of Directive 2015/849, only the competent authorities must
publish decisions that have not been the subject of any appeal and instituting a sanction or an administrative measure
due to an infringement.

The CNPD therefore questions the proportionality and the need for the introduction of such powers and missions to
self-regulatory bodies. Since Article 48(3) of Directive 2015/849 provides
that “Competent authorities have enhanced supervisory powers with regard to
credit institutions, financial institutions and gambling service providers and
by chance. », it seems that it is not envisaged that all the competent authorities and organizations
of self-regulation have identical powers. The CNPD therefore recommends that the authors of the draft
law to analyze whether it is necessary and proportional to grant self-regulatory bodies powers
identical to those conferred on the supervisory authorities.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on February 28, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

42 New article 8-2bis of the 2004 law, as amended by the bill.
43 Bill n°7467, Commentary on the articles, pages 59-61.

111

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7216B 1) transposing: a) Article 31 of the
Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 relating
preventing the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering
or financing of terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the Parliament
European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and
Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC; and (b) Article 1(16) of the
Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending
Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for
purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as the guidelines
2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU; 2) amending the amended law of 27 July
2003 relating to trust and fiduciary contracts; and 3) repealing the law of 10
August 2018 relating to the information to be obtained and kept by the trustees and concerning
transposition of Article 31 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for
purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/
of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC.

(Deliberation n° 6/2020 of February 28, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated October 11, 2019, the Minister of Finance invited the National Commission to
to decide on the government amendments to bill n°7216B establishing a register of trusts
and transposing Article 31 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering

112

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES or financing of terrorism, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council
and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2006/70/EC of the
Commission (hereinafter "the bill").

Part of Article 31 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or financing
terrorism (hereinafter "Directive 2015/849"), as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the Parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use
of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as the directives
2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU (hereinafter “Directive 2018/843”) was transposed by the law of August 10, 2018
relating to the information to be obtained and kept by trustees (hereinafter “the law of 10 August 2018”). Of the
therefore, in order not to have two separate laws at national level transposing the same article of the directive
2015/849, the authors propose to repeal the law of August 10, 2018 and to insert the provisions previously contained
in the law of August 10, 2018 in this bill while ensuring that the changes made by the directive
2018/843 to these provisions are reflected in this draft law n°7216B. The authors also aim
to take into account the principles established by recommendation 25 of the Financial Action Task Force (hereafter “FATF”).

The bill therefore has two parts. First, the bill provides for the obligation for trustees and
trustees to obtain and retain data relating to beneficial owners and other persons
specified in the bill. Second, the bill seeks to establish a register of trusts and trusts
(hereinafter referred to as “the register”) kept by the Registration, Domains and VAT Authority (hereinafter
referred to as “the AED”) in which the fiduciaries and trustees will have to register certain data that they are
obliged to collect under the draft law.

The CNPD has already had the opportunity to rule on the transposition of directives in the fight against
money laundering and against the financing of terrorism in its opinions n°51/2018 of January 21, 2018, n°485/2018 of
November 22, 2018 and n°9/2019 of January 17, 2019.

This opinion of the National Commission will take into account the government amendments based on
the numbering of the coordinated text. It also refers to the articles of the coordinated version of the directive
2015/849.

As a preliminary point, the CNPD notes that the draft law uses the concept of "person concerned" in the context of
information relating to natural persons and legal persons to be entered in the register. In order to
to avoid any confusion with the notion of “data subject” relative to a “natural person”
subject to data protection regulations, the CNPD recommends that the authors of the project
of law to use different terminology with respect to “legal persons”.

113

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT I. Regarding data processed by trustees and fiduciaries (articles 2 and 3)

The collection of data by trustees and fiduciaries is mainly governed by Articles 2 and 3 of the draft
law. However, these articles do not clearly define the data to be collected by fiduciaries and trustees.

Article 31, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 of Directive 2015/849 concerning the data to be collected by
fiduciaries and trustees provides that each Member State requires that the “fiduciaries/trustees of any trust
trust/of any express trust administered in that Member State obtain and retain information
adequate, accurate and current on the beneficial owners of the fiduciary/trust. These informations
include the identity of (a) the settlor(s), (b) the trustee(s), (c) the
protectors (if any), (d) beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, and (e) any other
natural person exercising effective control over the fiduciary/trust. ". This information includes, at least, the
name, month and year of birth, country of residence and nationality of the beneficial owner, as well as the
nature and extent of the effective interests held (article 31, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2 of directive 2015/849).
 
By transposing this article, article 2, paragraph 1 of the bill requires trustees and fiduciaries to obtain
and to maintain "information" on the beneficial owners of any express trust administered in Luxembourg or
of any trust for which they act as trustee or fiduciary. This information “includes”
the identity of the settlor(s), trustee(s), protector(s) (if any),
beneficiaries or category of beneficiaries as well as any other natural person exercising effective control
on the trust or fiduciary. While the Bill and the Commentary to the Articles does not refer to it, the Commentary
of the articles of the bill n°7216 specified that "the information to be obtained and kept includes the information
to be registered in the Register of Trusts in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 2, of the draft law”44.

In addition, trustees and fiduciaries must transmit to professionals "data relating to the assets of the
trust and the assets of trusts held or managed within the framework of the business relationship” (Article 6, paragraph 2 of the
law Project). The commentary to the articles does not explain which types of data are covered by this obligation.

Furthermore, according to Article 8, paragraphs 5 and 6 of the draft law, fiduciaries and trustees, respectively
professionals, provide, upon request, "any information they hold about any fiduciary or any trust"
to the persons referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, point 1, letters a) to c) and point 2 of the bill, namely the
state attorney general, state prosecutors and members of their public prosecutor's offices, investigating judges, the
Financial Intelligence Unit (hereinafter “the FIU”) and supervisory authorities.

In addition to the data indicated above, it seems that trustees and fiduciaries must also collect and,
if necessary, send to the AED supporting documents (whatever they are) to which the bill makes
reference in its article 18.

44 Bill no. 7216, doc. parl no. 7216/00, p. 11.

114

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Article 3, paragraph 1, provides that “the trustees of express trusts administered in Luxembourg and the
trustees obtain and maintain basic information about other regulated agents and service providers
trust or fiduciary services, including investment advisers or investment managers,
accountants and tax advisers. ". The persons concerned are obliged to provide the trustees and fiduciaries
all the information necessary for them to meet their obligations under this
paragraph 1 (paragraph 2).

The CNPD first notes that article 3 of the bill, unlike article 2, does not appear in article
31 of Directive 2015/849, but is taken exclusively from FATF Recommendation 25. The authors of
amendments that do not provide explanations as to a possible analysis of the need and
the proportionality that would have been carried out regarding such an obligation, so that the CNPD is not in
able to analyze the compliance of such a provision with the regulations on the protection of
data. However, it wishes to point out that the wording that trustees and fiduciaries must
collect information relating to “other regulated agents and service providers of the trust or
the trust, including investment advisers or investment managers, accountants
and tax advisers” is not worded precisely enough to allow trustees,
the trustees and the persons referred to in the article to identify with precision the persons concerned concerned.
In addition, the article provides that trustees and fiduciaries must collect "basic information",
without specifying this “elementary information”. Moreover, contrary to Article 2, paragraph
2, Article 3 does not require that the data be “adequate”, which contributes to the vagueness of this
arrangement.

Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the GDPR states that only adequate, relevant and necessary data
with regard to the purposes pursued by the controller must be collected (principle of minimization
Datas). In order to prevent indiscriminate and arbitrary data collection, it would be appropriate to analyze the
necessity and proportionality of the data to be processed by trustees and fiduciaries in the context
of this Bill, including the necessity and proportionality of Article 3 of the Bill. Furthermore, to
following the example of the recommendation of the European Data Protection Supervisor (hereinafter "the EDPS") issued
in its opinion on draft directive no. 2015/84945, the CNPD considers it necessary to amend the bill in order to
to indicate therein the categories of data, which must be obtained and kept by trustees and fiduciaries.
If the authors of the bill consider it necessary to impose a collection of supporting documents, they should
also specify the supporting documents in question.

The National Commission also notes that the notions of “category of beneficial owners” and “scope
effective interests held" are not defined in the draft law. In order to clearly define the information
that must be kept and thus respect the principle of data minimization, it therefore suggests
clarify these concepts.

45 Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor of 4 July 2013 on a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the
prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, and a proposal for a Parliament regulation
European Parliament and of the Council on information accompanying transfers of funds, points 83-84.

115

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD II. As for the transmission of data held by fiduciaries and trustees to national authorities,

self-regulatory bodies and professionals (Articles 5 and 6)

Article 5, paragraph 1 and 2 of the draft law stipulates that fiduciaries and trustees must provide the authorities
authorities for the purposes of their missions and to self-regulatory organizations for the purposes of their missions under
of this law and of the amended law of 12 November 2004 relating to the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism, on request, "the information referred to in Articles 2 and 3, as well as, where appropriate,
the unique registration number referred to in Article 13(3) or a certificate providing proof of
registration in an equivalent register set up by another Member State or an extract from the
beneficial ownership information maintained in such a register”. The "national authorities" are all
the authorities, administrations and entities indicated in Article 1, paragraph 1, point 1 of the draft law.

This article aims to transpose Article 31(3) of Directive 2015/84946, which provides that “States
Member States require competent authorities and FIUs to have timely access to the information referred to
in paragraph 1”.

As for the purposes of access to data, the commentary to the articles of the bill explains that this paragraph
aims not only to transpose Directive 2018/843, but also Article 22, paragraph 1a of Directive
2011/16/EU of the Council of 15 February 2011 relating to administrative cooperation in the field of taxation47.

In order to ensure compliance with data protection legislation, the text of the draft law should
specify the missions of the authorities that can access the data and clearly identify the purposes of the access.

Indeed, Article 8(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights requires that personal data
be processed fairly and for specific purposes. Thus, in accordance with the principle of purpose limitation,
the personal data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and
must not be processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes.

To satisfy the requirement of specificity, the purpose must be clearly and fully identified in order to determine
what processing is or is not included in the specified purpose and allow the assessment of compliance with the law and
the application of data protection safeguards48. The purposes still need to be made explicit, i.e.
i.e. clear, explained or expressed in some form to ensure that all persons
concerned have the same unequivocal understanding of the purposes of the processing, regardless of any diversity
cultural or linguistic.

In this regard, the CNPD agrees with the opinion of the EDPS on the European Commission's proposal amending the
Directive (EU) 2015/849 and Directive 2009/101/EC, according to which “In this respect, we consider that

46 Bill n°7216B, doc. parl n°7216B/03, Commentary on the articles, p. 11.
47 Bill n°7216B, doc. parl n°7216B/03, Commentary on the articles, p. 11.
48 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 39.
49 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 39.

116

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Legislative instruments allowing multiple and/or simultaneous processing of personal data by
different data controllers and for incompatible purposes, without specifying the purpose for which each
data processing is carried out, is likely to cause considerable confusion as regards the application of the
principle of proportionality.

In cases where the purposes of data processing are defined by general terms or
vague, or for which the various data controllers have a completely
different with the purpose pursued both in terms of the structure or resources and the capacity of each
responsible to comply with the rules in certain given circumstances, the principle of purpose limitation is
formally and substantially compromised and, therefore, the principle of proportionality will not be
no longer duly applied”.

Thus, in order to respect the principle of purpose limitation, the bill should specify the purposes for
which national authorities can receive data.

In addition, the CNPD can only agree with the opinion of the Council of State relating to Article 1 of Bill No. 7216A
concerning “national authorities”, according to which the authors of the bill should restrict access
to “judicial police officers approved by the Director General of the Grand Ducal Police or the Director of
the Customs and Excise Administration” and should delete point h), namely the Customs Administration
and excise.
 
As for the form of the request, namely "on request", it is also useful to recall that the public authorities,
such as tax and customs authorities, financial investigation units, administrative authorities
independent financial market authorities or authorities responsible for the regulation and supervision of
securities markets, which are likely to receive communication of personal data
in the context of a specific fact-finding mission in accordance with Union law or the law of a Member State
are not considered recipients. Requests for communication sent by the authorities
public should always be presented in writing, be reasoned and be of an occasional nature, and they should not
should not relate to the entirety of a file nor lead to the interconnection of files and the processing of data
by the public authorities in question must comply with the applicable rules on the protection of
data according to the purposes of the processing.

As for professionals, the bill requires trustees and fiduciaries to provide
professionals, upon request, for the sole purpose of implementing their duty of care arising
of the amended law of 12 November 2004 "information on the assets of the trust and the assets of
trusts held or managed within the framework of the business relationship” (article 6, paragraph 2 of the bill).
According to the commentary to the articles, this provision ensures the implementation of the requirements arising

50 Article 4, point 9 and recital 31 of the GDPR, article 2, paragraph 1, point 10 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
processing of personal data in criminal matters and in matters of national security, Article 3, point 10 and recital 22 of Directive (EU)
2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of
criminal sanctions, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

117

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD of the interpretative note to recommendation 25, point 2 of the FATF51. Lack of explanation in
bill, the CNPD is not in a position to assess the necessity and proportionality of such a
arrangement.

III. With regard to Article 8, paragraphs 5 and 6

In addition to the obligation provided for in Article 5 of the draft law, Article 8, paragraphs 5 and 6 of the draft law
law obliges fiduciaries and trustees, respectively, professionals to provide, upon request, any information
that they hold on any trust or any trust to the persons referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, point 1,
letters a) to c) and point 2 of the bill, namely the State Attorney General, the State Prosecutors as well as
the members of their public prosecutor's offices, the investigating judges, the FIU and the supervisory authorities. Being
given that article 5 of the draft law obliges trustees and fiduciaries to transmit information relating to
to any trust and any express trust, the provision under review seems to relate to any trust and not only
express trusts.

Apart from the mention that the provisions ensure the implementation of the requirements resulting from the interpretative note
25, point 4 of the FATF, the commentary to the articles does not provide any explanation of the necessity or proportionality
of such an additional obligation. It follows from Article 31(3) of Directive 2015/849 that the
competent authorities and FIUs must have timely access to the information referred to in paragraphs
1 of Section 31, namely to information collected by "the trustees of any express trust/of any
express trust”. Furthermore, the provisions do not mention the purposes for which the persons indicated
in article 1, paragraph 1, point 1, letters a) to c) and point 2 of the bill could receive the data. there
adds that any information about any fiduciary or trust could be requested. Is this the data referred to in
Article 14 of the bill or other data? Furthermore, data controllers who must
transmit the information to the persons indicated in Article 1, paragraph 1, point 1, letters a) to c) and point
2 of the bill are not precisely defined, so that the scope of this provision is
uncertain and vague.

IV. As for the register (chapters 3 to 5)

To. Regarding roles and responsibilities (Articles 16 to 18)

The CNPD notes that the AED should be considered as the data controller within the meaning of the GDPR (article 16,
paragraph 1 of the bill) for the register of trusts and trusts, the purposes of which are the conservation and
the provision of the information referred to in Article 14 (Article 12 of the draft law). The Technology Center
and information of the State would be considered as the processor within the meaning of the GDPR (article 16, paragraph 5
Bill).

51 Bill n°7216B, doc. parl n°7216B/03, Commentary on the articles, p. 12.
52 Bill no. 7216B, doc. parl n°7216B/03, Commentary on the articles, p. 12.

118

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The draft law specifies that the AED is not responsible for the content of the information entered (article 16, paragraph
3 of the bill), but that it can refuse an incomplete registration or one that does not comply with the legal provisions
or regulations (section 18 of the bill).

The CNPD wonders on the basis of which documents or data the AED would verify the conformity of the registration.
No details are provided either in the bill or in the commentary to the articles.

In the event that it is envisaged that the AED consults third-party databases to verify the accuracy of the
data, such consultations should be provided for by law, which specifies the databases to be consulted, the
terms of consultation and security measures.

As for Article 18, paragraph 2 of the draft law, it provides that in the event of refusal of an application for registration,
the applicant must submit the required supporting documents, without however indicating the supporting documents
could be requested.

The National Commission questions the necessity and proportionality of the transmission of supporting documents
to the AED and the preservation of these documents by the latter. Directive 2015/849 makes no mention of parts
supporting documents as part of the information contained in the register. Furthermore, as mentioned above,
section 2 of the bill requires fiduciaries and trustees to obtain and maintain information relating to
to the beneficial owners and Article 5 obliges them to transmit this information to the national authorities and to the
self-regulatory bodies, upon request.

The CNPD is therefore wondering whether it is necessary for supporting documents to be sent to the AED and
kept by the latter. Notwithstanding this, to the extent that the trust or fiduciary should convey
supporting documents to the AED, the nature or categories of these documents should be indicated in a legal text.
In the absence of such an indication, the controllers would risk transmitting information that is not
relevant.

b. As for access to the register by national authorities, self-regulatory bodies
    and professionals (articles 25 and 26)

As for the purposes of access to the register, it appears from article 25 of the bill under opinion that the authorities
national authorities have access to the information referred to in article 14 of the bill “in the exercise of their missions”
without these missions being specified. Article 26 specifies that self-regulatory organizations will be able to access
to data “in the exercise of their supervisory mission in the fight against money laundering and
the financing of terrorism”.

119

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Following the example of its remarks made in point III, the CNPD considers it necessary to specify the missions of the authorities
national purposes for which they can access the data held in the register, in order to circumscribe
clearly the access to this data and the use that can be made of it.

As for accessible data, the bill uses the same wording to regulate access to the data.
register by national authorities, self-regulatory bodies and professionals. Thus, these
“have access to the information referred to in Article 14 registered in the Register of Trusts and Trusts”53. These
same data will, in future, also be available through the system of interconnection of
national registers, in accordance with the national legislation of the Member State implementing the provisions
of Directive 2015/849 (Article 31(9) of Directive 2015/849). Article 33, paragraph 2 of the draft
of law, which transposes the said provision of the directive, thus indicates that the data referred to in its article 14 will be
available “in accordance with the terms of access provided for by this law and the measures taken for its
execution ".

The CNPD wonders whether the wording of Articles 25, paragraph 1 and 26, paragraph 1 and 2 implies
that the modalities of access to the register, including the accessible data and the search criteria,
will be the same for national authorities, self-regulatory bodies and professionals. By
elsewhere, is it intended to allow national authorities, self-regulatory bodies and
professionals to access the data stored in the register in accordance with Article 20 of the draft
law ? However, under the law of 13 January 2019, self-regulatory organizations and professionals cannot
can access only a limited selection of the data recorded in the register of beneficial owners at the
time of the consultation, namely surname, first name(s), nationality(ies), day of birth,
month of birth, year of birth, place of birth, country of residence, nature of interests
number of employees held and the extent of the effective interests held (article 12 of the law of January 13, 2019). Moreover,
the search criteria are not identical for professionals and self-regulatory bodies,
on the one hand, and national authorities on the other. Since any processing of data must be limited
to what is strictly necessary and also taking into account Article 31, paragraph 9, subparagraph 3 of the
Directive 2015/849, which explicitly requires that access via the system of interconnection of
registers to the information entered in the register must be done "in compliance with the rules on
of data protection", it raises, among other things, the question of the need for professionals
to have access to all the data entered in the register within the framework of the bill under opinion.
In view of the foregoing, the CNPD considers that the current wording of the bill allows too much access
broad in the register and considers it necessary to specify in the text of the bill the terms of access to the register, including
including accessible data and search criteria, in compliance with data protection rules
data, in particular by limiting access to only necessary data. Concerning the
professionals, it is at most data considered to be necessary under the law of the
January 13, 2019.

53 Article 25, paragraph 1 of the draft law with regard to national authorities, Article 26, paragraph 1 of the draft law with regard to bodies

of self-regulation and Article 26, paragraph 2 of the draft law with regard to professionals.

120

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES Finally, the National Commission notes that the terms of access for national authorities will be set by
grand-ducal regulation. It regrets that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not accompany the bill, which
which would have enabled him to analyze the entire future legal framework.

vs. Regarding access by the general public on the basis of legitimate interest (Article 27)

Article 27 of the draft law grants access to certain data entered in the register “on the basis of a
decision on a case-by-case basis by the director of the AED or his delegate, to any natural or legal person who demonstrates
a legitimate interest in the context of preventing the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or
financing of terrorism”. This provision aims to transpose Article 31(4) of Directive 2015/849.
In this regard, recital 28 of Directive 2018/843 should be recalled, which specifies that "When they set
the level of transparency of information on the beneficial owners of these trusts/trusts or constructions
similar legal provisions, Member States should take due account of the protection of fundamental rights
individuals, in particular the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data. ".

The collection and provision of data of the persons concerned, namely the beneficial owners of the
trusts and trusts, constitutes an interference with the fundamental rights to respect for private and family life
and the protection of personal data enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Rights
fundamental principles (hereinafter "the Charter"). In accordance with Article 52, paragraph 1 of the Charter, the exercise of these
rights may be limited, provided that:

• the interference is prescribed by law;
• the interference respects the essential content of the rights and freedoms;
• the interference is necessary, subject to the principle of proportionality; And
• the interference effectively meets objectives of general interest recognized by the Union or the need for protection

rights and freedoms of others.

In order to be proportional, the legislator must ensure that the acts are “suitable for achieving the legitimate objectives
pursued by the regulations in question and do not exceed the limits of what is appropriate and necessary to
the achievement of these objectives.

As regards the balance between transparency and the protection of personal data, the Court
of Justice ruled that "institutions are required to weigh up, before disclosing information
concerning a natural person, the interest of the Union in guaranteeing the transparency of its actions and the infringement of
rights recognized by sections 7 and 8 of the Charter. No automatic pre-eminence can be recognized in
the objective of transparency on the right to the protection of personal data […], even if interests
important economic issues are at stake.

54 Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland, C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, point 46 and the case law cited therein.
55 Judgment of 9 November 2010, Volker und Markus Schecke, C-92/09 and C-93/09, EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 85.

121

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Consequently, the legislator should be able to demonstrate that the derogations and limitations are limited
strictly necessary.

i. Accessible data

These people could access the surname, first names, nationalities, month and year of birth,
country of residence as well as the nature of the involvement of the person concerned in the fiduciary or in the trust
and the extent of the effective interests held (Article 27, paragraph 1 of the draft law). The CNPD welcomes the choice of
authors of the bill to limit access only to the data required by article 31, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2 of
Directive 2015/849.

ii. The requirement of legitimate interest

As for the condition of legitimate interest, the draft law specifies in its article 27, paragraph 2, subparagraph 4 that
the applicant must attach “any document likely to justify the existence of a legitimate interest”. Furthermore, the
paragraph 3 states that “for the purpose of assessing the existence of a legitimate interest, the director of the EDA or his
delegate takes into account any relevant circumstances that may indicate whether access to information is requested
with a view to contributing to the detection or prosecution of violations of the legislation relating to the fight against
money laundering and against the financing of terrorism”.

In addition, the director of the AED or his delegate takes into account the protection of the fundamental rights of persons,
in particular the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data when it is taken
of decision”.

It appears from the commentary to the articles that the director of the AED or his delegate can base his decision on all
the facts relating to the request submitted to him, including those which would not have been raised by the person
natural or legal plaintiff56.

According to recital 28 of Directive 2018/843, “the criteria and conditions for granting access to requests
information on the beneficial owners of trusts/trusts and similar legal arrangements should be
be sufficiently precise and consistent with the objectives of this Directive”. Thus, "Member States should
define legitimate interest in their national law, both as a general concept and as a determining criterion
access to information on beneficial owners” (recital 42 of Directive 2018/843).
  
Thus, in order to satisfy the requirement of foreseeability, the law should include objective criteria making it possible to
define the notion of “legitimate interest” in a precise and unequivocal manner57 and the criteria on which
the decision by the director of the AED or his delegate. The mere mention in the commentary of the articles that

56 Bill n°7216B, doc. parl n°7216B/03, Commentary on the articles, p. 23.
57 Opinion of 16 December 2016 of the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union, doc 15655/16, point 47.

122

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDAPPENDICES the decision could be based on all the elements relating to the request is not sufficiently clear to
meet the requirement of foreseeability and precision of a law.

A clear definition of legitimate interest is important because, as the EDPS has rightly pointed out, a definition that is too
broad scope of the concept of legitimate interest would risk encouraging those wishing to access this information to
purely opportunistic reasons. It is therefore appropriate to require a direct link between the justification and the interest and to require
that the use of the information obtained manifestly contributes to the achievement of the public objective in question59.

Thus, as specified by the legal service of the Council of the European Union when drawing up the directive
2018/843, “it would be necessary to integrate into the operative part of the proposal a definition containing criteria
objective and verifiable. In other words, the self-proclaimed mission statements of organizations focused on
transparency (or, incidentally, on the fight against money laundering) cannot be considered
as sufficient in themselves, but they must be combined with proof that the public utility of the
actions taken by the organization in this area has been independently recognized. »60.

The definition of “legitimate interest” should at least provide that a person could only access the data if
“it is able to demonstrate to the competent national authorities that it has the capacity and the intention to use
this information for the sole public interest in question (which must be precisely defined), and this in a way that does not
does not disproportionately infringe the right to respect for private life, and if it agrees to be submitted
to the authorization and control of the competent national authorities in the exercise of any activity in which it is carried out
use of all or part of the information thus obtained.

iii. The data necessary to obtain access to the register

It follows from Article 27, paragraph 2 of the draft law that a natural person wishing to obtain information
of the registry on the basis of its legitimate interest must provide the following personal data in support of
his request: his surnames, first names, nationalities, date of birth, place of birth and domicile or residence. There
applicant must still provide an extract from the criminal record.

No information is provided as to the necessity of these data and the criminal record, the comment of the
articles limiting themselves to explaining that “the criminal record must be given for each person who will have access to the
disclosed data”62.

Moreover, the bill does not specify either what type of criminal record bulletin should be provided, or the duration
retention of the criminal record following the filing of the request for access to the register. The CNPD is still wondering
on the vagueness of the wording used in the body of the bill compared to the precision in the
commentary on articles about people who must provide a criminal record. In fact, if several people

58 Opinion 1/2017 of the European Supervisor on the Commission proposal amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 and Directive 2009/101/EC, point 59.
59 Opinion of 16 December 2016 of the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union, doc 15655/16, point 46.
60 Opinion of 16 December 2016 of the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union, doc 15655/16, point 49.
61 Opinion of 16 December 2016 of the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union, doc 15655/16, point 49.
62 Bill n°7216B, doc. speak. No. 7216B/03, page 22.

123

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD would have access to the data, it follows that the criminal records of all these people should be provided.
What about the request made by a legal person, should we also provide a criminal record of all
the persons engaged with the legal person who could have access to the data? If so,
should the employer collect them and forward them to the AED or would the employees be expected to
transmit them individually?

In the absence of an explanation of the necessity and proportionality of these data and of more precision in
the body of the text, the CNPD is not in a position to analyze the compliance of the provision with the legislation on
data protection.

iv. The use of the data obtained

Furthermore, according to paragraph 4, the extract containing the information on the beneficial owners provided in
case of favorable decision “indicates the use for the purpose of which access is granted. The natural person or
plaintiff may not use the information for purposes other than those specified in the extract”. The CNPD
believes that the use for which access is granted should be exclusively within the context of the
bill and can in no case go beyond this framework. She thus wonders about the power of the director of
the AED or its delegate to determine the purposes for which the data from the
register and considers that the provision should be clarified in order to circumscribe this power.

d. As for access to information relating to a fiduciary or a trust that holds or owns a
controlling interest in a company or other legal entity other than those referred to in
Article 30 of Directive 2015/849 (Article 29)

Article 29 of the draft law transposes Article 31, paragraph 4, letter d) of Directive 2015/849, granting a
access to information relating to a trust or trust that owns or has a controlling interest in
a company or in another legal entity other than those referred to in Article 30(1) of the Directive
(EU) 2015/849 by direct or indirect ownership, in particular by means of bearer shares or through a
control by other means, to any natural or legal person who submits a written request relating to
such trust or trust. According to recital 28 of Directive 2018/843, “Member States should
be able to refuse a written request if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the written request is not
not consistent with the objectives of this Directive. ". The CNPD notes that the authors of the bill have not resumed
this possibility in the draft law.

Moreover, the bill does not regulate this access. For example, it does not determine what information to
accompany the request for access, nor how to identify the trust or the fiduciary, nor the period within which the AED must
respond to the request. The bill should therefore be amended to clearly regulate this access.

124

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES e. Regarding the interconnection of the register (Article 33)

Article 33 of the bill governs the future interconnection of the register with the registers set up in the other
Member States. The information referred to in Article 14 entered in the Register of Trusts and Trusts is
available through the system of interconnection of registers established by Article 22(2),
of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 in accordance with the access procedures provided for by the draft law and the measures
taken for its execution (paragraph 2).

Directive 2015/849 provides that only information which is up to date and which corresponds to the real
beneficial owners must be made available through the national register and the system
interconnection of registers. Access to this information must take place in compliance with the rules on
data protection (article 31, paragraph 9, subparagraph 3 of directive 2015/849). Therefore, in case
incorrect data would have been made available, it must be ensured that the AED transmits the data
subsequently corrected to recipients in accordance with Article 19 of the GDPR.

Like the EDPS Opinion on the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the
directives 89/666/EEC, 2005/56/EC and 2009/101/EC regarding the interconnection of central registers,
trade and companies, the CNPD notes that better accessibility of personal data
also entails increased risks for them63.

As to the data accessible and the purposes of access, given that the data recorded will be
available through the system of interconnection of registers, the CNPD wonders whether all the
data provided for in article 14, including the national identification number (“matricule”) within the meaning of the law
of June 19, 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons, should be accessible. She
refers in this respect to the remarks made above in point II. In addition, it is necessary to ensure compliance with the principle
purposes, even when exchanging data.

As for the duration of data retention, Article 33, paragraph 3 of the draft law provides that the data
referred to in Article 14 are available through the system of interconnection of registers for five
years after the grounds for registration referred to in Article 13, paragraphs 1 or 2 have ceased. The directive leaving
Member States the choice between a minimum duration of five years and a maximum duration of ten years, the CNPD
welcomes the choice of the authors of the bill to limit access to data to five years.

V. Regarding the rights of data subjects

As regards the controller of the register of beneficial owners, namely the AED, it will collect
the data indirectly and must, therefore, in principle, provide all the information provided for in Article 14

63 Opinion of 6 May 2011 European Data Protection Supervisor on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the directives
89/666/EEC, 2005/56/EC and 2009/101/EC regarding the interconnection of central, commercial and company registers, (2011/C 220/01), point 21.

125

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD of the GDPR within the deadlines provided for in Article 14, paragraph 3 of the GDPR. According to Article 14, paragraph 5,
letter (c) of the GDPR, the data controller is exempt from this obligation, if the obtaining or communication
is provided for by law, which must provide "appropriate measures to protect the legitimate interests of the
concerned person ". In this regard, recital 38 of Directive 2018/843 specifies that "persons
natural persons whose personal data are kept in national registers as
beneficial owners should be informed accordingly”.

Taking into account the publication of the data contained in the register and in order to protect the legitimate interests
data subjects, the CNPD considers it necessary to provide, like Article 21, paragraph 2 of the Royal Decree
of July 30, 2018 relating to the operating procedures of the UBO register, that the controller
should inform each natural person of their entry in the register64. The persons concerned should
also receive the other information indicated in Article 14, including in particular information relating to
their rights, as well as the procedures applicable to the exercise of these rights, in accordance with recital 38 of
Directive 2018/843. The National Commission considers that this information should be given within the deadlines
provided for in Article 14, paragraph 3 of the GDPR.

It should also be emphasized that trustees and fiduciaries, who collect the data directly
with the beneficial owners, have the obligation to provide them with the information set out in Article
13 GDPR. In order to protect the data subjects, the controller should inform the
data subjects of the specifics of the recording of their data. The authors of the bill could
be inspired by article 21 of the Belgian royal decree of 30 July 2018 relating to the operating procedures of the register
UBO.

With regard to the right to rectification, the CNPD notes that the draft law provides for a specific regime when
people notice a discrepancy between the beneficial ownership information available in the register
and the information on the beneficial owners it has and informs the AED (article 19 of the draft law).
To inform persons consulting the register that the data has been declared to be incorrect,
a note is inserted in the register and persons requesting access are informed that an update has
been requested (article 19, paragraph 3 of the bill). For the sake of clarity, it might be appropriate to add to the
bill a provision specifying the data rectification procedure to be followed by the data subject,
following the example of the procedure described in article 23 of the Belgian royal decree of July 30, 2018 relating to the methods of
operation of the UBO register:

“§ 1. Any natural person may, directly or through the Treasury Administration,
request, free of charge, from the person responsible for providing information of which he is the beneficial owner, the rectification or deletion
inaccurate data recorded in his name.

64 “The parties responsible for information shall inform their beneficial owners on a durable medium: 1° of the obligation on the part of the parties responsible for information to
communicate to the register the data referred to in Articles 3 and 4; 2° recording and storing this data in the register; 3° the name and
the address of the department responsible for managing the register within the Treasury Administration; 4° possible access to the register of listed entities and persons
in Articles 6 and 7; 5° the right of the beneficial owner, in accordance with Article 22, to be aware of the data recorded in his name in the register;
6° the right of the beneficial owner to the rectification and deletion of inaccurate data recorded in his name in the register, which must be exercised with the
responsible for information concerned in accordance with Article 23; 7° the retention period for the data recorded in the register determined in Article 25.

   The Treasury Administration informs the beneficial owners of their registration in the register and communicates to them the information recorded in their name. »

126

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES § 2. The person responsible for providing information is required, under his sole responsibility, to rectify or delete the data
inaccurate information recorded in relation to its beneficial owners in its own files and to communicate without
delay these modifications to the register. »

VI. Regarding the cooperation between the FIU, supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies (Article 32)

It follows from Article 32 of the draft law that the FIU, supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies
cooperate closely with each other. As for the form and purposes of the cooperation, paragraph 2 specifies that
“the supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit are authorized to exchange information
necessary for the accomplishment of their respective missions in the context of the fight against money laundering and
against the financing of terrorism. The supervisory authorities and the financial intelligence unit use the
information exchanged only for the accomplishment of these missions. »

No information is provided either on the form or on the purposes of the cooperation between the FIU, the authorities.
regulators and self-regulatory bodies. Specifically, the bill does not indicate whether organizations
self-regulatory bodies could exchange data with the FIU and supervisory authorities.

If, despite this, the self-regulatory bodies could be required to exchange personal data
with the FIU and the supervisory authorities, the Council of State has repeatedly stressed that the communication
information to third parties may constitute an interference with privacy65 and thus constitutes under
of Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, a matter reserved for formal law. It is therefore necessary that the points
essential are fixed by law.

Thus, to the extent that the FIU, supervisory authorities and self-regulatory bodies would exchange information
personal data, the draft law should regulate the cooperation of these data controllers,
specifying the form and purpose of this cooperation for all controllers, including
self-regulatory bodies.

As for international cooperation, article 32, paragraph 2 of the draft law establishes a legal framework for
international cooperation whereby supervisory authorities cooperate with their foreign counterpart authorities
within the limits of the provisions of article 9-2 of the amended law of November 12, 2004.
of Article 31(7) of Directive 2015/849 that “Member States shall ensure that the authorities
authorities and the FIUs are able to provide, in good time and free of charge, the information referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 3 to competent authorities and FIUs of other Member States”. The directive therefore envisages
a European exchange and not an exchange with third countries. In the absence of an analysis of the necessity and the
proportionality of the extension of this cooperation regime to third countries, the CNPD considers that these provisions
should be limited to transposing the provisions of Directive 2015/849.

65 Opinion of the Council of State of 21 November 2017 relating to bill no. 7182, doc. speak. 7182/02, page 7.

127

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT As decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on February 28, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

128

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Supplementary opinion relating to bill no. 7216B transposing article 31
of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering
capital or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the
European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Parliament Directive 2005/60/EC
European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC, as amended
by Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018
amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the system
financial institution for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing as well as
Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU.

(Deliberation n°9/2020 of April 3, 2020)

1. In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection of
data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on data protection, the
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the
CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other
institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of rights
and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

2. On February 28, 2020, the CNPD advised of draft law no. 7216B transposing article 31 of
Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, modifying
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC
of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC, as amended by
Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU)
2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or
financing of terrorism as well as Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU (hereinafter “the draft law”).

3. On March 31, 2020, the Minister of Finance invited the National Commission to decide
on the parliamentary amendments to the bill, adopted on March 30, 2020 by the Committee on
Finance and Budget of the Chamber of Deputies.

129

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT Regarding Article 3 of the Bill

4. Amendment 2 concerns Article 3 of the draft law and more specifically the obligation for trustees and
trustees to obtain and maintain basic information about other regulated agents and
trust or fiduciary service providers. The CNPD, in its opinion of February 28, 2020, and the Conseil
of State, in its opinion of March 24, 2020, considered that this provision was not formulated in a way
sufficiently precise.

5. Following amendment 2, the article now specifies that this obligation concerns all other professionals
referred to in article 2 of the amended law of 12 November 2004 on the fight against money laundering and
financing of terrorism who provide services to the trust or fiduciary or who enter into a business relationship
with the trust or fiduciary. The new paragraph 2 specifies what information must be obtained and kept
by the trustees and the fiduciaries, namely the information which allows “the trustees and the fiduciaries
to identify the persons concerned and include, in the case of a natural person, the information
referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2 point 1, letters a) to c) and h) to i)”. More specifically, these are the names
and first name, nationality, country of residence and private or professional address of the person
physical.

6. The National Commission still questions the necessity and proportionality of collecting this data
of “all other professionals who provide services to the trust or fiduciary or who enter into a relationship
business with the trust or fiduciary”. Taking into account his remarks made in point 7 below and as
such an obligation could lead to the collection of a multitude of data from many people
concerned, it reiterates its comments made in its opinion of February 28, 2020 relating to the analysis of the
necessity and proportionality of such an obligation.

7. While the CNPD welcomes the clarification in paragraph 2 of article 3, paragraph 1 of the bill,
she regrets that the provision does not clearly delimit the data to be collected, but rather provides that the
data to be collected “includes” the information referred to in article 14, paragraph 2 point 1, letters a) to c)
and h) to i). In an effort to minimize data, she suggests deleting the words “and include”
of the layout.

 

With regard to article 27 of the bill

8. The CNPD takes note of the additional explanations relating to Article 27, paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 of the bill,
namely the condition of having to provide an extract from the criminal record in order to be granted, on the basis of a
legitimate interest, access to certain data contained in the Register of Trusts and Trusts. According to these
explanations, the criminal record would be necessary to verify whether an applicant provides sufficient guarantees

130

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES of good repute. If the Council of State does not consider that the explanations would be sufficient to justify compliance
of the principles of necessity and appropriateness, the Finance and Budget Committee proposes to delete
the obligation to provide an extract from the criminal record.

9. The CNPD welcomes the clarifications relating to the fundamental rights of data subjects registered in the
Register of trusts and trusts as well as explanations as to the need to provide an extract from the register
judicial. She understands that this requirement is intended to protect data subjects on the register. She
notes with regret, however, that these explanations do not answer the questions raised by the CNPD
in its opinion of February 28, 2020 and to those raised by the Council of State in its opinion of March 24, 2020.
Moreover, like the Council of State, the CNPD wonders about the link between the extract from the criminal record and
access to the register. Would access be systematically refused to people who do not have a
clean criminal record extract?

10. Furthermore, the National Commission wonders about the two options presented by the authors: (a) maintain
the requirement to provide an extract from the criminal record, without providing guarantees aimed at supervising the processing
of the criminal record, or (b) remove this requirement from the bill without replacing it with others
measures to protect data subjects entered in the register against possible abuse. In effect,
these options do not really answer the questions raised by the CNPD and the Council of State. In case
the authors would like to remove the obligation to provide an extract from the criminal record, the CNPD further notes
that the bill does not require an applicant to provide identification in support of their application
and questions the absence of such an obligation. In any case, as the authors wish, at
rightly, to protect the fundamental rights of registered data subjects, authors could provide
other measures, such as, for example, proof of the security measures that would be implemented by the
applicant to protect the data or the requirement for more documents demonstrating the interest
legitimate (for example, information that demonstrates suspicions that a trust or fiduciary is being used or
has been used for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes).

11. Finally, the CNPD regrets that the authors of the bill did not follow its other recommendations

formulated in its opinion of February 28, 2020.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 3, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

131

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Additional opinion relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law
of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.

(Deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020)

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (EU) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter referred to as "the directive"), to which article 8 of the law of 1 August refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter the "Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for
data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”), “advises the Chamber of Deputies,
the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data”.

On February 28, 2020, the CNPD notified draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18
July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police (hereinafter the “draft law”).

On April 6, 2020, the Minister of Internal Security invited the National Commission to
to vote on the government amendment to the bill which was approved by the Council of
government in its session of March 20, 2020 (hereinafter the “government amendment”).

This additional opinion will be limited to commenting on points 1° and 2° of the government amendment, the
point 3° being favorably received by the National Commission.
 
1. The introduction of a new point 4° in paragraph 2 of article 43bis of the bill
 
Paragraph 2 of article 43bis defines and enumerates the criteria of places presenting a particular risk of
commission of crimes or misdemeanors or attacks on the security of persons or property, without however aiming
namely specific places.

However, the government amendment deviates from this logic because it introduces a new point 4° in the
paragraph 2 of article 43bis which specifically targets a place: the national football and rugby stadium located in
Cockelscheuer.

132

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The National Commission therefore wonders why this specific place is added when
points 1°, 2°, 3° and 5° of paragraph 2 of article 43bis, which do not refer to any particular place, remain
unchanged.
 
Indeed, it emerges from the general scheme of Article 43bis paragraph (2) that the initial intention of the authors of the
bill was to provide for a more general provision, likely to cover all places that fall within the
criteria of points 1° to 4°. In this logic, he will come back on the proposal of the Director of the Grand-Ducal Police and
then by the ministerial authorization to precisely designate the places (security zones) which fall within the scope
application of article 43bis.

An alternative solution would have been to provide in the bill an exhaustive list of specific places
placed under video surveillance, which, in the eyes of the CNPD, would not have been advisable from a point of view
legalistic.
 
However, as previously mentioned, the amendment under consideration deviates from the initial logic of the text.

The CNPD therefore considers that the addition of this new point 4° is superfluous and suggests deleting it, in
the extent to which the national football and rugby stadium located in Kockelscheuer is likely to be covered by the
criteria provided for the places referred to in point 3°, or even point 4° of the initial text of article 43bis of the bill.
  
This hypothesis is also expressly referred to by the authors of the bill in their commentary on
paragraph 2 of article 43bis of the bill. Indeed, the latter specify that: “Point 3 aims at
infrastructures such as stadiums or conference centers where events are regularly organized
national or international in scope. As in the past, video surveillance in these places will not be activated.
permanently, but only during the event in the context of which attacks on persons or
goods are likely to occur. We can cite, by way of example, the surroundings of the Josy BARTHEL stadium in
the occasion of an international football match (…)”.
 
2. The use of the notion of “safety zone” instead of the term “place” in paragraph 3 of article 43bis

Bill

 
The purpose of the government amendment is also to replace the term “place” with the notion of “area of
security” in paragraph 3 of article 43bis.

It appears from the commentary to the government amendment that the authors of the bill justify this
replacement, in order “to ensure consistency with previous legislation” and further specify that: “The term

133

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD “security zone” is also consistent with article 2 of this bill which provides that the maintenance of
video surveillance in places designated as security zones before the entry into force of this law
must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of the latter within a maximum period of twelve months following
entry into force of this law”.

First of all, it should be noted that the concept of “safety zone” introduced in paragraph 3 of article 43bis of the
bill differs from the term “safe area” as used in clause 2 of the bill, insofar as the latter
ci expressly refers to places designated as safe zones under the former legislation.
The notion of “safe area” introduced in paragraph 3 of article 43bis must be understood in the context
of this bill.
 
Thus, and although the National Commission understands the desire of the authors of the bill to take up the notion
of a “safety zone” in order to “ensure consistency with previous legislation”, it considers necessary, for
a better understanding of paragraph 3 of article 43bis, that this concept be defined in the bill.

Indeed, the introduction of the notion of “safety zone”, in isolation; to paragraph 3 of
Article 43bis, without having defined it beforehand, compromises the understanding of the said paragraph, all the more so
more while the term "safety zone" is different from the terminology used so far by the authors
of the bill in paragraphs 2 and 4 of the aforementioned article.

If the “safety zone” within the meaning of paragraph 3 of article 43bis designates a place at risk66 which has been delimited
beforehand by the Grand-Ducal Police then communicated to the Minister in charge of the Police in order to
that the latter issues a ministerial authorization for such a delimited place, then this must have emerged clearly from the
law Project.

Therefore, if the authors of the government amendment wish to make a parallelism with the former
legislation, it would be necessary to define the concept of "safe area" or to replace the term "places",
used in different places in article 43bis, by the terms “security zone”, or else delete the terms
“safety zone”, in order to standardize all the terminology used in the bill accordingly.
 
Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 17, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

66 Within the meaning of paragraph 2 of article 43bis of the bill.

134

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion on bill no. 7526 amending the amended law of May 30, 2005
relating to the specific provisions for the protection of the person with regard to the processing
personal data in the electronic communications sector and
amending Articles 88-2 and 88-4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

(Deliberation n°11/2020 of April 24, 2020

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated March 3, 2020, the Minister of Communications invited the National Commission
to rule on bill no. 7526 amending the amended law of 30 May 2005 relating to
specific provisions for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
in the electronic communications sector and amending articles 88-2 and 88-4 of the Code
of criminal investigation.

The bill tends to set up one or more geolocation systems for the authors of emergency calls more
specify that the current geolocation carried out exclusively by means of the terminals of the telephone network
mobile.

It anticipates the transposition of only Article 109 paragraph 6 of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the European electronic communications code.

The National Commission notes that the proposed new Article 5 paragraph (5bis) does not specify who must update
provision of the data in question. It can be inferred that this paragraph creates obligations exclusively to
responsibility of the service providers or operators mentioned in Article 5 paragraph (5) letter (a). If, however,
other companies, such as companies offering operating systems or software
installed on devices or companies offering WIFI access without being service providers or
operators, were required to participate – in any way – in the geolocation systems in
question, it should be mentioned in the text.

135

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The CNPD also wonders about the meaning of the terms "... the most appropriate..." used in the article
of the bill and which are taken literally from Article 109 paragraph (6) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972
aforementioned. Indeed, with a view to a correct transposition of the provision of the European directive in question, it is
asks whether, depending on the national situation or organization relating to call reception centers
urgently, it is not for the national legislator to designate or define in the text of the law itself which
emergency call reception centre(s) this is precisely.
 
 Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 24, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

136

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion on bill no. 7606 introducing a series of measures concerning
natural persons in the context of the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19)
and amending 1. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the delivery to the public
medication ; 2. the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing
in the market and advertising of medicines.

(Deliberation n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

On June 4, 2020, the Minister of Health asked the National Commission to rule on
project no. 7606 introducing a series of measures concerning natural persons in the
framework of the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) virus and amending 1. the amended law of 25 November
1975 concerning the supply of medicines to the public; 2. the amended law of 11 April 1983 on
regulation of the marketing and advertising of medicinal products (hereinafter the "draft law").
In the said letter, the Minister specified that the project in question must enter into force no later than
June 24, 2020, date of the lifting of the state of crisis, and that therefore, she asks us to send her our opinion
within the shortest possible time. The CNPD would like to point out that its opinion has thus been drawn up and adopted only
on the basis of the information available to it and subject to any unknown future considerations
nowadays.

The purpose of this bill is to create a legal framework relating to measures taken with regard to
individuals to continue the fight against Covid-19 by limiting the spread of SARS-CoV-2 on the
territory of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg through a limited catalog of well-defined measures. It emerges
of the explanatory memorandum that alongside the measures centered on natural persons, the bill is structured around
of the following three axes:

• limitation of freedom of assembly;

137

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT • the application of protective measures as well as the identification, monitoring and rapid removal of people

infected and susceptible to infection;

• the establishment of “certain guarantees around the processing of data necessary for monitoring individuals and

the fight against the pandemic. »

The National Commission would like to stress on a preliminary basis that the protection of personal data is not
to be considered as an obstacle to the implementation of personal data processing in the context of
the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, as long as the fundamental principles provided for by the GDPR are respected. She
thus intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the bill having an impact on respect for the
privacy and the protection of personal data, and more specifically in Article 9 thereof.

Ad article 9 of bill n°7606

Article 9 of bill n°7606 aims at the creation of an information system by the Department of Health, in order to
to monitor the evolution of the situation related to Covid-19 and to formulate recommendations in the interest of
public health for the attention of the Government (hereinafter: the “information system”). The comment of
the article specifies that for this purpose, a monitoring system with different indicators and types of data is implemented.
place, including both personal data and non-personal data which must
must be sent to the public health authority.

Pursuant to paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the Bill, various personal data concerning
people infected or presumed to be infected with Covid-19 must be sent to the Health Department by
hospitals, accommodation structures and healthcare networks with a view to detecting, evaluating,
monitoring and combating Covid-19. These data are listed in articles 3 and 4 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
mandatory notification of certain diseases in the context of public health protection. Given
that the draft law does not define other categories of individual data to be provided than those listed in
Articles 3 and 4 mentioned above, the National Commission considers that this article should be read restrictively and
that notwithstanding the fact that the list of data to be collected includes the precision "at least", it must not
not be extended in this case, otherwise it would have to be specified. The National Commission therefore understands that it is more
specifically surname, first name, address, date of birth, medical diagnosis, date of first symptoms
and date of medical diagnosis, date of sample and origin of sample, country where the disease was contracted
and source of infection if known.

It is therefore undeniable that special categories of personal data, known as data
"sensitive", will be processed through this information system. These data, including data concerning the
health, are specifically regulated by Article 9 of the GDPR. As a matter of principle, it is prohibited to process personal data
sensitive, unless one of the ten conditions provided for in paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the GDPR is met. Below

138

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES reserves the following comments and in relation to the declaration of January 30, 2020 of the World Organization
of Health (WHO) that the appearance of the SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) coronavirus constitutes a “health emergency
world”, as well as to the subsequent declaration of the state of crisis on the basis of article 32 paragraph 4 of the
Luxembourg Constitution by Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 202067, the CNPD considers that the exception
provided for in Article 9 paragraph 2) letter i) of the GDPR is applicable in this case. This provision provides more
specifically that the processing of sensitive data can be carried out when it is “necessary for reasons
of public interest in the field of public health, such as protection against cross-border threats
serious harm to health, or for the purpose of ensuring high standards of quality and safety of healthcare
and medicinal products or medical devices, on the basis of Union law or the law of the Member State which
provides for appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject,
including professional secrecy. »

Recital (46) of the GDPR specifies in this context that certain types of processing may be justified
both for important reasons of public interest and for the vital interests of the data subject, for example
when treatment is needed to track outbreaks and their spread.

In addition to Article 9 of the GDPR, the processing of personal data envisaged by the Health Department
must be based on one of the lawfulness criteria provided for in Article 6 of the GDPR. Based on the same considerations, the
CNPD considers that said processing is to be considered as "necessary for the performance of a mission of interest
public or falling within the exercise of official authority vested in the controller” (Article 6
paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR).

Recital (54) of the GDPR states in this context that the "processing of special categories of data
of a personal nature may be necessary for reasons of public interest in the areas of public health,
without the consent of the person concerned. »

The legal basis of the public interest on which the processing in question therefore rests68 makes applicable all
the rights provided for by the GDPR for the benefit of the persons concerned, excluding the right to portability. THE
bill n°7606 nevertheless provides in its article 9 paragraph (4) that persons infected or presumed
infected cannot object to the processing of their data in the information system referred to in that article.
By this exclusion of the right of opposition, it appears that the authors of the bill are making use of the option offered
by Article 23 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR to limit the rights of individuals to guarantee, in particular,
important public health goals.

Without prejudice to its remarks under point 2. concerning the data retention period, the CNPD may
a priori understand that this limitation of the right of opposition of infected persons, as well as persons
suspected infected and whose test is positive, is mandatory in order to be able to follow the evolution of this virus

67 This is the Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing a series of measures in the context of the fight against Covid-19.
68 By Article 6 paragraph (1) letter e) as well as Article 9 paragraph 2) letter i) of the GDPR.

139

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD still very little known by the scientific world, especially since at this stage it is premature to affirm with certainty
that the presence of antibodies is equivalent to immunity against infection, or even to decide on the duration
any such protection. Therefore, at present, a positive result of a serological test does not guarantee a
immunity. »69

However, since the CNPD does not have the necessary scientific and epidemiological skills, it is not
unable to assess, without additional and more precise explanations from the authors of the bill,
if the absolute restriction of the right of opposition of persons presumed to be infected, but whose test proves to be negative,
is really necessary in the fight against Covid-19.

Furthermore, pursuant to paragraph (2) of Article 23 of the GDPR, each legislative measure which aims to limit the
rights of data subjects must contain a number of specific provisions, including
listed. In order to assess whether the text of bill n°7606 complies with the provisions of the GDPR and responds more
in particular to the requirements of Article 9 paragraph (2) letter i) of the GDPR and of the said Article 23 paragraph (2)
of the GDPR, the CNPD will successively analyze the purposes of the processing and the categories of personal data
personnel (1.), the data retention period (2.), the safeguards intended to prevent misuse or access
or illicit transfer (3.), as well as the right of persons to be informed (4.).

1. Regarding the purposes of the processing and the categories of personal data

Article 9 paragraph (1) of draft law n°7606 lists four different purposes pursued by the implementation of
place of the information system for which the Health Department is to be considered responsible for processing
in accordance with the meaning of Article 4 point 7) of the GDPR. Pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter b) of the GDPR,
the purposes of data processing must be determined, explicit and legitimate. The CNPD considers that
the purposes, as currently described in article 9 of bill n°7606, may seem quite broad,
what it can a priori understand given that the consequences and the future development of Covid-19 have not
could yet be analyzed in detail by the Health Department. However, given the scale of the processing and the
sensitivity of the data that will be processed there, the National Commission recalls that these purposes must be understood
strictly and that any use of the data that would not be part of them would not respect the principle of
GDPR purpose limitation.

With regard to the categories of personal data, the CNPD wonders about the categories of
data subjects whose data are processed. The Covid-19 test strategy presented by Madame
the Minister of Health on May 22, 202070 includes three different ways in which PCR71 diagnostic tests are
used in Luxembourg: reactively in the presence of symptoms, actively for the benefit of certain
categories of people particularly at risk, as well as preventively by representative samples
(“cluster prevalence studies”) to support deconfinement.

69 Press release of 22 May 2020 from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research: “COVID-19 - A testing strategy
ambitious and at the service of public health”, available at: https://gouvernement.lu/dam-assets/documents/actualites/2020/05-mai/Communique-de-presse-
screening-2252020-.pdf.

70 Press release of 22 May 2020 from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research: “COVID-19 - A testing strategy
ambitious and at the service of public health”, available at: https://gouvernement.lu/dam-assets/documents/actualites/2020/05-mai/Communique-de-presse-
screening-2252020-.pdf.

71 Diagnostic test (qRT-PCR) (real-time polymerase chain reaction) used in Luxembourg and based on a swab sample taken from the nose

(nasopharyngeal) or by mouth (oro-pharyngeal), in search of the genetic material of the virus from the sample.

140

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES According to the CNPD's understanding of the configuration of the information system, the latter will contain the
data relating to two different categories of data subjects:

• Infected people, i.e. those who have tested positive for the SARS-CoV 2 virus, either following a
test prescribed by a doctor in the presence of symptoms, or following an active test
for the benefit of certain categories of people particularly at risk or as a preventive measure for
support deconfinement (“cluster prevalence studies”, the CON-VINCE study project and the “large
scale testing”).

• The CNPD understands that by combining the provisions of the law of 1 August 2018 on the mandatory declaration of
certain diseases in the context of the protection of public health, as well as Article 9 paragraph (2)
of Bill No. 7606, doctors, dentists, heads of analysis laboratories
medical facilities, hospitals, accommodation structures and healthcare networks are obliged to
transmit data relating to people infected or presumed to be infected with Covid-19 to the Management of
health. Nevertheless, for reasons of clarity, it proposes to list exhaustively the different
data sources in the body of the text of article 9 paragraph (2) of bill n°7606.

• Persons presumed to be infected, i.e. those covered by one of the situations provided for in Article 2
point 472 of bill n°7606. In this context, the CNPD is asking itself a question concerning the system
“contact tracing” which, at present, is done manually in Luxembourg. It emerges from
explanations contained on the Luxembourg government website dedicated to the Corona virus73 that the objective
pursued by said tracing system is to ensure that people who have had high-risk contacts
with a person whose infection is confirmed, therefore the presumed infected persons, put themselves in self-
quarantine in an attempt to break the chain of transmission of the virus.

  The National Commission nevertheless wonders what is the source of the personal data
of people presumed to be infected and how they will know of their obligation to
in quarantine. Does the infected person communicate the identification data (surname, first name, number
phone numbers, etc.) of people presumed infected to the Health Department, which will insert them into the
information system and then contact them? Or, on the other hand, will the infected person contact
the people presumed to be infected directly, the latter being in this case obliged to come forward
of their own free will with the Health Department, which will only then enter their data into the system.
information in order to be able to follow them?

  In the case where the source is the infected person who transmits the data to the Health Directorate,
the CNPD notes that this source is not listed in paragraph (2) of article 9 of the bill. The case
If necessary, the infected person should be added to the text as a source, just as it would be necessary to add,

72 Referring to the different situations when a person becomes a “presumed infected person”.
73 https://coronavirus.gouvernement.lu/fr/citoyens.html.

141

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT if applicable, the telephone number to the list of data that may be processed, insofar as this
data is the most efficient and fastest way to contact people.

The CNPD assumes that the data of all individuals who tested negative, except for the category
of people presumed to be infected, are not transmitted to the Health Department by the establishments
hospitals, accommodation structures and healthcare networks and should, a fortiori, not be found in the
information system. Should the information system nevertheless contain the said data, the Commission
national wonders what the purpose of this processing would be. A priori, she is of the opinion that no
of the purposes mentioned in article 9 paragraph (1) of bill n°7606 does not allow the recording and
retention in the information system of the data of individuals whose test has been negative (except again
the category of presumed infected persons). If the purpose pursued is to carry out scientific studies,
statistics and/or policy support, and insofar as it would not be possible to carry out such processing
from anonymized data, the CNPD considers that in these specific cases a collection of data
pseudonymised should be sufficient.

Under these conditions, the CNPD considers that the list of categories of personal data enumerated
above74 is not excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing and complies with the principle of minimizing
data which must lead to the collection of only strictly necessary data (article 5 paragraph (1) letter
c) GDPR). Furthermore, said list of data to be transferred (in addition to the telephone number, if applicable)
by hospitals, accommodation facilities and healthcare networks (in addition to the person
infected as a source, if applicable) to the Health Department should be considered exhaustive and not
may not exceed the categories of data mentioned therein.

2. Regarding the storage period

Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (e) of the GDPR provides that personal data must be
“kept in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding
not that necessary for the purposes for which they are processed”. It is also apparent from recital
(45) of the GDPR only when the processing is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or falling within the scope of
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller, it should be left to Union law
or the right of a Member State to establish, inter alia, the retention period of the data. Moreover, as already
aforementioned, Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (b) of the GDPR provides that personal data must
be “collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not be further processed in a
manner incompatible with those purposes.

Thus, the retention period must be determined according to the purpose that led to the collection of the data.
in question. Once this objective has been achieved, this data should be deleted or anonymised (in order in particular to
produce statistics).

74 Last name, first name, address, date of birth, medical diagnosis, date of first symptoms and date of medical diagnosis, date of sample and origin of sample,

country where the disease was contracted and the source of infection if known.

142

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES Article 9 paragraph (5) of bill no. 7606 provides that the personal data of persons
infected or presumed to be infected will be stored in the information system in a form allowing
the identification of persons for “the period necessary to prevent and combat Covid-19 and the data
are anonymized no later than six months after the law ceases to have effect. »

A priori, the draft law under examination will enter into force the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for a period of one month (article 13 of bill n°7606). The authors of the project
of law explain in the explanatory memorandum that the particularity of the bill is based on its applicability in the
time and that it will produce effects a priori only from June 25, 2020, end of the state of crisis, to July 25, 2020.
 
In the commentary to article 13 of the bill, it is specified that “the health situation in relation to the
The spread of Covid-19 is constantly evolving, which explains the limited duration of application of this
law. The National Commission therefore understands that the state of the health crisis will be reassessed before July 24
2020 and depending on the results, it assumes that the Chamber of Deputies may, if necessary, decide to
extend the applicability of the law in question.

It appears from the above that there is a double data retention period: the first period being that of
the end of applicability of the law (a priori on July 24, 2020 but depending on the circumstances, this period could be
extended as mentioned above) and the second deadline is six months after the end of the first deadline.

The commentary to article 9 of bill no. 7606 specifies in this context that “in view of the purposes of the
information system, the retention period of the personal data contained in the system is limited to
the duration of the management of the pandemic, increased by a period of six months to process any requests for
processing of data from foreign or European health authorities as well as to process any
requests related to scientific research, historical or statistical purposes. »

The National Commission wishes to stress first of all that it does not have the scientific expertise and
necessary epidemiological analysis, in order to assess whether the very retention of the data in the information system
people presumed to be infected, but whose test is negative, is really necessary within the framework of the
fight against Covid-19. In the absence of more precise explanations by the authors of the bill, it cannot
assess whether any arguments from scientific and epidemiological experts justify why
this data should be kept for a certain period of time.

With regard to the GDPR, it is necessary and essential to define a data retention period at the
within the Health Department's information system that is proportionate to the purpose pursued.
Therefore, it is necessary to define objective criteria making it possible to justify a retention period.
adequate.

143

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT At the risk of repeating ourselves, the CNPD is not an expert in health and epidemic management,
it is difficult for her to assess whether it is proportionate, in order to combat the expansion of Covid-19, that the data
personal data of infected and presumed infected persons will be kept in the system
information for a specified number of months. She wonders, however, what are the reasons
sanitary and/or scientific which led the authors of the bill to insert in article 9 paragraph
(5) GDPR a specific retention period of 6 months after future law ceases to produce
its effects.

By way of comparison, French law n°2020-546 of May 11, 2020 extending the state of health emergency and
supplementing its provisions contains a provision a priori similar to the text proposed by the legislator
Luxembourgish. Indeed, article 11 provides “that for the sole purpose of combating the spread of the epidemic of
covid-19 and for the duration strictly necessary for this purpose or, at most, for a period of six months from
the end of the state of health emergency declared by article 4 of emergency law n°2020-290 of March 23, 2020 for
dealing with the covid-19 epidemic, personal data concerning health relating to individuals
affected by this virus and to people who have been in contact with them can be treated and shared, as appropriate
where applicable without the consent of the persons concerned, within the framework of an information system created by decree
in the Council of State and implemented by the Minister for Health. »

However, paragraph 2 of the aforementioned article 11 contains an important clarification, insofar as "the personal data
personnel collected by these information systems for these purposes cannot be retained after a period of
three months after their collection”. Thus, even if the French system in itself will be able to operate until the
later than six months after the end of the state of health emergency, personal data should regularly
be deleted, or even anonymized, three months after they were collected.

In Belgium, Royal Decree No. 25 of May 28, 2020 amending Royal Decree No. 18 of May 4, 2020 establishing
a database from Sciensano as part of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus
COVID-19, entered into force on June 5, 2020. As Royal Decree No. 18 of May 4, 2020 already ceased its effects
on June 4, 2020, it was decided to extend it until June 30, 2020. In the report to the King, the Minister of Foreign Affairs
Belgian Social and Public Health clarified that "the deadline for the erasure of personal data
would be adjusted accordingly (July 5, 2020 instead of June 9, 2020)”, i.e. a retention period for
data five days after the end of validity of the decree in question.

In conclusion, the CNPD can only note that the legislators of the neighboring countries of Luxembourg have opted in
this context for much shorter retention periods. However, as mentioned above, the Commission
does not have the necessary elements and explanations at its disposal to decide on the proportionality
a retention period for the data of infected and presumed infected persons of six months after the
law will cease to have effect.

144

5ANNUALREPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES In order to ensure that the data is not kept longer than necessary, time limits should be
be set either for erasure or for periodic review. Thus, an alternative would be to provide that in
depending on the evolution of Covid-19, the relevance of a storage period a priori shorter than six months,
be regularly evaluated, especially since at present it is not possible to predict how many
times and for what period of time the applicability of the draft law will be extended.

3. As to safeguards intended to prevent misuse or unlawful access or transfer

The National Commission recalls that, whatever the emergency context, sufficient guarantees with regard to
compliance with the fundamental principles of the right to the protection of personal data must be
brought. The supervision of access to health data is essential in this context with regard to the requirements
provided for in Article 9 paragraph 2 letter i) of the GDPR.

Under Article 9 paragraph (3) of the bill under review, “only doctors and healthcare professionals
health, specifically designated and authorized within the framework of this law by the director of health or his
delegated to detect, assess, monitor and combat Covid-19 are authorized to access data relating
to the health of people who are infected or presumed to be infected. Said paragraph goes on to limit access to
data relating to health to the strict extent that it “is necessary for the performance of legal missions or
entrusted to them to prevent and combat Covid-19. »

Given the sensitive nature of health-related data, the National Commission can only approve
that the circle of people who can access health-related data and the context in which they access it
is circumscribed. It follows from Article 9 paragraph (3) of the Bill that all persons whom the Director of
health can authorize access to the information system are subject to the professional secrecy provided for in article 458
of the Penal Code, as furthermore required by the aforementioned Article 9 paragraph 2 letter i) of the GDPR.

Article 9 paragraph (5) of the bill further requires that “data are processed under conditions
guaranteeing its security, confidentiality and integrity. » In view of the nature and volume of the data
processed as well as risks for individuals in the event of a breach of data security, the CNPD considers
It is essential that adequate technical and organizational security measures are put in place in order to
to guarantee a state-of-the-art level of security in the health sector.

In this regard, the CNPD would like to emphasize the importance of the security obligation provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1)
letter f) and Article 32 of the GDPR, requiring that technical and organizational measures guaranteeing a
level of security appropriate to the risk, are put in place. It considers that the implementation of the processing of
personal data contained in the information system must in particular guarantee the use of
strong authentication of people with access and said system should be equipped with tracking (logging)

145

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD individual access for a period of five years from the recording of the log, which constitutes a
additional guarantee regarding the protection of personal data. It is also essential
that the data is irreversibly destroyed after the retention period has expired.

4. Regarding the rights of data subjects

Paragraph (4) of Article 9 of the draft law specifies that “the rights of data subjects provided for by the
General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are exercised with the Directorate of Health”.
As regards the limitation of the right of opposition, the CNPD refers to its observations above.

Under Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, the controller is obliged to provide data subjects
certain information when personal data is collected directly from them or
indirectly through a third party. Precise and appropriate information must therefore be provided to people
concerned in a particular health context.

Thus, under Article 14 of the GDPR, the Health Directorate is obliged to provide this information to the person
infected, these data coming a priori from a third party (hospital establishments, accommodation structures and
care networks). With regard to personal data relating to alleged persons
infected in the context of “contact tracing”, it is not clear whether this collection is carried out directly by
the Directorate of Health or indirectly (for example via the infected person himself). In both
hypotheses, the right to information of said persons is to be respected by the Health Department.

Finally, the CNPD would like to point out that when a person carries out a test, they should in principle already
be informed that in the event of a positive result, their personal data will be transferred to the
Department of Health and recorded there in their information system.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on June 8, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

146

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Supplementary opinion relating to bill no. 7606 introducing a series of
measures concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against the virus
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) and amending 1. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning
the distribution of medicines to the public; 2. the amended law of 11 April 1983 on
regulation of the marketing and advertising of medicinal products.

(Deliberation n°14/2020 of June 16, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the amendments adopted by the Health and Sports Committee on June 11, 2020 concerning
project no. 7606 introducing a series of measures concerning natural persons within the framework of
the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) virus and amending 1. the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning
the distribution of medicines to the public; 2. the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing
on the market and advertising of medicinal products (hereinafter the “draft law”), the CNPD still intends to formulate,
in addition to its initial opinion n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020, the following observations.

By amendment 3 of bill n°7606, the authors have notably inserted a new paragraph 2
in article 5 of the said draft and which concerns the activities of transporting people by collective means in
as part of an organized trip. Thus, in order to follow the evolution of the spread of Covid-19 within the framework
of an organized trip, the operator of a collective means of passenger transport “is required to transmit
as far as possible, on request, to the doctor of the Health Directorate or to the professionals
of health authorized under this law by the director of health the surname, first name, telephone number
phone and email addresses of individuals who have experienced high-risk exposure due to one of the
situations referred to in Article 2, point 4°. » The comment of the amendment adds that the data relating to
to passengers at high risk of being infected and which are sent to the Health Department on request specify
in addition “the means, date and time of transport and, if applicable, the car and the seat occupied by the case
index. »

147

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD It follows, as the authors of the amendment specify, that the operator of such a means of
transport already has the identification data of travelers who have used the means of transport
concerned and in which one or more infected persons could be located. However, while the initial purpose
of this collection of personal data of passengers is rather the organization of a trip, the CNPD
understands that the authors of the amendment have another purpose in this obligation to transfer on request
passenger data by the operator of a collective means of passenger transport to the Health Department:
set up a tracing system to identify anyone at risk or at high risk as soon as possible
to be infected in order to implement the necessary precautions (such as quarantine) and to prevent
thus the dissemination of the infection by these people who are in turn contagious.

The CNPD does not call into question the principle that this processing is necessary in order to pursue the aforementioned purpose.
and in order to provide the Health Department with the means to contact passengers as quickly as possible
potentially exposed.

Nevertheless, it wishes to make two remarks in this context:

• The commentary to the article specifies that the terms “operator of a collective means of passenger transport”
concern “land transport (long-distance buses, in particular during the summer holidays, trains
long distance), air and river". However, the CNPD wonders more specifically what is meant by
" organized trip ". Are individual and "unorganized" journeys (such as a simple flight
round trip from Luxembourg airport or a train journey by TGV from Luxembourg-city station)
are not covered by the provision in question and that therefore, even if we are in the presence of an operator of a means
collective transport of persons, this obligation to transmit, on request, passenger data to the
Direction de la santé would not apply in this case?

• As mentioned above, in order to be able to transfer the surname, first name, telephone number and address
electronic mail of people who have suffered high-risk exposure to the Health Directorate, operators
of a collective means of passenger transport must already be in possession of the said data.
The commentary to the amendment in question specifies in this respect that “the passenger affected by this measure must
give prior consent. »

  Nevertheless, the CNPD is of the opinion that it is implicit in the use of the words “is required to transmit”
in the body of the text of article 5 paragraph (2) of bill n°7606 as amended, that it is not a
simple option for operators depending on the passenger's agreement to transmit on request to Management
of health the aforementioned data, but that, on the other hand, they are obliged to carry out the said transfer. Moreover,
it doubts that the consent of the passengers would respect, if necessary, all the conditions provided for by the
GDPR to be lawful, especially with regard to its free nature.

148

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Concerning the retention period of personal data in general, the CNPD refers to
its comments thereon made in its aforementioned opinion of 8 June 2020 on draft law no. 7606. Related
the specific retention period of the personal data of passengers with the operator,
the authors specify in the commentary to the amendment that it “must not be longer than 14 days (duration
maximum incubation period, in the event of contamination during the trip, the contaminated passenger will already be ill
even) ; at the end of this period, they are destroyed. » The CNPD can only support this short deletion period
which appears to be proportionate in relation to the purpose pursued by the processing in question, that is to say, to send the
data relating to passengers at high risk of being infected to the Directorate of Health to ensure that they
self-quarantine in an attempt to break the chain of transmission of the virus. However, for reasons of
clarity and legal certainty, the CNPD suggests inserting this clarification on the data retention period
in the body of the text of article 5 paragraph (2) of the amended bill n°7606.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on June 16, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

149

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD

Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation establishing the headquarters of the Commission
National Data Protection Authority.

(Deliberation n°15/2020 of June 26, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated June 11, 2020, the Minister of Communications and Media invited the Commission
to decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation establishing the seat of the Commission
National Data Protection Authority (hereinafter the "Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation").

The entry into application of the GDPR was accompanied by an implementing law, the law of August 1, 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime
data. Article 3 of this law provides that the headquarters of the CNPD is determined by Grand-Ducal regulation. The rule
of 1 August 2018 establishing the seat of the National Commission for Data Protection
confirmed that maintaining the headquarters in Esch-sur-Alzette was the appropriate solution for the situation of the CNPD.

The explanatory memorandum to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation mentions in a relevant manner that with the entry into force
application of the GDPR, the implementing law and the law of 1 August 2018 on data protection
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the human and financial resources of the CNPD
have been substantially increased in order to respond to its new skills and missions, as well as its
new powers. The maximum capacities in terms of office spaces that can be made available by the
Fonds Belval were however affected.

The CNPD has therefore itself looked for premises corresponding to its needs located in the district
du Belval, but now coming under the municipality of Sanem, and no longer that of Esch-sur-Alzette. The project

150

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES of the Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion is part of the implementation of article 3 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime
data in that it is necessary to change the location of the CNPD headquarters from Esch-sur-Alzette to Sanem.

However, as the new premises of the CNPD are located more precisely in the territory of Belvaux, a
of the four localities of the municipality of Sanem, the CNPD proposes to specify in article 1 of the draft regulation
grand-ducal that the seat of the National Commission for Data Protection is located in the “Commune
of Sanem, locality of Belvaux”, instead of simply “Sanem”.

Furthermore, Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that the “Grand-Ducal Regulation of 1 August 2018
transferring the headquarters of the National Commission for Data Protection is repealed. “However, the text to
to repeal was entitled "Grand-ducal regulation of 1 August 2018 establishing the seat of the National Commission
for data protection”. Thus, the CNPD recommends replacing the word “transfer” by “fixation”.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on June 26, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

151

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill n°7622 1° introducing a series of measures to combat
against the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° amending 1) the amended law of 25 November 1975
concerning the supply of medicinal products to the public; 2) the amended law of April 11, 1983
regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products; 3°
repealing 1) the law of 24 June 2020 introducing a series of measures concerning
sports activities, cultural activities as well as establishments receiving
public, as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic; 2) the law of June 24, 2020
introducing a series of measures concerning natural persons in the
framework of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and amending the amended law of April 11, 1983
regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products.

(Deliberation n°16/2020 of July 8, 2020)

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

On July 7, 2020, the Minister of Health asked the National Commission to rule on
Bill No. 7622 1 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic; 2°
amending 1) the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the supply of medicinal products to the public; 2) the law
amended of 11 April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products;
3° repealing 1) the law of 24 June 2020 introducing a series of measures concerning the activities
sports, cultural activities and establishments open to the public, as part of the fight against
the Covid-19 pandemic; 2) the law of June 24, 2020 introducing a series of measures concerning the
individuals in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and amending the amended law of April 11
1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products (hereafter: “the draft
law no. 7622”).
 
It appears from the explanatory memorandum that in order to facilitate the readability of the measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the
this bill aims to merge into a single piece of legislation, on the one hand the law of 24 June 2020 introducing

152

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES of a series of measures concerning sports activities, cultural activities and establishments
receiving from the public, as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, and on the other hand the law of June 24, 2020
introducing a series of measures concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against
Covid-19 pandemic and amending the amended law of April 11, 1983 regulating the placing on the market
and the advertising of medicinal products (hereinafter: “the law of June 24, 2020”).

The CNPD refers in this context to its opinions n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020 and n°14/2020 of June 16, 2020 relating
Bill no. 7606, which became the law of June 24, 2020, introducing a series of measures concerning
individuals in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and amending the amended law of April 11
1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products. She welcomes that the majority
of his remarks made therein has been taken into account by the authors of bill n°7606.
 
It notes that the authors of bill no. 7622 under examination have taken up almost all of the provisions in
data protection provided for by the law of June 24, 2020. Indeed, article 5 of bill n ° 7622
largely repeats the provisions of article 4 of the law of June 24, 2020 concerning the tracing of
contacts, while article 10 of the said bill repeats the provisions of article 8 of the law of 24 June 2020
on the creation of an information system by the director of health.

Articles 5 paragraph (1) and 10 paragraph (3) of bill no. 7622 are subject to additions in the sense that at
on the side of the director of health or his delegate, the officials or employees designated for this purpose by the said director
are authorized in the context of contact tracing to process the data of infected or high-risk persons
risk of being infected, respectively of accessing their data contained in the aforementioned information system.
It appears from the commentary to article 10 of bill n°7622 that due to the increase in new
infections in recent days and correlatively of the workload of the contact tracing team of the
direction of health, as well as the lack of “doctors and health professionals in sufficient numbers to
carry out this work, it is proposed to give the health director the possibility of using, for the execution of
these tasks, also to officials or employees designated by him for this purpose. »

It is further specified in Article 10 paragraph (3) of the bill under opinion that all those who can access
to the information system, therefore also the civil servants or employees designated for this purpose by the director of health,
are subject to professional secrecy and that the provisions of Article 458 of the Criminal Code are applicable.
Under these restrictive conditions, that therefore the non-respect of professional secrecy in this context is subject
to the criminal penalties provided for in Article 458 of the Criminal Code, the CNPD considers that additional access to the
information system appear legitimate.
 
Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 8, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

153

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7543 amending the amended law of 18 July 2018
on the Grand-Ducal Police and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on: 1° setting the
terms and conditions of the special test of the examination-competition for admission to the
internship for treatment categories A and B and treatment group C1 of the framework
police officer  ; 2° setting the terms and conditions of recruitment for the group of
C2 treatment of the police framework; 3° amending the amended Grand-Ducal regulation
of September 30, 2015 setting the terms and conditions for registration and organization of
competitive examinations for admission to the internship in the administrations and services of the State.

(Deliberation n°17/2020 of 07/17/2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”) as well as in Article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Directive (EU) n°2016/680 of 27 April
2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
matters or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the decision-
Council Framework 2008/977/JHA, each supervisory authority has the task of advising “in accordance with
law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions and bodies with regard to
legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons
with regard to the treatment. »

Article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime specifically provides that the National Commission for
Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) carries out the tasks
with which it is invested by virtue of Article 57 of the GDPR, while Article 8 point 3° of the said law of August 1, 2018 is
based on Article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the aforementioned Directive (EU) No. 2016/680, providing that the CNPD
“advises the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies on the measures
legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data”.

By letter dated March 25, 2020, the Minister of Internal Security invited the Commission
to decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on: 1° setting the terms and conditions
the special test of the examination-competition for admission to the internship for salary categories A and B and the

154

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES processing group C1 of the police officer; 2° setting the terms and conditions of recruitment for the group of
C2 treatment of the police framework; 3° amending the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 30 September 2015
laying down the conditions and procedures for registration and organization of competitive examinations for admission to the internship in
State administrations and services (hereinafter the “Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation”).

This draft Grand-Ducal regulation is in line with draft law no. 7543 amending the law
of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police (hereinafter the “draft law”), as part of a reform
access to police careers and the training of trainee police officers.

If the purpose of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is in particular to set the conditions required for admission to the
internship for salary categories A and B and salary group C1 of the police officer, it should be noted
that the bill also provides that in order to be admitted to the internship, candidates must "have the qualities
morals necessary for the performance of one of the functions of the police officer”75. In order to determine whether candidates
meet this condition, a morality investigation is carried out by the Grand-Ducal Police.

Insofar as the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and the draft law both deal with the conditions of admission
during the internship for one of the functions of the police officer, the National Commission takes the initiative to notify the project of
law together with the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

I. On the bill

1. Preliminary remarks

The National Commission is pleased that Article 58 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police,
from the point of view of legal certainty, constitutes the legal basis of the morality investigation carried out by the Police
Luxembourg in the context set out above, in accordance with Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR76.

Indeed, it should be recalled that the processing of personal data collected and processed in the
framework of the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of the official authority vested in the
responsible for the processing must have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR,
read together with its paragraph (1) letters c) and e)77 which provides that: “The basis of the processing referred to in
paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:

To. Union law; Or
b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
  The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or relating to the exercise

75 Article 1 of the bill aimed at modifying article 58 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.
76 It should be specified that the Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in the field of
criminal law as well as in terms of national security is not intended to apply in the present case while the processing implemented by the Grand Ducal Police
are for recruitment purposes.

77 Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is met:
fulfilled: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject; (…) e) the processing is necessary
for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller; (…)”

155

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT public authority vested in the controller. This legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation, among others: the conditions
general rules governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are the subject
treatment; the people concerned ; the entities to which the personal data can
be communicated and the purposes for which they may be communicated; purpose limitation; durations
storage; and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure a
lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations such as
provides for Chapter IX. »

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a
legal obligation or the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority, of which
is vested with the controller. In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the processing of
data must specifically be defined either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State
to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or to European law.
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”.

Pursuant to the abovementioned provisions, these legal bases should establish specific provisions aimed at
to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the
data may be communicated and for what purposes, the data retention periods or even
processing operations and procedures. Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that "Where this
regulation refers to a legal basis or legislative measure, it does not necessarily mean that
the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament is required, without prejudice to the obligations provided for under the order
constitution of the Member State concerned. However, this legal basis or legislative measure should be
clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of
the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. ". On a national level
a legal basis can therefore constitute a legislative or regulatory act, which is the case in this case of the project
law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under consideration.

Thus, the National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of processing
of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the Convention
European Court of Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52

156

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

• is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

• is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
• respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
• effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect rights and freedoms

of others.

With regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights,
an interference with the right to respect for private life is not “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph
(2) of the European Convention on Human Rights78, unless it is based on an article of national law
which has certain characteristics. The expression “prescribed by law” therefore implies, according to case law
of the European Court of Human Rights that domestic legislation must use fairly clear terms to
indicate to all sufficiently in what circumstances and under what conditions it empowers the power
to resort to measures affecting their rights protected by the Convention79. Domestic legislation should be
“accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions”80. A rule is foreseeable "if
it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – possibly benefiting from a
appropriate assistance – to adapt one’s behavior”81 as well as “The degree of precision required of the ‘law’ in this
regard will depend on the subject in question. »82.

In order to fulfill these criteria of accessibility and predictability of the "law", on the one hand, and thus limit possible
arbitrary and abusive behavior on the part of public authorities, on the other hand, national law can therefore
provide for and regulate more specifically the processing of personal data carried out by such
authorities, such as the Grand Ducal Police. This legal framework would also guarantee the principle of security
legal aid for the benefit of those concerned, candidates for police careers. Legal certainty is
even a general principle of European Union law, requiring in particular that regulations resulting in
adverse consequences for individuals is clear and precise and its application foreseeable for
litigants. The regulations must allow interested parties to know the exact extent of the obligations
that it imposes on them, must enable them to know without ambiguity their rights and their obligations as well as their
allow them to make their arrangements accordingly.

78 Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that: “There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise
of this right only insofar as such interference is prescribed by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for the security
national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the maintenance of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or
morality, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others”

79 CouEDH, Fernández Martínez c. Spain [GC], n°56030/07, para. 117
80 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, n°23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n°25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

81 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. United Kingdom, n°8691/79, 26 April 1985, para.

66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

82 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. United Kingdom, n°6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, n°5947/72, 6205/73,

7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

83 See e.g. Court of Human Rights, Aurubis Balgaria of 31 March 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; Judgment, Alfamicro v. Commission of 14 November 2017, T-831/14, points

155-157.

157

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD This is why the European Court of Human Rights in its case law affirms that
“domestic law must offer some protection against arbitrary attacks by public power on
rights guaranteed by Article 8 paragraph 1”84. Therefore, domestic legislation “should define the scope and
procedures for exercising power with sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued – to provide
the individual adequate protection against arbitrariness. The Court of Justice of the European Union considers that in the event
limitation of the protection of personal data or the right to respect for private life a legal text
“must provide clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the measure in question and imposing
a minimum of requirements so that the persons whose data has been retained have guarantees
sufficient to effectively protect their personal data against the risk of misuse as well as
only against any unlawful access and use of such data.

Therefore, insofar as the data processing implemented by the Grand-Ducal Police within the framework
of the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation constitute an interference with the right to respect for the
privacy of candidates for police careers, the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation should
provide a more specific framework for such processing in accordance with the case law of the European Court of
human rights. This legal framework would also guarantee the principle of legal certainty for the benefit
of the persons concerned, candidates for police careers. Legal certainty is even a principle
general law of the European Union, requiring in particular that a regulation entailing consequences
adverse to individuals is clear and precise and its application predictable for litigants. There
regulation must allow interested parties to know exactly the extent of the obligations it imposes on them.
imposes, must allow them to know without ambiguity their rights and obligations as well as allow them to
make their arrangements accordingly.

In addition, the protection of personal data constitutes at the national level a matter reserved for the
law insofar as it relates to the protection of the privacy of citizens (Article 11 paragraph (3) of the Constitution). In
under article 32, paragraph (3), of the Constitution, in the said matters reserved to the law by the Constitution,
“The Grand Duke can only issue regulations and decrees by virtue of a specific legal provision which sets,
in addition to the objectives, the principles and essential points of the implementing measures. »88.

The essential elements89, the objectives and the principles90 must therefore be included in the law in the strict sense of the term.

Thus, and although the investigation of morality has a legal basis, as provided for by article 58 of the amended law
of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, the National Commission notes that the terms and conditions
of the processing implemented during the morality investigation are not specified in the aforementioned article 58, such as

84 ECtHR, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
85 Ibid. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone c. United Kingdom, series A n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; EDH Court, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
CE:ECHR:2014:0612JUD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court EDH, Liberty and others v. United Kingdom, n°58243/00, of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and 63;
EDH Court, Rotaru v. Romania, App. no. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court EDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, Application Nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04,
of December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.

86 Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.
87 See e.g. Court of Human Rights, Aurubis Balgaria of 31 March 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; Judgment, Alfamicro v. Commission of 14 November 2017, T-831/14, points

155-157.

88 Opinion no. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the Ermesinde high school.

89 Judgment of the Constitutional Court - Judgments n°00132 and 00133 of March 2, 2018.
90 Opinion No. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the Ermesinde high school.

158

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES amended by article 1 of the bill, while this investigation constitutes an interference in the right to respect for
privacy and the right to data protection.

2. On the investigation of morality

The National Commission welcomes that the morality investigation is provided for by a legal basis, as provided for in
Article 58 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police. Just as she welcomes the fact that the article
58 cited above, as amended by article 1 of the bill, now specifies the consequences of failure to
moral qualities necessary for the performance of one of the functions of the police officer. However, and as explained below
before, some clarifications should be made.

To. On the lack of definition of the moral qualities required by candidates for one of the functions of the

police officer in law

Indeed, in the absence of definition of the moral qualities required by the candidate for one of the functions of the executive
policeman, it is difficult to grasp the contours and the scope of the investigation of morality.

In addition, the lack of definition of the moral qualities required by candidates for one of the executive functions
police officer, which is nevertheless one of the essential conditions for their admission to the internship, does not respect the requirements
precision and predictability that a legal text must meet. A law must be sufficiently clear and precise
in order to allow the persons concerned to know the extent of the limitations, as well as the consequences
possible for them.

i. Principles identified by administrative case law

If article 58 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, as amended by the draft
law, remains silent as to the definition of the notions of moral qualities, it should be noted that case law
administration provides some answers as to what such notions cover.

It follows in particular from the principles identified by administrative case law that the morality of a candidate
to one of the functions of the police officer is assessed on the basis of broad criteria which are not based solely
on the assessment of the candidate's criminal record (for example the candidate's state of mind, his sense of
responsibilities)92. This is also corroborated by the parliamentary work relating to Bill No. 7045
on the reform of the Grand Ducal Police which specify in parliamentary document 7045/0993 that: "the
police officers are responsible for ensuring internal security and are therefore equipped with the means of constraint, which justifies
that their moral conditions are not assessed on the basis of the criminal record alone”.

91 See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06, § 228-229, December 4, 2015.
92 Indeed, administrative case law specifies that the notion of morality implies an overall assessment “of the moral qualities of a candidate for the examination and
in particular their state of mind, their sense of responsibility, their social abilities, their attitude towards respecting the standards of the country, given that the
members of the Grand Ducal Police have the mission of ensuring internal security by ensuring the maintenance of public order and the respect and execution
laws and regulations. ". See in this sense judgment of April 2, 2019 of the Administrative Tribunal of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 4th chamber, number 39804 of the roll,
and judgment of January 18, 2019 of the Administrative Tribunal of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 4th chamber, roll number 41619.

93 Pages 29 and 30.

159

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD It also emerges from administrative case law in this area that the assessment of a candidate's morality
must be done in concreto94 and falls within the discretionary power of the Grand Ducal Police95.

Consequently, insofar as it is not the law that defines the elements on which the investigation of morality or
what are the criteria or the degree of seriousness of the antecedents taken into account but the administrative jurisprudence and
this while the investigation of morality constitutes an undeniable interference in the right to privacy and protection
candidate data, the National Commission considers it necessary that Article 58, as referred to in the draft
law, reflects the principles established by administrative case law regarding the notion of moral quality.

Indeed, the current text lacks transparency and does not allow the candidate to know what the criteria or
what degree of seriousness of his background, if any, are taken into account by the Grand-Ducal Police, in order to
to assess whether he has the necessary moral qualities. During this investigation, is the Grand-Ducal Police
have to consult state files, internal files of the Grand Ducal Police or other files?
An enumeration of the files consulted, rather than the current formula used96, would allow the candidate to have a
better understanding of the conditions he must meet in order to access one of the functions of the police officer.

Furthermore, by way of example, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that the law of June 15
Exhibit Classification and Security Clearances 2004, as amended, provides for the terms
the security investigation to which State officials and State employees assigned to the Security Service are subject
information, in order to check in particular whether they have the guarantees of morality. Although this law does not define
not the notion of "guarantee of morality", it is however more precise with regard to access to databases.
data consulted as part of the security investigation and the processing of data collected during such
investigation (see Articles 21 to 23 of the aforementioned law).

ii. The national legal framework compared to that in Belgium and France

In the context of the recruitment of police officers, it is interesting to note that both Belgian and French law provide
a condition similar to that required by article 58 of the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Police
ducale namely that the candidate for one of the functions of the police officer must have the "moral qualities
necessary for the performance of one of the functions of the police officer”.

Indeed, in Belgium, a candidate for one of the posts of the operational framework within the police must in particular "be
irreproachable conduct and not present risk factors that constitute an obstacle to the commitment to the
font”97. The text of Belgian law further specifies that the aforementioned conditions result from: “a) a certified copy
complete criminal record dating from less than three months on the date of submission of the application;
b) an investigation of the environment and background, including in particular an interview with the candidate at the residence
and at the place of possible residence of the latter, carried out by the local police force; c) all the information

94 Case law states that: “the power to appoint is not required to take into consideration only criminally qualified facts directly related to the
function to be exercised, just as he is not bound by the assessment of certain facts made by correctional judges, in that the objective of his intervention is different
that of the latter who have to sanction reprehensible behavior within the meaning of the law, whereas the minister must ensure, through an assessment in concreto,
compliance with the conditions set by law for police candidates, particularly from the point of view of their morality. ". See in this sense judgment of April 2
2019 of the Administrative Tribunal of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 4th chamber, number 39804 of the roll, and judgment of January 18, 2019 of the Administrative Tribunal of
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 4th chamber, roll number 41619.

95 Judgment of 2 April 2019 of the Administrative Tribunal of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
96 Article 58 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 provides that the Grand-Ducal Police “may consult the files which are legally accessible to it and provided that

this consultation is relevant for the purpose sought”.

97 Article 12, 3° of the Law of 26 April 2002 relating to the essential elements of the status of members of the staff of the police services and laying down various other

policing provisions.

160

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES transmitted by the intelligence and security services and by the Coordination Body for
threat analysis; d) all available information relating to administrative sanctions
municipal penalties imposed for a mixed offence; e) judicial data, communicated by the services
police, with the authorization of the competent judicial authorities; f) other data and information
validated available to the police. »98.

Ministerial decree of 28 December 2001 implementing certain provisions of the royal decree of 30 March
2001 on the legal position of police service personnel (hereinafter the "Royal Decree of 30 March 2001")
clarifies the contours and scope of the environmental and background investigation. Section 3 entitled “The investigation of
environment and background” details the people who carry out the survey and specifies the list of databases
consulted.

In France, in the context of recruitment within the police, one of the conditions required by the candidate is
that the latter must not have "entries in bulletin no. 2 of his criminal record that are incompatible with
performance of duties”99. In addition, an administrative inquiry is also carried out, as provided for in
Article L.114-1 of the Internal Security Code which essentially provides that “Administrative decisions
recruitment, (…) concerning either public employment involved in the exercise of sovereignty missions
of the State, either public or private jobs in the field of security or defense (…) may
be preceded by administrative inquiries intended to verify that the behavior of natural persons or
morals concerned is not incompatible with the exercise of the functions or missions envisaged” and that
“These surveys may give rise to the consultation of automated processing of personal data.
personnel covered by article 31 of law n°78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and
freedoms, with the exception of identification files. The conditions under which interested persons are
informed of this consultation are specified by decree. ".

According to article 31 of law n°78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms,
the processing of personal data implemented on behalf of the State and which is of interest to the
State security, defense or public security, or have as their object the prevention, research, observation
or the prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal convictions or security measures,
thus including the processing carried out by the national police and gendarmerie services, must be authorized
by order of the competent minister(s), issued after publication of a reasoned opinion by the National Commission
IT and Liberties (the French counterpart of the CNPD). The said treatments are thus all framed
legally, such as the criminal history file100, the serial analysis file101 or even
the file of wanted persons102.

Consequently and contrary to the current national legal framework, respectively to the draft law and draft regulation
grand-ducal under examination, it should be noted that both Belgian law and French law provide a framework

98 Article 12 of the Law of 26 April 2002 on the essential elements of the status of members of the staff of the police services and laying down various other

policing provisions.

99 Article 5 of Law No. 83-634 of July 13, 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants.
100 Provided for by articles 230-6 to 11 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
101 Provided for by articles 230-12 to 18 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
102 Provided for by article 230-19 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure

161

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT much more precise about the data processing carried out within the framework of these recruitment procedures.
In order to meet the requirements of precision and predictability that a legal text must meet, the CNPD
recommends that the authors of the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation draw inspiration from it.

b. On access to files which are legally accessible to the Grand-Ducal Police during the investigation of

morality

The National Commission welcomes the fact that Article 58 of the amended law of July 18, 2018 provides that the Police
Grand-Ducale “may consult the files which are legally accessible to it and provided that this consultation
is relevant to the purpose sought”.

The CNPD understands that the Grand Ducal Police therefore has access to all the files referred to in
Article 43 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police. In the absence of details about the
categories of data contained in such files and which would actually be consulted within the framework of
morality investigation, the National Commission cannot however assess whether such access is justified and
proportionate to the purpose sought, namely the recruitment of a candidate for one of the functions of the
police officer. This is all the more so since the access provided for to the files listed in article 43 of the amended law
of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police are for different purposes, namely in the exercise of
judicial and administrative police missions of members of the Police having the status of judicial officer or
administrative police officer.

In addition, the CNPD considers that the bill should specify the possible access of the Grand Ducal Police to its
own files, following the example of Belgian and French laws. This is all the more so in view of the recent concerns of citizens
regarding respect for public freedoms and the protection of their personal data in the police and
judiciary, it is therefore important that clarifications on access to the aforementioned files and systems be
found at the level of the law in the formal sense.

vs. On the criteria to be taken into account when assessing the moral qualities of the candidate

The National Commission welcomes the fact that the authors of the bill have specified in Article 1 of the bill which
modifies article 58 of the amended law of 18 July on the Grand Ducal Police what would be the consequences of
the candidate's lack of moral qualities. Indeed, when such qualities are lacking, the candidate is not
admitted to the course.

However, no details as to the criteria taken into account by the Grand Ducal Police when assessing
of the moral qualities of the candidate does not appear in the said article or in the comments of the authors of the project
of law. However, it is necessary that the criteria taken into account or the degree of seriousness of the history taken into

162

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES account by the Grand Ducal Police are specified beforehand in order to draw the consequences, namely the refusal
the admission of the candidate to the internship.
 
The National Commission also refers to its developments under point I. 2. A. of this opinion.

d. On the retention period of personal data

It should be recalled that pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, personal data
must not be kept longer than necessary for the achievement of the purposes for which they
are collected and processed.

The National Commission regrets that the draft law does not indicate the retention period for the data collected
relating to a candidate and therefore wonders what criteria would be used to determine such a duration.
Clarifications on this subject deserve to be provided by the authors of the bill.

Therefore, the CNPD is not in a position to assess whether the principle of limited data retention period is
respected.

3. Final remarks

Finally, it should be noted that on the basis of the current wording of article 58 of the amended law of 18 July
2018, the National Commission does not have all the information it needs in order to
enable a full assessment of whether the processing implemented as part of the morality investigation is
GDPR compliant.

Moreover, in the absence of details, certain questions remain unanswered: what are the categories of
data collected as part of these morality surveys? The right to information (articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR)
of the persons concerned is it respected during the implementation of the processing generated by the investigation of
morality?

In addition, the National Commission notes that in order to access certain professions,
background checks or investigations of character or good repute or even administrative investigations.
Such investigations or checks are carried out in particular to:

• persons subject to the background check procedure provided for in Chapter 3 of the draft
of the Grand-Ducal regulation relating to civil aviation security and the conditions of access to the airport of
Luxemburg;

163

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT • State officials and State employees assigned to the State Intelligence Service. A survey of

security is taken against them in order to verify in particular whether they have the guarantees of morality103;

• the candidate for a state employee position who must offer the “required guarantees of morality”104;
• candidates for the competitive examination for legal attachés. Candidates to be admitted to the examination-competition

must “provide the required guarantees of good repute”105;

• the agent who wishes to carry out the activity of guarding and surveillance. This must fulfill the conditions

of good repute106;

• persons requesting the granting of an authorization, approval or license in the field of weapons107.

Although this list is not exhaustive, it already makes it possible to realize the disparities that exist
under Luxembourg law with regard to investigations or background checks that would be carried out by
public administrations or authorities for access to certain professions.

For the sake of consistency, the National Commission wonders whether it would not be appropriate to harmonize
all of these procedures, for example using similar terminologies. Indeed, each of the laws
special use their own terminology, while certain notions seem to overlap. Such is the
case for example with the notions of honourability and morality. The use of a common terminology would allow
thus to ensure consistency in national law between these various disparate special laws which pursue
yet a similar purpose.

II. On the draft Grand-Ducal regulation

The purpose of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to specify the special stages organized by the
Grand Ducal Police must be passed for candidates wishing to access police careers in order to hold
account of the changes in terms of recruitment within the Police following the alignment of the procedures for
the examination-competition for access to police careers in the general framework of the Public Service.

In order to have a better reading of the regulatory text relating to recruitment in police careers, it is
It has been decided not to modify the Grand-Ducal regulation of 17 August 2018 on: 1° setting the conditions
recruitment of police personnel; 2° repeal of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 31 October 2001
determining the national services and international organizations in which police personnel can be
employed by order of the existing Government (hereinafter the “Grand-Ducal regulation of 17 August 2018”), but of
repeal it and replace it with the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under consideration.

The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the questions raised by the provisions of the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation under examination which deals with aspects related to respect for private life and the protection of
personal data.

103 See articles 21 to 23 of the law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and security clearances, as amended.
104 Article 3, paragraph (1), letter c) of the law of 25 March 2015 determining the regime and compensation for State employees.
105 Article 2, paragraph (2), 2) of the law of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés.
106 Article 8, 1) of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to private security and surveillance activities.
107 New article 14 of bill n°7425 on arms and ammunition (parliamentary document n°7425/07).

164

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES 1. On the morality investigation

Due to the repeal of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 17 August 2018, it should be noted that this
draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not provide as a condition of eligibility for the special test
for admission to the internship that the candidate offers the "guarantees of morality required in view of the investigation of
morality ordered by the Minister", contrary to what is specified in the Grand-Ducal regulation of 17 August
2018108.

However, the CNPD notes that this condition is intended to be maintained, as is apparent from Article 1 of the
bill under consideration. Since this condition is included in the draft law, it is therefore not necessary for it to be
also appears in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

2. On the medical examination

It follows from article 23 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion that the candidate before each admission to the
internship is subject to an in-depth medical examination, as detailed in article 24 of the said draft.

It should be recalled that the personal data collected as part of these examinations are to be
qualify as sensitive data within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, because they relate to the health of the candidates.
The processing of such data therefore requires specific protection109 and is subject to specific requirements.
more stringent.

The National Commission welcomes the fact that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation have specified in detail the
medical examinations to which candidates are subjected. Just as it is pleased that the criteria for incapacity to
such examinations are specified in Appendix A of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

In addition, the CNPD understands that the doctor from the Occupational Health Division of the public sector, the Administration
medical services of the public sector, in charge of such medical examinations, will transmit only to the service
competent authority of the Grand Ducal Police the information that the candidate is fit or unfit in accordance with
Article 3 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 5 March 2004 concerning health and safety at work and the control
service in the public service, as amended.

3. On access to the national register of natural persons

Paragraph (3) of Article 19 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation lists the documents that must be produced
by the candidate when applying for the special stage.

108 See articles 2 point 3°, 5 point 4° and 15 point 5° of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 17 August 2018 with regard to the conditions of eligibility for the examination-competition.
109 See the cases rendered by the CJEU of 8 April 1992, C-62-90, point 23 and of 5 October 1994, C-404/92, point 17.

165

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The last paragraph of the paragraph of the aforementioned article, however, provides that the latter “does not need to provide
a copy of his identity card or an extract of the birth certificate when the data concerning his name and
first name(s), date of birth and nationality are qualified as correct in the national register of persons
physical and if he has his habitual residence in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg”.

The National Commission understands that the Grand Ducal Police is therefore verifying the information
aforementioned of the candidate in the national register of natural persons.

However, if article 43, 1° of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police provides for access to this register to
members of the Grand Ducal Police with the status of judicial police officer or administrative police officer
within the framework of the exercise of their missions of judicial police and administrative police, it is necessary to note
that access to such data in the present case does not take place within the same framework but takes place within the
recruitment (see our developments in point I. 2. c. of this notice).

Access to this file for the purpose of recruiting candidates for police careers is therefore not provided for in Article
43 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police. This purpose should therefore be
provided for in the aforementioned article.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 17, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

166

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion relating to bill no. 7634 amending the law of July 17, 2020 introducing
of a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the law
amended of November 25, 1975 concerning the delivery of medicines to the public;
2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing on the market and
drug advertising.

(Deliberation n° 18/2020 of July 21, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

On July 20, 2020, the Minister of Health seized the National Commission to rule on the
bill no. 7634 amending the law of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat
the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the delivery to the public
medication ; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing on the market and the
drug advertising (hereinafter the "Bill").

After analyzing the bill, the CNPD finds that the provisions concerning the protection of the rights and
freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, and more specifically
articles 5 and 10 of the said bill, have not changed with respect to the corresponding provisions of the law
currently in force from 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the pandemic
Covid-19.

Nevertheless, the CNPD wishes to make a remark concerning the starting point of the retention period of the
personal data contained in the information system set up by the Director of Health in order to
to follow the evolution of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

Initially, bill n°7606 became the law of June 24, 2020 introducing a series of measures
concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic provided in its article

167

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 9 paragraph (5) that the aforementioned data “shall be anonymised no later than six months after the law ceases to apply.
produce its effects. »
 
In its opinion n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020 relating to said bill n°7606, the CNPD wondered what
were the health and/or scientific reasons which led the authors of the bill to insert a duration of
specific conservation of 6 months after the future law will cease to produce its effects and it had noted that
the legislators of the countries neighboring Luxembourg had opted in this context for retention periods
much shorter.

Following the amendments adopted by the Health and Sports Committee on June 11, 2020, it was held
account of the opinion of the CNPD and the retention period has been reduced from 6 to 3 months. Thus, Article 9 paragraph
(5) of Bill No. 7606 read as follows: "Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this
article, their conservation in a form allowing the identification of the persons is limited to the duration necessary
to prevent and combat Covid-19 and the data is anonymized no later than three months after the law
ceases to produce its effects. »

Following the additional opinion of the CNPD of June 16, 2020,110 additional amendments had been
adopted by the Health and Sports Commission.

On the proposal of the opinion of the Council of State of June 16, 2020, the provision in question has been modified in this sense
that the new article 8 (old article 9) paragraph (5) of bill no. 7606 read as follows “the
personal data processed are anonymized after a period of three months from the date of
end of the state of crisis as declared by the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing
of a series of measures in the context of the fight against Covid-19 and extended by the law of March 24, 2020 on
extension of the state of crisis declared by the Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing a
series of measures in the fight against Covid-19. »

Like the repealed law of 24 June 2020 introducing a series of measures concerning
natural persons in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and the law currently in force
of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the project
of law under opinion provides in its article 10 paragraph (5) that "the personal data processed are
anonymized at the end of a period of three months from the end of the state of crisis as declared by the
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing a series of measures within the framework of the
fight against Covid-19 and extended by the law of March 24, 2020 extending the state of crisis declared by
the Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing a series of measures as part of the fight against
against Covid-19. »
 

110 Deliberation n°14/2020 of June 16, 2020.

168

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES The CNPD must admit that in its opinion n°16/2020 of July 8, 2020 concerning bill n°7622 which became
the aforementioned law of July 17, 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic,
he escaped raising this point. However, as the law of March 24, 2020 extended the state of crisis declared by
the Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 March 2020 introducing a series of measures within the framework of the
fight against Covid-19 until June 24, 2020, omitting to modify this point would have the consequence that the
the aforementioned personal data must be anonymized by September 24, 2020, i.e. three
months from the end of the state of crisis. This would mean that as Article 18 of the bill under consideration
provides that the future law remains applicable until September 30, 2020 inclusive, the personal data
should be anonymized before the end of the applicability of the law. Furthermore, no more personal data
staff could not be processed by the health department from September 24, 2020.

The CNPD assumes that this situation was not desired by the authors of the bill. Thus, she suggests
foresee as a starting point, in terms of the duration after which the data will have to be anonymized,
the date of data collection or at least the day on which the future law will cease to have effect.
 
Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 21, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

169

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for people
elderly and amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of
co-ownership of built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating
relations between the State and organizations working in the social and family fields
and therapy as well as the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the quality of
services for the elderly.

(Deliberation n°19/2020 of 07/22/2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated February 6, 2020, the Minister for Family and Integration invited the Commission
to rule on draft law no. 7524 amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975
on the status of the co-ownership of buildings constructed; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations
between the State and organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields (hereinafter the “draft
law”) as well as on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the quality of services for the elderly
(“draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of this bill is to overhaul the section concerning the
the elderly of the law of September 8, 1998 regulating the relations between the State and the organizations working in the
social, family and therapeutic areas (hereinafter the “ASFT law”). The authors of the bill further specify
that the purpose of the bill is to “create a new legal framework intended for bodies managing services
and structures for the elderly which will supplement the provisions relating to the ASFT law”. The text under
avis thus organizes the action of the management bodies intervening in the fields of active ageing,
home care and long-stay accommodation for the elderly. The objective pursued by
the bill is to clarify the terminology and complete the concepts used in relation to the regulations
current.

170

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The National Commission intends to limit its observations to the questions raised by the provisions of the draft
law under examination which deal with aspects related to respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff. This opinion will not deal with the draft Grand-Ducal regulation because it does not raise any
observation from a personal data protection and privacy perspective.

I. On the processing of personal data carried out by the Minister

1. On the creation of a new public register

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill provides for the creation of a “register of structures and services for people
who will make public all information deemed relevant to the attention of the general public, in particular the
project of establishment and the standard contract concluded with the users”.

This new public register is created under the authority of the Minister having in his competences the law under opinion (here-
after the “minister”) and contains 7 headings entitled: “accommodation structures for the elderly”111,
“home help and care services”112, “day centers for the elderly”113, “Aktiv Plus clubs”114,
“meals on wheels services”115, “senior activity services”116 and “remote alarm services”117. The bill lists
for each of the aforementioned headings, all the information contained therein.

It should be noted that the said register will make public information which does not essentially constitute
personal data. Only information relating to the name of the manager and his
delegates, if any, constitute personal data.

The publication of such personal data does not raise any difficulty from the point of view of the application.
of the GDPR while this publication would be made under a legal obligation, which constitutes Articles 8,
22, 36, 49, 58, 68 and 77 of the bill.

2. On the processing of personal data carried out by the Minister in the context of requests

of approval addressed to him

The National Commission understands from reading the bill that the Minister is required to collect and process
personal data in the context of requests for approval addressed to it.

Indeed, the bill specifies that the application for approval, necessary for the exercise of each of the services
covered by the bill, is sent by the managing bodies to the Minister, and is accompanied by a
accreditation file which includes a number of documents and information118. These documents and
information contains personal data.

111 Article 8 of the bill.
112 Article 22 of the bill
113 Article 36 of the bill.
114 Article 49 of the bill.
115 Article 58 of the bill.
116 Article 68 of the bill.
117 Article 77 of the bill.
118 See Article 15 for “Services and accommodation structures for the elderly” (chapter 1); Article 29 for “Home help and care services”
(chapter 2) ; Article 43 for “Day centers for the elderly” (Chapter 3); Article 53 for “Aktiv Plus Clubs” (Chapter 4); section 62 for
“Meal Services on Wheels” (Chapter 5); Article 72 for “Services for senior citizens” (chapter 6); and article 84 for “Remote alarm services” (chapter 7).

171

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The National Commission therefore wonders whether the Minister is not required to keep a file centralizing all
data collected and processed as part of the authorization requests sent to it. If this should be the
case, it should be remembered that keeping a file of personal data collected and processed by a
administrative authority must have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR119.

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a
legal obligation or the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority, of which
is vested with the controller. In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the processing of
data must specifically be defined either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State
to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or to European law.
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”.

Pursuant to the abovementioned provisions, these legal bases should establish specific provisions aimed at
to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the
data may be communicated and for what purposes, the data retention periods or even
processing operations and procedures.

The National Commission therefore considers it essential, in the event that the Minister keeps a file, that it
be provided for in this bill. The legal provisions establishing such a register must contain the
items mentioned in the paragraph above.

In addition, the CNPD already intends to make observations in the developments below as to the
processing of personal data carried out by the Minister in the context of applications for approval which
are addressed to him.

To. On the purposes of the processing

In accordance with the principle of purpose limitation, personal data must be collected for purposes
specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not to be further processed in a manner incompatible with
these purposes.

119 Article 6 paragraph (3), read together with its paragraph (1) letters c) and e), provides that: “The basis for the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e),

is defined by:
To. Union law; Or
b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
 

The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in paragraph 1, point e), are necessary to
the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. This legal basis can
contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the
processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people concerned; the entities to which the data to
personal character can be communicated and the purposes for which they can be communicated; purpose limitation; retention periods; and the
processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other situations
special treatment as provided for in Chapter IX. ".

172

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES Although the draft law and the commentary to the articles do not expressly specify the purposes pursued
by the Minister, the CNPD understands that the personal data collected and processed by the Minister on
are for licensing and management purposes. In accordance with the principle of purpose limitation, such
data could not be used by the Minister for purposes other than those mentioned above.

b. On the categories of personal data and data subjects

The managing bodies, as defined in Chapters 1 to 7 of this bill, must attach to their
requests approval of the documents and information listed by the bill120.

The CNPD welcomes such a list which specifies, for each document or information covered by the project
of law, the persons concerned as well as the categories of data relating thereto.

Nevertheless, it appears from the provisions of the bill that the Minister "may request any other document
or information essential to the establishment of the file of the application for approval”121. Authors
of the bill specify on this subject in the comments of the articles that "The Minister reserves the right
to request any other document to verify the proper functioning and the non-endangerment of the
residents”122 without however specifying what types of documents it could be and the persons concerned
by these additional measures. If this "essential document or information" contains data to be
personal nature then the CNPD considers it necessary that details on this subject be provided in the draft
of law.

Furthermore, if the Minister were in this case to indirectly collect data relating to the bodies
managers, executives or supervisory staff from other state files, then such
communication of data between ministries or administrations should be specified in the text of the draft law.

vs. On access to data

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter f) of the GDPR, personal data must be
“processed in a way that ensures appropriate security of personal data, including the protection
against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage,
using appropriate technical or organizational measures (integrity and confidentiality)”.

In addition, Article 32 of the GDPR provides that “the controller and the processor shall implement the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk”.
Such measures must be implemented in order to avoid in particular unauthorized access to data or
data leaks.

120 See article 15 for “Services and accommodation facilities for the elderly” (chapter 1); Article 29 for “Home help and care services”
(chapter 2) ; Article 43 for “Day centers for the elderly” (Chapter 3); Article 53 for “Aktiv Plus Clubs” (Chapter 4); section 62 for
“Meal Services on Wheels” (Chapter 5); Article 72 for “Services for senior citizens” (chapter 6); and article 84 for “Remote alarm services” (chapter 7).

121 Paragraph (3) of sections 15, 29, 43, 53, 62, 72 and 84 of the bill.
122 The commentaries to articles 29, 43, 53, 62, 72 and 84 refer to the commentary to article 15.

173

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only people who have them
necessary in the exercise of their functions and professional tasks are entitled to have access to the
necessary data. The CNPD therefore recommends that provision be made within the ministry having the bill under
notice in its competence that access to such data is limited to only agents with a need to know.
as part of their function. It would also be appropriate to provide for the modalities of this access and to put in place
a procedure including appropriate safeguards aimed at excluding any use going beyond the purposes
for which these data are initially processed and in particular, provide for a logging system (i.e.
i.e. a recording in “log files” or “logs”) of user activities, anomalies and
security-related events.

d. On the data retention period

According to Article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data must not be stored
longer than necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are collected and processed.

The National Commission regrets that the authors of the bill did not indicate the retention periods
data processed for the purposes of granting and managing approvals, so that it is not able
to assess whether, in this case, the principle of limited data retention period is respected with regard to the
collection of this data.

II. On the processing of personal data carried out by the managing bodies

1. On the processing of personal data relating to the condition of professional good repute

managers and supervisory staff

It should be noted that the managing bodies responsible for the management and operation of the
structures or activities, as targeted by the bill, cannot employ for the positions of charge of
management and supervisory staff only persons who meet the conditions set by the bill for
occupying such positions.

One of the conditions that must be met by the manager and the supervisory staff is in particular
the condition of “professional integrity” which “is assessed on the basis of his background insofar as they
relate to facts dating back no more than ten years”123 124.

The bill further specifies with regard to this condition that: "constitutes a breach depriving the
responsible for managing professional integrity, any behavior or action that so seriously affects his
professional integrity that can no longer be tolerated, in the interest of the residents concerned, that he exercises or continues to

123 The same wording is repeated identically by articles 4, 18, 33, 47, 57, 66 and 75 of the bill with regard to executive officers.
124 The same wording is repeated identically by articles 5, 19, 34, 48, and 67 of the bill with regard to supervisory staff.

174

5ANNUALREPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES perform the function authorized or to be authorized”125 and that: “constitutes a breach depriving the agent of good repute
professional any behavior or action that affects his professional integrity so seriously that one does not
can no longer tolerate, in the interest of the residents [or users] concerned, that he exercises or continues to exercise the function
with which he is responsible.

In the absence of details in the bill and in the commentary to the articles, the CNPD wonders what
are the criteria for assessing such professional integrity.

If the condition of professional integrity is assessed on the basis of a criminal record, the CNPD includes
that this will be done in accordance with the legal provisions of article 8-5 of the law of July 23, 2016 on
amendment 1) of the law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records, 2) of the Code of instruction
criminal, 3) of the Penal Code. If this is the case, she suggests specifying in the text of the bill for more
clarity the term "legal" just after the term "antecedents". Furthermore, it would be important to specify which
degree of seriousness of the criminal record would be taken into account by the managing bodies in order to assess
the condition of professional integrity of the manager and the supervisory staff. The CNPD questions
in particular if any entry in the criminal record automatically leads to a negative assessment in terms of
of professional integrity or if, on the other hand, the registrations must have reached a certain level of seriousness.

If this condition of professional integrity is not limited to criminal records alone, the Commission
Nationale recommends specifying in the bill the elements to be taken into account to assess
professional integrity.

For example, the CNPD refers the authors of the bill to Chapter 3 entitled "Professional integrity".
of the amended law of September 2, 2011 regulating access to the professions of craftsman, merchant, industrialist
as well as certain liberal professions and the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 December 2011 determining the
terms of the administrative instruction provided for in article 28 of the amended law of 2 September 2011. These
legal provisions specify the elements on which professional integrity is assessed.

Finally, the CNPD understands that it is up to the managing bodies to assess the condition of good repute
professionalism of the person in charge of management and the supervising personnel, because the latter must produce, during the
application for approval, a certificate attesting that the manager and the supervisory staff fulfill
this condition. However, she wonders if the Minister is not equally likely to appreciate such a
reputation on the basis of the provisions set out in paragraphs (3) of Articles 15, 29, 43, 53, 62, 72 and 84 of the
bill128. If this were the case, it should be provided for in the text of the bill.

Furthermore, the National Commission wonders about the continuity of the provisions of Article 8 of the
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 8 December 1999 concerning the authorization to be granted to managers of

125 The same formulation is repeated identically by articles 4, 18, 33, 47, 57, 66 and 75 of the bill.
126 The same formulation is repeated identically by articles 5, 19, 34, 48, and 67 of the bill.
127 See articles 15, paragraph (2), 2° and 3°, 29, paragraph (2), 2° and 3°, 43, paragraph (2), 2° and 3°, 52, paragraph (2), 2 ° and 3°, 62 paragraph (2), 2°, 72,

paragraph (2), 2° and 3°, 84 paragraph (2), 2° and 3°.

128 See our developments under point I, 2, b) of this opinion.

175

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD services for the elderly, which provides that the condition of good repute is assessed in particular “on the basis of
all the elements provided by the administrative instruction”? Indeed, the CNPD understands that the provisions of said
Grand-Ducal regulation will no longer apply, insofar as the bill aims to establish
a new legal framework and to complete the ASFT law. She wonders, however, whether this administrative instruction
will always be performed? If so, it would be appropriate to include this element in the bill as well.
under examination as well as detailing the data to which the competent authority can access in the context of
administrative instructions.

2. On the creation of an individual file

To. About the controller

The National Commission regrets that the draft law does not specify which entity will be responsible
of the processing for the processing of personal data carried out within the framework of the establishment of the
aforementioned individual file.

Nevertheless, the draft law provides for an obligation for the managing bodies in charge of the operation
accommodation services and facilities for the elderly, home help and care services, health centres,
day care for the elderly, and remote alarm services, to establish an individual file for each resident or user
such services129. Indeed, it appears from the commentary on the articles of the authors of the bill130 that
manager must establish an individual file for each resident or user.

The controller within the meaning of the GDPR therefore seems to be the managing body. The CNPD suggests,
therefore, that it be mentioned in all the articles relating to the individual file that the managing body
will be the data controller.

b. On the legal basis on which the processing is based

It should be recalled that any processing of personal data is only lawful if at least one of the
conditions referred to in Article 6, paragraph (1), letters a) to f) are fulfilled.

The processing of personal data carried out by the managing bodies, within the framework of the
creation of an individual file, is based on a legal obligation, introduced by the bill in articles 12, 26,
40 and 81, and raises no particular observation.

Furthermore, it should be noted that the data collected under Articles 12, paragraph (2),
point 7°, 26, paragraph (2), point 6°, 40, paragraph (2), point 8° and 81, paragraph (2), point 7° are at

129 See article 12 for accommodation services and structures for the elderly, article 26 for home help and care services, article 40 for

day centers for the elderly, article 81 for remote alarm services.

130 See comments on articles 12, 26, 40 and 81.

176

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES qualify as sensitive data within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, these being relating to the health of residents and
users.

Such processing requires specific protection131 and is subject to stricter requirements. The treatment
of sensitive data is, in fact, prohibited unless one of the conditions referred to in paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the
GDPR is fulfilled.

With regard to the processing of sensitive data referred to in the aforementioned articles of the bill, the CNPD considers
that the condition referred to in Article 9, paragraph (2), letter h) of the GDPR is fulfilled in the present case in the
to the extent that the individual file is put in place in order to ensure, in particular, the medical follow-up and the continuity of
care of the resident or user.

vs. On the purposes of the processing of personal data

It should be noted that the articles of the bill creating an individual file do not mention the
purposes of the processing of personal data.

However, it appears from the commentary to Article 12 that the purpose of the personal file is to facilitate “the creation and
monitoring of the resident's care plan as well as access to the resident's data and thus makes it possible to find,
at any time, all the historical elements concerning his career and his activities. The single individual file
ensures continuity of care by offering a common file accessible by the various stakeholders during the
care of the resident and allows the traceability of each action on his file with regard to the aspects
forensic. ". Therefore, with regard to Article 12, the CNPD understands that the purposes of the processing are
essentially the follow-up of the care of the resident.

In the absence of comments from the authors of the bill on this subject for articles 26, 40 and 81, the
CNPD wonders whether the same purposes are applicable for the individual files referred to in Articles
aforementioned.

The National Commission recommends that the purposes of the processing be indicated in Articles 12, 26, 40
and 81 taking into account each time the specificity of the services offered.

d. On the categories of personal data

The National Commission welcomes that the categories of personal data collected by the
managing bodies are precisely listed in the articles of the bill relating to the file
individual.

131 See the cases rendered by the CJEU of 8 April 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of 5 October 1994, C-404/92, point 17.

177

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD However, the National Commission assumes that the national identification number (matricule) of residents
or users will be collected by the managing bodies when establishing such individual files.

If this is the case, she recommends specifying it in the text of articles 12, 26, 40 and 81 of the bill.
to avoid any future difficulties as the use of the national identification number is
strictly governed by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons,
the national register of natural persons, the identity card, the communal registers of persons
physical132.

e. On access to data

The National Commission welcomes that the draft law lists the persons and entities having access to
personal data contained in the personal file133. Just as it is pleased that the project
of law provides that the individual file is accessible to the persons and entities referred to in paragraphs (1) of the
articles 12, 26, 40 and 81 for the information referred to in paragraphs (2) of the said articles which concern them
in the exercise of their mission. It also appears from the bill that the Minister will not have access to such information.
folders.

With regard to access to the Long-Term Care Insurance Assessment and Control Administration, the CNPD
understands that the latter has access to the individual file within the framework of its control missions as detailed
in paragraph (1) of article 384bis.

Finally, with regard to access to the individual file for residents or users and, where applicable, their
legal representative with regard to their data, the National Commission wonders whether such access is
not similar to that provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR, which grants the data subject the right to access the
personal data that has been collected about him in order to become aware of the processing and to
verify legality.

If this is the case, it is suggested that the legal provisions providing that the resident or user, where applicable,
his legal representative, can access his personal file or only the data concerning him for the
legal representative under the conditions and in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR.

f. On the shelf life

It should be recalled that pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, personal data
must not be kept longer than necessary for the achievement of the purposes for which they
are collected and processed.

132 Indeed, Article 2, paragraph (6) provides that “The deeds, documents and files established for the performance of a service requested by the
person whose number is used and for whom a legal or regulatory provision requires the communication of the identification number must contain this
number ".

133 cf. paragraph 1 of articles 12, 26, 40 and 81 of the bill.

178

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The bill provides for each individual file a retention period of 10 years from the date of
end of the hosting contract134, the care contract135 or the service contract136.

The CNPD assumes that for setting the retention period of 10 years, the authors of the draft
law wanted to align with the retention period for patient medical records provided for in Article 15 (4)
of the law of July 24, 2014 on the rights and obligations of the patient. However, in the absence of explanations from the authors
of the draft law in the commentary to the aforementioned articles as to the need to keep the data for
a period of 10 years, the CNPD is unable to assess whether this period is adequate and proportionate to the
purposes pursued.

g. On the security of the processing

It should be recalled that under Article 32 of the GDPR, the controller must implement the
appropriate measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.

It is particularly appropriate to draw the attention of the authors of the draft law to the fact that insofar as
sensitive data (health data) are to be processed, the managing bodies must put in place
puts in place protective measures to ensure the confidentiality and security of such data, including
a logging system (i.e. recording in “log files” or “logs”) of activities
users, anomalies and security-related events. Indeed, the disclosure of sensitive data
could cause serious harm to users or residents.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on July 22, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

134 Last paragraph of paragraph (2) of Article 12.
135 Last paragraph of paragraph (2) of Article 26 and paragraph (3) of Article 40.
136 Paragraph (3) of Article 81.

179

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on bill no. 7257 amending the amended law of 21
September 2006 on residential leases and amending certain provisions of the
Civil Code.

(Deliberation n° 20/2020 of 07/28/2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated May 7, 2020, the Minister of Housing invited the National Commission
to decide on bill no. 7257 amending the amended law of September 21, 2006
on the lease for residential use and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code (hereinafter the “proposal
of law ").

The purpose of this bill is to amend the law of 21 September 2006 on leases for residential use
and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code (hereinafter the “Law of September 21, 2006”). Planned measures
by the bill are intended to deal with the housing crisis currently facing the Grand Duchy
of Luxemburg.

The main points of the bill are as follows:

• the introduction of a weighting coefficient (“rental reference value”) intended to limit the impact of

purchase price of rental properties on the legally possible rents;

• the obligation for lessors to include in any new lease contract the capital invested as well as the value of

rent reference;

• the redefinition of the concept of “luxury accommodation” appearing in the aforementioned law of September 21, 2006; And
• the creation of the national rent commission with national powers, in particular for the
collection of data relating to residential leases and for the subsequent setting of the “reference value
rent”.

180

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES This opinion will limit its observations to Article 1 point 5° of the bill insofar as it creates a bank of
data which will be kept by the National Rent Commission, the only article relating to data protection
of a personal nature.

1. Preliminary remarks

Article 1 point 5° of the bill introduces a new paragraph (6) to article 3 of the law of 21
September 2006 which provides for the obligation for each lessor to include in any new lease contract the capital
invested as well as the rent reference value. The lessor or his representative must also send a
copy of the lease contract to the national rent commission which will record in a database
“subject to the provisions of the law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data”137 “the location of the accommodation, the type of accommodation, the surname, first name and
address of the owner, surname and first name of the tenant, the capital invested, that adjusted to the reference year 1995,
the revalued and discounted amount, the reference value of the rent and the amount of the rent”. Surname, first name and address
of the owner, and the surname and first name of the tenant constitute personal data within the meaning of Article
4, paragraph (1) GDPR.

The National Commission is pleased that the bill provides for the principle of the creation of such a bank
of data in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR138. This article provides, in fact, a constraint
particular related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the execution
a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of public authority vested in the person responsible
of the treatment. In these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be provided for either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the
controller is submitted.

However, and although the principle of creating such a database is provided for in the proposal for
law, the National Commission notes that certain elements relating to the processing of data are not (or not
sufficiently) specified in the bill.

Indeed, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or to European law.
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”. Pursuant to the aforementioned provisions, these legal bases should contain
specific provisions concerning, inter alia, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the

137 The National Commission would like to point out that the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
was repealed by Article 72 of the Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on
data protection. It is therefore appropriate to refer to the legislation currently in force.

138 Article 6, paragraph (3) provides that the “legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of the Regulation, inter alia:
the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; the people concerned ; the entities to which the personal data
may be disclosed and the purposes for which they may be disclosed; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations
and processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific situations of
treatment as provided for in Chapter IX”.

181

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD entities to which the data may be communicated and for what purposes, the retention periods of the
data or processing operations and procedures.

2. On the determination of the purposes of the processing

It should be noted that in accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter b) of the GDPR, personal data
personal data must be “collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes ...”.

As set out above, Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1) letter c) and (e),
provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with an obligation
law or for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in
the controller. In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the data processing
must specifically be provided for either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State to which
the controller is subject.

Recital (41) of the GDPR further specifies that “this legal basis or legislative measure should be clear
and precise and its application should be foreseeable for the litigants, in accordance with the case-law of the Court
Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. ".

However, it should be noted that the current wording of the bill does not comply with the aforementioned provisions
whereas the purposes of the processing referred to in the new article 3 paragraph (6) of the law of 21 September 2006
do not clearly result from the bill.

Details as to the purposes that would be pursued are also not provided by the authors of the
Law proposition. Indeed, the latter limit themselves to setting out, in their commentary on Article 1 point 5° of the
bill, the process by which the data will be collected by the National Rent Commission.

Thus, it is specified that: "a copy of each lease contract concluded or modified after the entry into force of
this law, is transmitted within one month following the conclusion by the lessor or his representative - by
example a real estate agent — at the national rent commission”, then “the national commission registers
the location of the accommodation, the type of accommodation, the last name, first name and address of the owner, the last name and first name
of the tenant, the capital invested, that adjusted to the reference year 1995, the revalued and discounted amount, the value
rental reference and the agreed rental amount in a database”. It is further specified that
“(…) the national commission verifies the copies of the lease contracts sent to them under these
provisions. If the National Commission finds that a contract does not meet the requirements of the
this law, it shall take the initiative to have the contractual terms in question rectified”.

182

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES The CNPD therefore understands that the personal data collected by the National Commission
rents via the copy of the lease contract would be for two distinct purposes, one would be to meet
to its mission of control and the second would be so that these data appear in the database
aforementioned.

It should also be noted that, according to the explanatory memorandum, the aforementioned database makes it possible to put "the
statistical data, anonymized, available to the Observatoire de l’Habitat, STATEC and other research centers
research and statistics, in order to improve the monitoring of the rental market”139.

Nevertheless, as noted by the Council of State in its opinion of April 28, 2020 relating to this proposal
of law: “The communication of personal data could still be understood, to a certain extent,
with the view that the National Rent Commission would be in charge of setting the weighting coefficients.
However, according to the authors of the bill, this fixing will belong to the National Institute of Statistics and Statistics.
economic studies. »140.

Therefore, like the Council of State, the CNPD considers it necessary that the purposes of the processing carried out
by the National Rent Commission are clearly specified in the text of the bill and considers
therefore essential that the authors of the bill indicate precisely which categories of data
are processed for what purposes.

This problem arises with all the more importance since, as the Council of State points out, the
bill “in addition provides for substantial criminal penalties in the event of a breach of the obligation
Communication ".

In the absence of clarification of the purposes pursued, the National Commission wonders how the
national rent commission in the context of the implementation of the processing of personal data
staff covered by this bill is able to determine whether it complies with the principles
data minimization and limitation of data retention while in accordance with the
paragraph (2) of Article 5 of the GDPR the controller “shall be responsible for compliance with the
paragraph (1)141 and is able to demonstrate that it is complied with" (see sections 3 and 5 of this
notice).

The CNPD can only approve the remarks of the Council of State in that it “cannot accept that, failing
clear determination of a specific purpose of the processing, the data can be stored and used by
the National Rent Commission beyond the immediate examination which it may carry out under Article 5
of the bill under review. »142.

139 Page 27 of the bill.
140 Parliamentary document n°7257/05, page 4.
141 Article 5 paragraph (1) of the GDPR provides that: “(1) Personal data must be: (…)

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (data minimization); (…)
e) kept in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary with regard to the purposes for
which they are processed; personal data may be stored for longer periods as they will be processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes in accordance with Article
89(1), provided that the appropriate technical and organizational measures required by this Regulation are implemented in order to
guarantee the rights and freedoms of the data subject (limitation of storage); (…)”

142 Parliamentary document n°7257/05, page 4.

183

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 3. On the principle of minimizing personal data

Article 5 paragraph (1), letter c) of the GDPR provides that personal data must be
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

It follows from this principle that only the data necessary for the fulfillment of the purpose should be processed.
of the treatment. In other words, it is a question of not giving access to more data than those necessary for the
national rent commission as part of the processing implemented.

However, in the absence of precision as to the purposes that would be pursued by the National Commission for Rents
in the context of the implementation of the processing of personal data referred to in Article 1 point
5° of the bill, the CNPD is unable to assess whether the categories of data listed in
the aforementioned article are adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary with regard to these purposes. By
Consequently, the CNPD does not know whether the principle of data minimization would be respected in this case.

The National Commission would also like to emphasize the importance of this principle, since it is up to the legislator
to implement and concretely apply the principle of data minimization, otherwise the law will not
would not meet the requirement of precision and foreseeability that a legal text must meet without case law
of the European Court of Human Rights.

Although it is not possible for it to assess whether the principle of minimization would be respected, the CNPD is pleased that
point 5° of article 1 of the bill lists the personal data that will be included in the
the database144. However, it notes that it is not clear from the bill whether the copies
rental contract - which will undeniably contain other personal data than those listed
in Article 1 point 5° - are also required to appear in the database while lessors or
their representative are required to provide such a copy to the National Rent Commission, or if such
copies will appear in a separate database while the explanatory memorandum specifies that the commission
national “will centralize the lease contracts”.

Clarifications on this subject deserve to be provided by the authors of the bill.

4. Consultation of data contained in the database held by the National Commission

rents

The bill provides that "The database of data recorded by the National Commission for Rents
may be consulted for statistical and research purposes. The terms of consultation are set by
Grand-Ducal Regulation”.

143 See in particular ECHR, Libert c. France, 22 February 2018, paragraph 43.
144 According to article 1 point 5° of the bill, the national rent commission would collect “the location of the accommodation, the type of accommodation,
the surname, first name and address of the owner, the surname and first name of the tenant, the capital invested, that adjusted to the reference year 1995, the revalued amount and
discounted, the reference value of the rent and the amount of the rent” as well as the “(…) copy of each lease contract concluded or modified after the entry into force of
this law (…)”.

184

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES The authors of the bill specify in the commentary to the articles that "The database
recorded by the National Rent Commission can be consulted for statistical and information purposes.
research, such as STATEC, the Housing Observatory, research centres, for example. To this end the
data is obviously made anonymous. The terms of consultation are set by general regulation.
ducal”.

In the absence of a draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the procedures for consulting the bank of
data, the National Commission is not in a position to fully assess whether consultation of the data
contained in the “data bank registered by the National Rent Commission” complies with the
GDPR.

However, it would already like to point out that it appears from the comments of the authors of the bill
as to the provisions set out above, that only data made anonymous would be communicated to the
STATEC and the Observatoire de l’Habitat and “research centres”. The CNPD therefore understands that STATEC,
the Housing Observatory and the “research centres” (whose identity should be specified where necessary)
would not, in fact, have access to said database but only access to anonymized data
by the national rental commission.

To the extent that the comments of the authors of the bill differ from the legal provisions of
Article 1 point 5° of the bill, it is necessary to clearly mention in the bill whether it
this is direct access to personal data in the database or if it is
a communication of anonymized data, obtained on the basis of data appearing in the database of
data.

In addition, article 1 point 5° of the bill aimed at consulting data “for the purposes
statistics and research", it should be recalled that under the purpose limitation principle (Article 5
of the GDPR), personal data must be collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes,
and not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes. Thus, the data should not
not be processed for purposes "incompatible" with the original purposes. Nevertheless, recital 50 of the
GDPR specifies that “Further processing for archival purposes in the public interest, for research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes should be considered a lawful processing operation
compatible ".

Articles 6 paragraph (4) and 89 of the GDPR as well as article 65 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization
the National Data Protection Commission and the general data protection regime,
specify the appropriate measures that must be implemented by the controller during such
further data processing.

185

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The National Rent Commission will therefore have to fulfill all the conditions provided for by the provisions
legal provisions set out above in order to allow the communication of the personal data contained
in the said database at STATEC, at the Observatoire de l’Habitat and at “research centres”.

As mentioned above, the actual text of the bill does not specify that the data must be
anonymized for "statistical and research purposes", but only the commentary of the articles refers to it.
That said, the CNPD notes that such a measure does indeed constitute one of the appropriate measures referred to in Article 65.
of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018. This article indeed states that: “anonymisation, pseudonymisation at the
meaning of Article 4(5) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or other functional separation measures
ensuring that data collected for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes,
cannot be used to take decisions or actions with regard to the persons concerned”.

However, the National Commission intends to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that
anonymization is a treatment that consists of using a set of techniques in such a way as to make it impossible,
in practice, any identification of the person by any means whatsoever and this in an irreversible manner. At
contrary, pseudonymisation, as defined by Article 4 paragraph (5) of the GDPR, is a processing of
personal data carried out in such a way that they can no longer be attributed to a data subject
accurate without recourse to additional information, provided that such additional information
are stored separately and subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that the
personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person”.

Therefore, it is important that the authors of the bill analyze whether the national commission for
rents will communicate pseudonymized data within the meaning of the GDPR, or truly anonymized data
or “rendered anonymous”, in which case the GDPR would not apply from the moment such
data no longer allow any identification of the person by any means whatsoever and this in a way
irreversible.

Finally, the National Commission also suggests that the authors of the bill adopt the terminology
of the GDPR and the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection
data and the general data protection regime, with regard to the processing of data to
personal character "for statistical purposes" or for "scientific or historical research" purposes and not
as mentioned in this bill "for statistical and research purposes".

5. On the retention period of personal data

According to Article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data must not be
kept longer than necessary for the achievement of the purposes for which they are collected and processed.

186

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES In the absence of a retention period specified in the bill or in the comments on the
articles, the CNPD is unable to assess whether, in this case, the principle of limited retention
of data is respected concerning the collection of personal data recorded in the database of
data covered by this bill as well as concerning copies of the lease contract.

The CNPD therefore considers it necessary for the authors of the bill to specify in the text of Article 1
point 5° what is the retention period or at least the criteria for determining what is the
proportionate storage for the categories of data set out above.

Thus decided in Belvaux on July 28, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

187

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on draft law no. 7645 amending the amended law of July 17, 2020 on
introduction of a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1°
the amended law of November 25, 1975 concerning the supply of medicines to the public;
2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the placing on the market and
drug advertising.

(Deliberation n°22/2020 of September 10, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

On September 3, 2020, the Minister of Health called on the National Commission to decide
on a series of government amendments relating to bill no. 7645 amending the amended law of 17
July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the
amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning the supply of medicines to the public; 2° the amended law of 11
April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products (hereinafter the "draft
of law "). These amendments were approved by the Government Council at its meeting of August 28
2020 and by videoconference on September 2, 2020.

In a letter dated August 5, 2020 to the attention of the Minister of Health,145 the CNPD had followed up on the
request for an initial opinion concerning specifically bill n°7645. In the said letter, the CNPD noted
that the authors of the said bill had followed his argument146 with regard to the starting point of the
period after which the personal data appearing in the information system set up by the
director of health in order to follow the evolution of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus should be anonymized.
Indeed, Article 10 paragraph (5) of the initial version of the bill provided that personal data
personnel processed are anonymized at the latest at the end of a period of three months after the law has ceased
to produce its effects. For this reason, the CNPD did not consider it necessary to notify the project at that time.
of law under object.

145 This letter was published on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, available under the following link: https://chd.lu/wps/PA_RoleDesAffaires/FTSByteServingSer-
vletImpl?path=87A9599EDE62F169AA77DC4B5C45C83FF023D14EBB8E9616EA6C696E2FE1ACB1E9929DE543B86AC5030E1A177B55996B$6B72A85BA4
7BBAC5380CCB9F515EA5D0.

146 As specified in CNPD opinion no. 18/2020 of July 21, 2020 relating to draft law no.

of a series of measures concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.

188

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES Through government amendment no. 6, the Minister of Health proposes to amend the wording of the new
article 6 (former article 2) of bill n°7645 in the sense that article 10 paragraph (5) of the amended law
of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic provides
now that the personal data in question are no longer anonymized, but pseudonymized, and
this within three months after their collection.

As regards first of all the fixing of the starting point of the duration after which the personal data
personnel must be pseudonymised, the CNPD can only, for the purposes of proportionality and necessity,
support the choice to take the date of data collection and no longer the day when the future law will stop producing
its effects, especially if we take into account the government's desire to extend the applicability of the aforementioned law
from July 17, 2020 to December 31, 2020 inclusive147. However, the National Commission cannot approve the
decision to insert in the bill under consideration only an obligation for the health directorate of
pseudonymize and not to anonymize or even delete the data collected after a certain period of time. THE
commentary to amendment no. 6 does not specify why the term "anonymized" has been replaced
by the term "pseudonymised".

The National Commission would like to point out in this context that it welcomes the establishment of a procedure for
pseudonymization of the data processed by the health department, such a procedure being to be considered as
one of the technical and organizational measures that the controller may be required to implement
place, in order to mitigate the risks for the data subjects.148 However, it is essential to know that the data
of a personal nature that have been pseudonymised can by definition always be attributed to
a natural person determined by the use of additional information.149 Thus, the CNPD cannot
disagree with the assertion of the authors of the amendments in the commentary to amendment n°6 of the
bill that “it is still appropriate to retain the process of pseudonymization which prevents the data to be
personal character are linked to the original identity of a natural person”.

Therefore, as pseudonymized data is always to be considered as information
concerning an indirectly identifiable natural person, the GDPR applies in full to their processing.
Only if the personal data is rendered completely anonymous in such a way that the
data subject is not or no longer identifiable, by any means, than the GDPR
no longer applies.150 As this is not the case in the current text of the bill, there is a certain
number of questions relating to the processing of pseudonymised data, such as: who manages the
pseudonymization? Do we use a subcontractor? How is pseudonymization carried out from a
technical point of view? Who can make a re-identification and who controls, if necessary, the legitimacy of these re-identifications?
IDs? If the data is pseudonymised for long-term tracking, what are the purposes
continued? Is the data pseudonymised for scientific or statistical research purposes
or does the pseudonymization of the data constitute a technical and organizational security measure or

147 As provided by amendment n°7 of the bill.
148 As provided for by Article 32 paragraph (1) letter a) of the GDPR, see also Article 25 (1) of the GDPR which provides that: “[…] the controller shall
implement, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, technical and organizational measures
appropriate, such as pseudonymisation, which are intended to implement the principles relating to data protection […]. »

149 Article 4 point (5) of the GDPR defines pseudonymisation as “the processing of personal data in such a way that they can no longer be
attributed to a specific data subject without resorting to additional information, provided that this additional information is
kept separately and subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that personal data is not attributed
to an identified or identifiable natural person. »

150 See recital (26) GDPR.

189

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD are we pursuing these two goals? Are pseudonymised data made available to third parties for the purposes
scientific research?

Furthermore, as the GDPR fully applies to pseudonymised data, the authors of the bill
No. 7645 must imperatively take into account Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (e) of the GDPR providing that the
personal data may only be “kept in a form which allows the identification of
data subjects for a period not exceeding that necessary with regard to the purposes for which
they are processed”. It also follows from recital (45) of the GDPR that where the processing is necessary
for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller, it should be for Union law or the law of a Member State to establish, between
others, the data retention period. Furthermore, Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (b) of the GDPR provides that
personal data must be “collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and
not to be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes”.

Thus, as already mentioned in its opinion 13/2020 of June 8, 2020 relating to bill n°7606, the CNPD
recalls that “the retention period must be determined according to the objective that led to the collection
data in question. Once this objective has been achieved, this data should be deleted or anonymised (in order to
in particular to produce statistics). »

Furthermore, as mentioned above and taking into account that the legislation regulating the measures of
fight against the Covid-19 pandemic will, if necessary, be extended as long as the legislator deems it necessary,
the National Commission now favors as a starting point the duration after which the data to be
personal character must be pseudonymized the date of collection of the data and not the day when the future
law will cease to have effect. In this context, it aligns itself with the opinion of the Consultative Commission on Rights
Human Rights of August 28, 2020 concerning the bill under consideration which also considers that “with the aim of
proportionality and necessity, such a stricter approach would be preferred. »

To conclude, with regard to the GDPR, it is therefore necessary and essential to define in the body of the text of the draft
law a retention period for personal data stored in pseudonymized form within
of the information system of the health department which is proportionate with regard to the purpose pursued, i.e.
that is to say that the bill should specify a period after which data, whether pseudonymised or not, should
be permanently deleted or completely anonymized within the meaning of the GDPR. In the absence of such a provision,
it must be concluded that the pseudonymised data can be kept without limitation in time, this
which would be incompatible with the rules of the GDPR.

Thus decided in Belvaux in plenary session and unanimously adopted remotely by the four Commissioners on
September 10, 2020.

For the National Data Protection Commission

Tine A. Larsen
President

190

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion on government amendments to bill no. 7683 amending 1) the
amended law of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat
the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the amended law of 25 November 1975 concerning
the distribution of medicines to the public; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 on
regulation of the marketing and advertising of medicinal products; 2) the law
of September 23, 2020 on measures concerning the holding of meetings in the
companies and other legal persons.

(Deliberation n°23/2020 of October 27, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.
 
On October 26, 2020, the Minister of Health seized the National Commission to decide
on government amendments to bill no. 7683 amending 1) the amended law of July 17, 2020
introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and amending: 1° the amended law
of November 25, 1975 concerning the delivery to the public of medicinal products; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983
regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products; 2) the law of September 23
2020 on measures concerning the holding of meetings in companies and other legal persons
(hereafter: “Bill n°7683”). Said government amendments to bill n°7683 were
approved by the Government Council at its meeting of October 26, 2020.
 
Amendment 5 of bill n°7683 aims to modify the new article 6 (former article 5) in the sense that the
infected persons must provide information on their state of health and on the identity of persons with
which they have had contacts likely to generate a high risk of infection, to the director of health or
his delegate, to officials and employees designated for this purpose by the Director of Health, and henceforth also
employees made available to the Ministry of Health pursuant to Article L. 132-1 of the Labor Code relating to
temporary loan of labour.

191

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT It appears from the commentary to the aforementioned amendment 5 of bill no. 7683 that its purpose is “to be able to use
in addition to civil servants and employees, to employees made available to the Ministry of Health within the framework
a loan of labor in application of the provisions of the Labor Code relating thereto, in order to collect
information on the state of health of infected persons and on the identity of the persons with whom they have
been in contact. »

The CNPD fully understands that due to the vigorous increase in new infections these
days and correlatively of the workload of the contact tracing team of the health directorate, it
is necessary to increase in parallel the number of collaborators of the said team. Nevertheless, she finds
that article 10 paragraph (3) of bill n°7683, providing who is authorized in the context of the tracing of
contacts to access the data of infected persons or persons at high risk of being infected contained in the
information system set up for this purpose, has not been modified to add the aforementioned employees.
 
Thus, the CNPD recommends to the authors of bill n°7683 to insert in article 10 paragraph (3) of the said
project after "Only doctors and health professionals as well as civil servants and employees"
words “and employees made available to the Ministry of Health pursuant to Article L. 132-1 of the Code of
work ". Article 10 paragraph (3) of bill no. 7683 would then read as follows:
 
“Only doctors and health professionals as well as civil servants and employees and employees placed on
disposal of the Ministry of Health pursuant to Article L. 132-1 of the Labor Code, specifically designated
by the Director of Health, are authorized to access data relating to the health of infected persons or
at high risk of being infected. They access health-related data strictly to the extent that access is
necessary for the performance of the legal or conventional missions entrusted to them to prevent and combat
the Covid-19 pandemic and are bound by professional secrecy under the conditions and under the penalties provided for
in article 458 of the Penal Code. »
 
This addition would also have the consequence that the said employees would also be subject in this context to the
criminal sanctions provided for in article 458 of the criminal code in the event of breach of professional secrecy. Under these
restrictive conditions, the CNPD considers that additional access to the information system appears
legitimate.
 
Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on October 27, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

192

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion on bill no. 7635 introducing a series of temporary measures
in occupational safety and health in the context of the fight against COVID-19.

(Deliberation n°24/2020 of October 30, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
has the task of advising “in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing”. Article 7 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for Data Protection
(hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of
of Article 57 of the GDPR.

In this respect, the National Commission takes the matter itself to advise on draft law no. 7635 introducing a series
temporary occupational safety and health measures in the context of the fight against COVID-19
(hereinafter the "draft law") and more specifically its article 2 paragraph (2).

The CNPD's own referral comes in the context of numerous requests for information and complaints
introduced to it concerning on the one hand the data, in particular health, that the employees would be authorized
to communicate to the employer in the event of suspicion or contamination with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and on the other hand the
obligations of the employer with regard to the processing of this data.

Article 2 paragraph (2) of the bill under opinion, provides that “employees must report immediately, to
employer or designated employees and safety and health representatives, any work situation which they
have reasonable cause to believe that it presents a serious and immediate danger to safety and health in
the context of the COVID-19 epidemic”.

However, the National Commission wonders what is covered by the “work situation[s] of which [employees] have
reasonable cause to believe that they present a serious and immediate danger to safety and health
in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic", and wonders about the health data that could be transmitted
on these reports. Should an employee communicate to his employer the symptoms
that he presents, the fact that he has recently been in contact with an infected person, or the positive result of a
diagnostic test for SARS-CoV-2 virus infection? Could the employer require the communication of such

193

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD information or the production of the result of a positive or negative test carried out by an employee? Or is the
transmission by the employee of a notice of fitness or inability to return to work issued by a professional
health is considered sufficient, like other sick leave, in accordance with legal obligations
work ?

In the event that this provision should be interpreted as meaning that health data should be
transmitted by employees to employers (result of a diagnostic test, report of symptoms, and/or
or reporting of contacts with an infected person), the National Commission still wonders what
processing employers could then implement regarding these special categories of data
of a personal nature within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, known as “sensitive data”, and under what conditions?

The CNPD would like to point out that under Article 9 of the GDPR, it is in principle prohibited to process so-called data.
“sensitive”, unless one of the exceptions provided for in paragraph (2) of this article is met. One of these
exceptions can be invoked by health professionals and covers the situation in which "the treatment
is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine or occupational medicine, the assessment of the capacity
of the worker's work, of medical diagnoses, of health or social care, or of the management
healthcare or social protection systems and services on the basis of Union law, national law
of a Member State or under a contract concluded with a healthcare professional and subject to the conditions and
guarantees referred to in paragraph 3” (article 9 paragraph (2) letter (h)), while the exception provided for in article
9 paragraph (2) letter (b) can be mobilized by employers in the event that "the processing is necessary for the
purposes of the performance of the obligations and the exercise of the rights specific to the controller or to the person
concerned in terms of labor law, social security and social protection, insofar as this
processing is authorized by Union law, by the law of a Member State or by a collective agreement concluded
under the law of a Member State which provides appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and interests
of the person concerned”.

In addition, the CNPD includes, following the adoption of the law of July 17, 2020 introducing a series of
measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, whether it arises from the missions of the director of health or his
delegated to process the health data of people who are infected or at high risk of being infected in order to follow up
the evolution of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

On the contrary, it would not be up to an employer to replace the health directorate by conducting its
own investigation concerning the health status or contacts of its employees, or by establishing its own
“contact tracing” register, with regard to the principle of data minimization, set out in Article 5 paragraph
(1) letter e) GDPR. However, this would not prevent an employer from being called upon to collaborate and
to transmit any relevant information on a case-by-case basis with the health inspection division of the management of
Health, as part of a contact tracing procedure implemented by the latter.

194

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES The National Commission concludes that, in the absence of additional details in the text of the bill
under notice as to the health data that should be transmitted, and as to the processing of these reports
by the employers, the latter can then only process the opinions of aptitude or inaptitude to resume the
work issued by a health professional, without further details relating to the state of health of the employee, the
the same way they deal with other sick leaves. Collaboration between employers and the division
of the health inspection of the health department could also be considered for the communication
information it deems relevant.

However, there is currently some uncertainty as to this interpretation of the provisions currently
applicable, not allowing employers to precisely determine the data that should be processed in
the framework of taking occupational health and safety measures to combat the spread of the epidemic
of COVID-19, nor for employees to know what data they are required to communicate to their employer. There
CNPD therefore considers that the draft law under opinion does not meet the requirements of clarity, precision and
foreseeability to which a legal text must respond, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of
the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. In order to deal with this legal uncertainty
regarding this interpretation and to ensure compliance of the Luxembourg legal framework with the GDPR and case law
European Union, the CNPD suggests that the authors of the bill clarify the type of personal data that
employees should communicate and the obligations of employers with regard to the processing of this data.

Thus decided in Esch-sur-Alzette on October 30, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

151 In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg,

Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015.

195

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Second opinion on draft law no. 6961 on 1. the creation of the National Authority for
safety and 2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification
documents and security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code.

(Deliberation n°25/2020 of November 18, 2020)

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (EU) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Directive”), to which article 8 of the law of August 1 refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission
for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”), “advises the
Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data ".
 
The subject of this notice is the amendments to bill n°6961 on 1. the creation of the Authority
national security and 2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification
documents and security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code, amendments that the Commission of
Institutions and Constitutional Review (hereinafter “the Commission”) adopted at its meeting of 12
June 2020.
 
On July 16, 2018, the CNPD issued an initial opinion on draft law no. 6961152. Dated
December 17, 2019, it issued an additional opinion.153
 
On July 13, 2016, the CNPD notified a draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the terms of
processing of personal data by the National Security Authority, regulations to be implemented
of the law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and security clearances.154
 
Already in 2013, the CNPD had also issued an opinion on a preliminary draft Grand-Ducal regulation
pursuant to article 23 of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security.
 

152 Deliberation n°444/2018 of 16 July 2018 https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/20171/444-pl6961-ANS.html
153 Deliberation n°60/2019 of 17 December 2019 https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2019/60-autorite-nationale-securite.html
154 Deliberation n°639/2016 of 13 July 2016 https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2016/SRE.html

196

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Article 28 paragraph (6) draft of the amended law of June 15, 2004 on the classification of parts and
security clearances (amendment 9)
 
Proposed section 28(6) provides as follows:
 
“(6) The computer system by which any access is operated is arranged so that:
 
1° the members of the ANS can only consult the files to which they have access by indicating their identifier
personal digital, and
 
2° the information relating to the members of the NSA having carried out the consultation, as well as the information
consulted, the date and time of the consultation are recorded and kept for a period of five years, in order to
that the reason for the consultation can be traced. The personal data consulted must have a
direct link with the facts that prompted the consultation. »
 
The CNPD considers positive the fact that the log files will now be regulated in detail by the text in its
amended version. It also suggests providing that the reason for the consultation must be entered in the system
at the time of the consultation and kept for five years as well.
 
Indeed, the information relating to the agents who carried out the consultation, the information consulted, the date
and the time of the consultation do not necessarily make it possible to trace the reason up to five years after the consultation.
 
Draft article 29bis of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and authorizations
security (amendment 10)
 
The proposed article 29bis provides the following:
 
" Art. 29bis. – Security of processing
 
(1) Any person acting under the authority of the controller who has access to data may not
process them only on instructions from the controller, except under legal obligations.
 
(2) The controller must implement all appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure the protection of the data it processes against accidental or unlawful destruction, accidental loss,
unauthorized alteration, dissemination or access, in particular when the processing involves transmissions of
data in a network, as well as against any other form of unlawful processing.
 

197

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT (3) Depending on the risk of breach of privacy, as well as the state of the art and the costs related to their implementation.
implemented, the measures referred to in subsection (2) must:
 
(a) prevent any unauthorized person from gaining access to the facilities used for data processing
(control at the entrance to the facilities);
 
 
(b) prevent data carriers from being read, copied, modified or moved by any person
unauthorized (media control);
 
(c) prevent the unauthorized introduction of any data into the information system, as well as any taking
of knowledge, any modification or any unauthorized deletion of recorded data (control of the
memory) ;
 
(d) prevent data processing systems from being used by unauthorized persons.
authorized using data transmission facilities (usage control);
 
(e) ensure that, for the use of an automated data processing system, authorized persons
can only access data for which they are responsible (access control);
 
(f) ensure that the identity of third parties to whom data may be transmitted can be verified and ascertained
by transmission facilities (transmission control);
 
(g) guarantee that the identity of persons who have had access to the system can be verified and established a posteriori
information and what data was entered into the system, when and by whom
(input control);
 
(h) to prevent data communication and the transport of data carriers from
can be read, copied, modified or deleted in an unauthorized way (transport control);
 
(i) save the data by making backup copies (availability check).
 
(4) Anyone who carries out processing in violation of the rules relating to confidentiality or security referred to
in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) is punishable by imprisonment from eight days to six months and a fine of 251
to 125,000 euros or only one of these penalties. The court seised may order the cessation of processing
contrary to the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) under pain of a penalty payment, the maximum of which is set by
said jurisdiction. »

198

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The National Commission notes that the text reproduces the terms of Articles 22 and 23 of the repealed law of 2
August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
will supplement the current provisions of articles 22, 24 and 28 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in
matters of national security.
 
On the other hand, the texts mentioned above are not fixed by the exact retention periods for the files.
provided therein. The CNPD suggests specifying in the bill a retention period of 5 years
with regard to the log files relating to the consultations of the data in the processing systems
ANS data. It should be noted that the statute of limitations for offenses (and in particular criminal offenses
provided for by the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, by article 29 bis
draft paragraph (4) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and authorizations
of security or by articles 458 as well as 509-1 and following of the Penal Code,) is 5 years.
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on November 18, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President
 

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

199

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the terms and conditions for the registration of
establishments of food business operators.

(Deliberation n°27/2020 of December 2, 2020)

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter c) of regulation n°2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter referred to as the “GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime,
the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.
 
By letter dated August 12, 2020, the Minister of Consumer Protection invited the
National Commission to decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the registration procedures
establishments of food business operators (hereinafter referred to as the “draft Grand-Ducal regulation”).
 
It appears from the explanatory memorandum that according to European regulations, any food business operator
must register with the competent authorities each of the establishments for which it is responsible and which
intervenes in the food chain.
 
At the national level, article 6 of the law of July 28, 2018 establishing a system of control and sanction
relating to foodstuffs relates to this registration by providing that “(…) any operator of the sector
food notifies the [government commissioner for quality, fraud and food safety], for the purposes
of registration, each of the establishments for which it is responsible and which implement one of the steps
production, processing and distribution of foodstuffs. To this end, the commissioner's office is
authorized to use a file, and the data entered therein will be transmitted to the authorities responsible for the control
foodstuffs. »
 
Paragraph 2 of the said article continues that “[a] Grand-Ducal regulation specifies the procedures as well as the
procedures for registering the establishments referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. »

The draft Grand-Ducal regulation is part of the implementation of the aforementioned article 6, even if, in
facts, a computerized notification system has been operational since 2016.

200

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES The National Commission will limit its observations to the provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation without
examine in more detail the European and national legislation on the basis of which the draft regulation
ducal was taken.
 
Article 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation lists the information that food business operators
must notify the Government Commissioner for Food Quality, Fraud and Safety, namely (i)
the commercial sign of the establishment, (ii) the physical address where the activities take place, (iii) the contact details of
contact and address of the operator, (iv) activities related to the stages of production, processing and
the distribution of foodstuffs and (v) when the operator is a legal person, the natural person
designated as recipient of official control reports and as contact person in the event of incidents related to
foodstuffs on behalf of this legal entity.
 
Based on the information available to it, the National Commission considers that the categories of data
to be notified are adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary with regard to the purposes for
which they are processed, namely the control of food business operators156, so that the principle
minimization of data set out in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR is complied with.
 
Article 5 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that the government commissioner for quality, fraud
and Food Safety shall keep a register of the establishments containing the data notified in accordance with
article 3 and that the data, regularly updated, are kept for a maximum period of 5
years after the end of activities related to the stages of production, processing and distribution of
foodstuffs.
 
The National Commission considers that, given the fact that the law of 28 July 2018 establishing a system of control
and sanctions relating to foodstuffs provides for correctional penalties prescribed by 5 years,
limiting the retention of data to a maximum of 5 years is in accordance with the principle of
limitation of retention of personal data provided for in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter e) of the GDPR.
 
 
With regard to the term "register" used in Article 5 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the Commission
national considers that it would be preferable to use the same term as that already used in article 6 of the law
cited above of July 28, 2018, namely “file”. Not only would this way of proceeding highlight the fact
that it is indeed the same file, but this term also has the advantage of being defined by the GDPR157.
 
Finally, the National Commission wonders whether there might not be a possible inconsistency between the law of
28 July 2018 establishing a control and sanction system relating to foodstuffs and the draft
grand-ducal regulations. Indeed, article 6 of the aforementioned law states that the data entered in the file will be

156 Even if the purpose of the processing emerges from reading the various normative texts, it could be useful to recall it in Article 1 of the draft regulation

grand-ducal.

157 Article 4(6) GDPR.

201

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD transmitted to the administrations responsible for food control while the draft regulation
Grand Ducal, while remaining silent on this subject in the body of the text, indicates in his explanatory memorandum that "in order
in particular to avoid duplication and to enhance the effectiveness of official controls, it is essential
to have a centralized register of establishments in the food chain”.
 
According to the understanding of the CNPD, the aforementioned law of July 28, 2018 does not allow the administrations responsible for
control of foodstuffs to directly access said file insofar as the data entered therein
sent to them by the government commission for quality, fraud and food safety. In
evoking a "centralized register", the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation nevertheless seem to want to create
a file directly accessible to the authorities responsible for controlling foodstuffs.
 
For all intents and purposes, the National Commission takes the liberty of pointing out that access to external files containing
personal data and the transmission of such data to third parties constitutes interference with
privacy and therefore, by virtue of Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, a matter reserved for the law
formal. In this case, most of the normative framework must appear in the law158. In case of direct access, the law should
in particular list the administrations that can access the file in question, as well as the purposes of this
access.
 
 Thus decided in Belvaux on December 2, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

158 See in particular in this sense the opinion 6975/5 of the Council of State relating to the bill amending the law of July 24, 2014 concerning financial assistance from the State

for graduate studies.

202

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Opinion relating to bill no. 7639 amending the law of 23 December 2016 concerning the
collection, entry and control of aid files relating to housing and the development project
grand-ducal regulation repealing the grand-ducal regulation of 23 December 2016 setting
the measures for implementing the law of 23 December 2016 concerning the collection, seizure
and control of housing assistance files.

(Deliberation n°28/2020 of December 2, 2020)

In accordance with article 57, paragraph (1), letter (c) of regulation n°2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated July 21, 2020, the Minister of Housing invited the National Commission to
rule on the draft law amending the law of 23 December 2016 concerning the collection, seizure and control
housing aid files (hereinafter the “draft law”) and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 December 2016 setting the implementing measures for the law of 23 December
2016 concerning the collection, entry and control of housing aid files (hereinafter the “project
Grand-Ducal regulation”).

As a preliminary remark, it should be noted that Article 1, last paragraph, of the law of 23 December 2016
concerning the collection, entry and control of housing aid files (hereinafter the “Law of 23
December 2016”) continues to refer to the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of persons with regard to
of the processing of personal data. However, this law was repealed by the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime
data. This reference should therefore be deleted and henceforth reference should be made to the legislation currently
in force.

I. Repeal of the Grand-Ducal Regulation

The authors of the bill propose to repeal the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 December 2016 setting the
implementing measures for the law of 23 December 2016 and inserting these provisions directly into the law.

203

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Thus, the provisions of the aforementioned Grand-Ducal regulation would now be found in Articles 4, paragraph (5),
and 5, paragraph (1), paragraph 2, of the law of December 23, 2016, as amended by the draft law.

The CNPD welcomes such a modification as it had suggested in its opinion of 25 November 2016 relating to the
bill n°7054.

However, given the other amendments that the authors of the bill intend to make to the law of 23 December
2016, the National Commission is wondering whether it is still appropriate to include in the law the list of
personal data that may be exchanged between state authorities. The CNPD will come back to this below at the point
III. of this notice.

II. The change in terminology

The authors of the bill indicate in the explanatory memorandum that they want to take the opportunity "to clarify the text
in some places, which now provides for more appropriate terminology". Explanations in this regard
however, are not provided in the explanatory memorandum or in the commentary to the articles.
 
However, the National Commission wonders whether the terms "personal data" and "files",
would not be more appropriate than the terms "information" or "information", used henceforth
throughout the bill, for reasons of consistency with the GDPR which defines these concepts in its
Article 4, paragraphs (1) and (6). The use of notions defined by the GDPR would also allow a better
understanding of the device under review.

Indeed, by way of example, the initial version of paragraph (3) of Article 4, which used the term
"file", allowed a better understanding of the device, while the new terminology used,
namely "access to the information files of the Minister having the Environment in his attributions" and "access
to the information files of the Minister having Housing in his attributions", is likely to bring to
confusion.

Furthermore, the authors of the bill specify in Article 4, paragraph (4), as amended by the bill
law, that applicants and recipients of housing assistance must give their “explicit” consent.
The National Commission wonders what the authors mean when they wish to specify the nature
“explicit” consent.

In any case, it should be remembered that in terms of data protection, consent is defined
by Article 4, paragraph (11), of the GDPR (which implies that it must be “free, specific, informed and unambiguous”)
and that its collection must be carried out in accordance with the legal provisions of Article 7 of the GDPR. Therefore, the

204

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES consent of applicants for and beneficiaries of housing aid must be given in accordance with the
legal provisions of the GDPR, so that the explicit term can be considered superfluous.

III. Creating new files

According to the text currently in force, the Minister having Housing in his attributions and the Minister having
the Environment in its attributions have access to external files for the purposes detailed in the text
cited above, while the bill under opinion provides in Article 4, paragraphs (1) and (2), that the ministers are
communicate by the state authorities, listed in the aforementioned paragraphs, certain data of a
personnel, "necessary information" or "relevant information".

Are we to understand that, unlike the current system providing for consultation of external files by the
Minister having Housing in his attributions and by the Minister having the Environment in his attributions, these
latter are now recipients of data from such files? Are the ministers therefore led to
maintain files containing such data?

If this were to be the case, the CNPD would like to reiterate its observations made in its opinion of 25 November 2016 relating to
to bill no. 7054159 and recalls that keeping a file of personal data collected and processed
by a state authority must have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6(3) GDPR.

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a
legal obligation or the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority, of which
is vested with the controller. In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the processing of
data must specifically be defined either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State
to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should "[...] belong to Union law or to the law
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing […]”.

Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies that this legislative measure should be clear and precise and its
application should be foreseeable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of
the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights.

159 The CNPD noted in particular in its opinion of 25 November 2016 relating to bill no. 7054 that “[e]n the absence of the consent of the person
concerned that the competent ministers check directly in the files held by other administrations the information necessary for the investigation
applications for housing aid, the persons concerned have in principle an alternative consisting in providing supporting documents themselves
containing information from said files and documenting their administrative situation. This results in a need to frame beyond the hypothesis of a
prior consent of the persons concerned, the cases where the ministers concerned would be made recipients of data from databases
administrative managed by other administrations. The CNPD considers it essential that the normative framework on this point be included in the law”

160 In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legistics in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg,

Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619.

205

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Pursuant to the aforementioned provisions, these legal bases should establish specific provisions aimed at
to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the
data may be communicated and for what purposes, the data retention periods or even
processing operations and procedures.

Thus, for the lawfulness of processing in the public sector to be ensured, it is necessary to have a normative text.
national or supranational which may lead an administration or a service to have to process data for
fulfill its missions. While a text should not specifically prescribe data processing, “the
purpose of the processing must however be precise, insofar as the text leading the administration to deal with
data must allow citizens to deduce the nature of the data and the purposes for which they are
used”162. The National Commission therefore considers it essential, in the event that the above-mentioned ministers,
keep one or more files, as controllers, that this bill provides for the
legal provisions creating such files. These must contain the elements mentioned above.

Insofar as the provisions of article 3 paragraph 2 of the law of December 23, 2016 concerning the collection,
the entry and control of aid files relating to housing163 already seem to provide for the keeping of a
file by the Minister having Housing in his attributions, these should be completed while they are
are worded too vaguely. The said provisions should in particular specify that the aforementioned minister
will have the quality of data controller and that the file will contain, in addition to the data currently covered by
Article 3 of the aforementioned law, the data received by the said Minister by the administrations referred to in Article 4, such as
modified by the bill.

Furthermore, similar provisions concerning the keeping of a file by the Minister responsible for the Environment in
its attributions should also be inserted in the aforementioned article 3 whereas this is not currently specified
by the text under notice.

In any case, if the will of the authors of the bill is to provide for the communication of data to
aforementioned Ministers by the administrations referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the aforementioned Article 4, then this should
clearly be reflected throughout the bill.

Thus, the terminology used in Article 4, paragraph (4), and in Article
5, subsection (1), as amended by the bill, while these sections notably continue to make
respectively reference to “access to information in the national register and the general register” and to
“access by ministers to information from the files listed in article 4 (…)”.

IV. The exchange of data between the Minister having Housing in his attributions and the Minister having

the Environment in its attributions

161 M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture

Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619.

162 M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture

Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619.

163 Article 3 paragraph 2 of the law of 23 December 2016 concerning the collection, entry and control of housing aid files provides that: “After the
collection and input of housing aid applications and related documents, personal data is transferred to storage media.
secure data to which the agent of the Minister having Housing in his attributions having carried out the collection and seizure does not have access”.

206

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES Article 4, paragraph (3), as amended by the bill, maintains an exchange of data between the Minister
having Housing in his attributions and the Minister having the Environment in his attributions through a
respective access to their files.

However, the categories of data to which this exchange relates are not specified so that the
National Commission is not in a position to comment on the necessary and proportionate nature of the exchange
of data as referred to in paragraph (3) above.

It would therefore be appropriate for the bill to indicate at least the categories of data that would be exchanged
between the said ministers.

In addition, insofar as the draft law provides for specific communication of data from files
administrative duties for each of the aforementioned ministers, the attention of the authors of the bill should be drawn to the
fact that this exchange of data should not allow ministers to indirectly obtain data from
personal character from the files of state authorities to which they do not have access under the draft
law under notice.

V. The Communication of “Information” by Other Authorities

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill under opinion intends to provide in the law of December 23, 2016 "in what
extent and under what conditions the Ministry of Housing may obtain the communication of information
from the Administration of direct contributions respectively from the Fund for the future of children,
which are not yet among the authorities listed in article 4 of the said law of 2016 (…)”.

It should be noted that Article 4, paragraph (1), point 1°, as amended by the draft law, lists the
personal data that may be transmitted by the Administration of direct contributions to the minister having the
Housing in its attributions.

However, such details are not provided for the data that would be transmitted to the minister having the
Housing in his attributions and to the Minister having the Environment in his attributions under paragraphs
(1), point 2° to 4° and (2) of Article 4, as amended by the bill.

However, article 4, paragraph (5), as resulting from the draft law, which is taken from article 1 of the regulation
of 23 December 2016 setting the implementing measures for the law of 23 December 2016, lists the
categories of personal data that can be communicated “from the files listed in
paragraphs 1 and 2” to the aforementioned ministers, without specifying which authorities transmit which data to which
minister.

207

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD The National Commission therefore wonders how the specific provisions of Article 4 are structured,
paragraph (1), point 1° with the general ones of article 4, paragraph (5).

Thus, for the sake of consistency of the internal structure of Article 4, as amended by the bill, it would be
judicious that the authors of the bill specify for each communication of data referred to in paragraphs
(1) and (2) of the aforementioned article which are the categories which could be transmitted to the ministers and to delete
consequently paragraph (5) of Article 4, the provisions of which would become superfluous.

Finally, would it not be more relevant to provide that the identification data of the persons concerned who
would be transmitted to the ministers so that they can verify its authenticity and accuracy would only be communicated
by the administration that maintains the national register within the meaning of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification
natural persons, rather than providing for this data to be communicated by the Administration of
direct contributions?

Thus decided in Belvaux on December 2, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

208

5ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPDANNEXES Opinion on the draft law on the recognition of qualifications
professionals in the field of inland navigation and amending the
amended law of 28 July 1973 creating a navigation service.

(Deliberation n°29/2020 of December 17, 2020)

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter c) of regulation n°2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated August 18, 2020, the Minister of Mobility and Public Works invited the
National Commission to decide on the draft law on the recognition of qualifications
professionals in the field of inland navigation and amending the amended law of 28 July
1973 establishing a navigation service (hereinafter the "draft law").

The purpose of the draft law is in particular to transpose into national law Directive (EU) 2017/2397 of the European Parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in
the field of inland navigation and repealing Council Directives 91/672/EEC and 96/50/EC (hereinafter the
“directive”). The directive aims to establish a common framework for the recognition of qualifications
minimum professional requirements in the field of inland navigation.

The Directive is supplemented by Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2020/12 of 2 August 2019 as regards
concerns the standards relating to skills and the corresponding knowledge and skills, to the tests
practices, approval of simulators and medical fitness, by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/182 of the
Commission of 14 January 2020 on models relating to professional qualifications in the field of
inland navigation and by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/473 of 20 January 2020 regarding
concerning the standards applicable to databases relating to Union qualification certificates,
service books and logbooks.

209

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Insofar as the draft bill under opinion transposes the directive into national law, the National Commission
will limit its comments to the legal provisions concerning the concrete implementation of this directive in
Luxemburg.

This notice will deal with issues relating to aspects of the protection of personal data
raised by the articles of Chapters 3 and 4 of the draft law.

I. On the data processing carried out by the Minister

It emerges from the reading of the draft law that the minister having transport in his attributions (hereafter
the “Minister”) will collect and process data (i) upon issuance, renewal and suspension,
respectively the withdrawal of Union qualification certificates and specific authorisations164, (ii) when
access to state files165 and (iii) when keeping registers as referred to in Article 20 of the preliminary draft
of law.

Before examining in more detail the processing carried out on these occasions (points B to D), the National Commission
makes some general observations (point A below).

A. General Considerations

First of all, it should be noted that article 19 entitled “Protection of personal data” indicates
in particular that the GDPR applies to the processing of personal data provided for by law166, specifies
the purposes for which the data will be processed167, refers to the rights of data subjects168 and
specifies that the Minister has the status of data controller169.

1. On the reference to the GDPR (Article 19 paragraphs (1) and (3) of the draft law)

Although paragraph (1) of Article 19 is a literal repetition of paragraph (1) of Article 24 of the Directive,
the CNPD wonders whether it is necessary, or even appropriate, to provide that the GDPR applies to the processing of
personal data provided for by the draft law while the GDPR is, as a regulation
European, compulsory in all its elements and directly applicable in Luxembourg.

In addition, paragraph (3) of Article 19 of the draft law reproduces the wording of Article 24 paragraph (4)
of the directive by stipulating that the persons whose data are processed are informed in advance of this
processing and that they have the right to access their personal data and to have a copy of this data,
on request, at any time.

164 Articles 8 et seq.
165 Article 19 paragraph (5).
166 Section 19 paragraph (1).
167 Article 19 paragraph (2).
168 Section 19 paragraph (3).
169 Section 19 paragraph (4).

210

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES The CNPD wonders whether this provision would not be superfluous compared to the provisions that are already
provided for by the GDPR with regard to the right to information of data subjects170 as well as the right
access by data subjects171.

For all practical purposes, the National Commission takes the liberty of drawing the attention of the authors of the preliminary draft law to
the problem related to the fact of partially or fully reproducing the text of a European regulation in
the internal legal order. Indeed, the Council of State regularly recalls in its opinions the case law of the Court
of Justice of the European Union according to which Member States must not impede the direct applicability of
regulations nor conceal their European nature172.

2. On the purposes of the processing (Article 19 paragraph (2) of the draft law)

The authors of the draft law are to be congratulated on the fact that they have specified the purposes of the processing of
personal data.

However, and although these provisions are a repetition of the wording of Article 24 paragraph (3) of the Directive,
the National Commission regrets that these are not more detailed, in particular according to the different
processing carried out by the Minister. This particularly applies to access by the Minister to data from
files held by other state administrations.

The CNPD will return to this point later.

3. On the designation of the controller

Finally, with regard to article 19 paragraph (4), which is an addition to the directive, the CNPD
asks for the rationale for this provision when it is already apparent from Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 18, 19,
20, 21 and 23 of the draft law that the Minister has the quality of data controller for the processing
of personal data arising from said articles.

In addition, the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data to which reference is made has been repealed by the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime
data. Reference should therefore be made to the legislation currently in force, namely Article 4(7)
of the GDPR.

B. On the processing implemented in the context of the issue, renewal, suspension

and the withdrawal of Union qualification certificates and specific authorizations

170 Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR.
171 Article 15 GDPR.
172 See par. ex. the opinion of the Council of State of July 17, 2020 on draft law no. 7537 relating to certain methods of application and the sanction of the regulation (EU)
No. 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 20, 2019 promoting fairness and transparency for business users of services
online intermediation

211

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD Pursuant to articles 8 and following of the draft law, the CNPD understands that the Minister collects data from
personal character in the context of the issue, renewal, suspension and withdrawal of certificates
Union qualification certificates and specific authorisations.

1. On the condition of good repute (Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law)

Even if article 8 of the draft law constitutes a quasi-faithful reproduction of article 11 of the directive, there are
instead of noting that an additional condition has been provided for in paragraph (1) letter d). In fact, the draft
of law indicates that applicants must provide the Minister with “supporting documents” establishing in a manner
satisfactory that they meet the criteria of good repute.

Thus, the applicant, in order to establish his good repute, must provide a “recent extract from the criminal record or a
equivalent document from the place of habitual residence that does not indicate a criminal conviction in force
of res judicata pronouncing a prison sentence of at least six months for theft, fraud, abuse of
confidence, willful attack on the integrity of the person, sexual assault or violation of the legislation on
narcotics or driving while intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol”. However, this condition is not a condition
required by the directive.

The authors of the draft bill specify that the provision under notice was added “because of the approach
equivalent in the Rhine diet and in order to maintain a high level of quality". However, the Rhine diet
applicable to navigation personnel on the Rhine, to which the authors of the draft law refer173, is
separate regime from the Directive and is not governed by it. Therefore, the CNPD wonders whether it is relevant to
provide for this additional condition provided by an international organization. By adding such a condition,
wouldn't the draft law under opinion result in an incorrect transposition of the directive?

Furthermore, the National Commission is not in a position to assess, based on the comments of the authors of
the aforementioned draft law, if the collection of such data complies with the principle of data minimization provided for
in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR. The authors of the draft bill should, indeed, explain the
reasons why they believe that the collection of such data is adequate, relevant and limited to this
which is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.

Furthermore, the authors of the draft bill should be made aware of the fact that in the legal order
Luxembourg, the communication of information relating to court decisions is done by issuing
extracts from criminal records in accordance with the amended law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records
(hereinafter the "Law of March 29, 2013"). This law creates several bulletins with a breakdown
entries on the respective bulletins. The National Commission therefore recommends specifying
in the draft bill which bulletin the applicants will have to provide to the Minister174. Furthermore, it would be useful to

173 Regulations relating to navigation personnel on the Rhine adopted by the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine.
174 In view of the convictions listed in Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, the CNPD considers that only bulletins Nos 2 and 3 are likely to

to be targeted by the authors of the draft law.

212

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES specify what is meant by a “recent” extract from the criminal record, by providing for example that the extract
must be less than 1 month old.

In the event that bulletin No. 2 is covered by Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, it should be noted
that this bulletin is not issued to the person concerned but, under certain conditions, to the authorities
listed in Article 8 of the Law of March 29, 2013, respectively in Article 1 of the Grand-
of 23 July 2016 fixing the list of administrations and legal persons governed by public law that may
request a bulletin N°2 or N°3 of the criminal record with the written or electronic agreement of the person concerned
(hereinafter the “Grand-ducal regulation of 23 July 2016”).

Thus, it follows from Article 1, point 1) of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 July 2016 that the "Minister
having Transport in its attributions" can obtain a copy of a bulletin N°2 "for the instruction of any
request for approval, license or permit addressed to a service of its competence”. The Commission
national authority wonders whether the issue of Union qualification certificates could be covered by this
arrangement.

With regard to bulletin N°3, this can be delivered to the data subject himself. Article 8-1 of the
law of March 29, 2013 also provides for the possibility of delivering this bulletin to third parties, including in particular
the administrations and legal persons governed by public law listed by the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July
2016. It should be noted that the minister in charge of transport is not among the authorities
public listed therein.

With regard to the wording of Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, the National Commission
understands that it is the applicant's responsibility to provide the Minister with an extract from the criminal record and that the draft
of law does not provide for the possibility for the Minister to be issued directly, under the conditions provided for by
the law of 29 March 2013 and the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016, the bulletin in question.

In view of the foregoing, it would be appropriate for clarifications as to the articulation of the provisions of the law of
March 29, 2013 and the Grand-Ducal Regulation of July 23, 2016, on the one hand, with Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d)
of the draft bill, on the other hand, be made by the authors of the draft bill.

For all intents and purposes, it should be noted that bill no. 7691, tabled on November 2, 2020, aims
to specify the various “good repute” procedures currently provided for in several texts of
law and which come under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice175. The provisions of the draft law relating to
to good repute would therefore not be subject to the aforementioned draft. However and if such
should not be the case, shouldn’t Bill 7691 be adapted in order to incorporate the provisions relating to
good repute that appear in the draft bill under opinion?

175 Bill amending 1° the Code of Criminal Procedure 2° the New Code of Civil Procedure 3° the law of 7 July 1971 on criminal matters
and administrative, institution of sworn experts, translators and interpreters and supplementing the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of experts,
translators and interpreters 4° of the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of notaries 5° of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance
and sports betting 6° of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization 7° of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on the organization of courts
of the administrative order 8° of the law of December 30, 1981 on compensation in the event of ineffective preventive detention 9° of the amended law of March 15, 1983
on weapons and ammunition 10° of the amended law of 2 March 1984 relating to the compensation of certain victims of bodily injury resulting from an offense
and the repression of fraudulent insolvency 11° of the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers 12° of the law of
January 31, 1998 approving adoption services and defining their obligations 13° of the law of May 6, 1999 on penal mediation
and amending various provisions a) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization, b) of the social insurance code 14° of the
law of 12 November 2002 relating to private security and surveillance activities 15° of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés.

213

2020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT 2. On medical fitness (article 8 paragraph (1) letter c))

It should be recalled that the personal data which would be collected by the Minister in order to certify that a
candidate has the required medical skills are to be qualified as “sensitive” data within the meaning of
GDPR Article 9. These are indeed related to the health of the candidates. The processing of such data
therefore require specific protection and are subject to stricter requirements.

In order to establish that applicants meet the proficiency standards, they must issue a certificate
on the basis of the procedure referred to in Article 18 of the draft law.

Article 18 provides in particular that applicants “demonstrate their medical fitness by presenting to the Minister
a valid medical certificate issued by a doctor recognized by the Minister, on the basis of an examination confirming
medical fitness”. The National Commission therefore understands that the Minister will only be sent a
certificate confirming or not the medical fitness of the applicant.

In addition, the medical fitness standards specifying the requirements relating to medical fitness, in particular
with regard to the tests that doctors must carry out are detailed in Annex III of the directive as well as
than in Annex IV of Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2020/12 of 2 August 2019 supplementing the Directive.

This article is a faithful transposition of article 23 of the directive and does not call for comments from
the CNPD.

3. On the verification of the authenticity and validity of documents

It appears from Articles 8 and 9 of the draft law that the Minister “verifies the authenticity and validity of the documents
provided by applicants. Article 23 paragraph (1) of the draft law further provides that “[t]he Minister
takes appropriate measures to prevent fraud and other illegal practices regarding certificates of
the Union, the service books, the logbooks, the medical certificates and the registers provided for by this law”.

The National Commission understands that such measures aim to prevent fraud and other illegal practices.
Nevertheless, in the absence of precision in the commentary of the articles, she wonders by what means the
Minister intends to verify the authenticity and validity of the documents. Verification of authenticity and validity
records is done through access to state files, such as those listed in subsection (5)
of article 19 of the draft law? If so, this should be clearly stated in the draft law.

If access to other state files than those listed in the aforementioned article should be provided, then this should be
clearly determined and framed by the draft law.

214

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES 4. On Article 21 entitled “Monitoring”

Article 21 of the draft law provides for the creation of a monitoring system, particularly with regard to the
"issue and update of Union qualification certificates, service records and logbooks".
This article is a quasi-literal reworking of Article 27 of the Directive.

The National Commission understands that this monitoring system is referred to in Article 11 paragraph (1) of the
draft law which provides that “[w]here there are elements to suggest that the requirements relating to the certificates
qualifications or specific authorizations are no longer satisfied, the Minister when he issued the certificate or
the specific authorization carries out all the necessary assessments and, if necessary, withdraws these certificates or this
specific authorization.

Subsection (2) of the aforementioned article further provides that “[t]he Minister may temporarily suspend a certificate
qualification of the Union, when he considers that this suspension is necessary for safety reasons
or public order".

Thus, if it emerges from the provisions mentioned above that the Minister seems to operate a follow-up of the certificates of
qualification or specific authorisations, the terms of such monitoring are however not specified in the preliminary
law Project.

However, in such a context, the CNPD wonders what information would be transmitted if
appropriate to the Minister. In addition, is the Minister directly provided with data of a personal nature
personnel by the Grand-Ducal Police or the Public Ministry when a suspension of a Union certificate “is
necessary for reasons of security or public order”?

Therefore, it would be appropriate to specify the methods of such monitoring, and more particularly which categories of
personal data would be communicated, if necessary, to the Minister and by which administrations.

C. On access to the files referred to in Article 19 paragraph (5) of the draft law

Article 19 paragraph (5) of the draft law provides that the Minister may access:

• national register of legal persons created by the law of March 30, 1979 organizing digital identification

natural and legal persons (hereinafter the “national register of legal persons”);

• national register of natural persons created by the law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of persons

physical (hereinafter the “RNPP”);

• file operated by the minister responsible for registration and domains; And

215

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD • register of companies carrying out an activity referred to in the amended law of 2 September 2011 regulating
access to the professions of craftsman, trader, industrialist as well as certain liberal professions (hereinafter
the “register of companies”).

It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not transpose an article of the directive and have been
added by the authors of the draft law in order “to make the provisions of the law operational”. There
CNPD welcomes when the latter specify for each of the aforementioned files what are the categories
of data that may be transmitted to the Minister and for what purposes. However, as explained below,
some clarifications should be made.

In addition, it should be recalled that access to said files should not allow the Minister to obtain in any way
indirect personal data from other files of state authorities for which he has not
access under draft legislation under notice. If so, such communication of data between
ministries or administrations should be specified in the draft bill under opinion.

1. On the purposes

As a preliminary remark, the CNPD assumes that a clerical error has crept in at the beginning of Article 19
paragraph (5) of the draft bill in that it refers to paragraph (1) and not to paragraph (2) of
section 19.

The authors of the draft bill specify that the files can be consulted for “the implementation, the
control of the application and evaluation of this law” and the “exchange of information between the authorities having
access to the database referred to in Article 20 and the European Commission”. However, the purposes are not
written with sufficient precision so that the CNPD is unable to assess whether the data
transmitted are, in accordance with the principle of minimization of data enshrined in Article 5 paragraph (1)
letter c) of the GDPR, which are actually necessary for the fulfillment of said purposes.

The National Commission wonders whether this access would not instead allow the Minister to verify the authenticity
supporting documents provided on the basis of articles 8 and following of the draft law176. Access to these files
is it, moreover, necessary in order to prevent fraud or other illegal practices as referred to in Article 23
of the draft law?

Clarifications on this subject should be provided.

2. On the categories of personal data

176 See the developments above in point I. A. 3. of this opinion.

216

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES First of all, it should be noted that the Minister is provided with personal data as well as
as data relating to legal persons. In this regard, it should be noted that recital 14 of the
GDPR states that the GDPR “(…) does not cover the processing of personal data relating to
legal persons, and in particular companies with legal personality, including the name,
legal form and contact details of the legal person”.However, information relating to persons
legal entities may, where appropriate, relate to natural persons (for example: if they include the name of the
manager of the company) and must therefore be considered as personal data.

Thus, the GDPR will only apply to personal data that would be communicated to the Minister.

a) On access to the national register of legal persons:

Article 19, paragraph (5) letter a) provides that the Minister may access data from the national register
legal persons created by the amended law of March 30, 1979 organizing the digital identification of
natural and legal persons in order to obtain the identification information of river transport companies,
including in particular the “national identification number” and the “address”.

According to the understanding of the CNPD, the national register of legal persons does not in principle contain
personal data so that the GDPR does not apply. However, in order to avoid any
confusion, it would be desirable for the authors of the bill to use the terms as they are used by law
cited above of March 30, 1979. If the National Commission is not mistaken, the correct terminology is “number
identity” and “head office”.

b) On access to the RNPP:

Pursuant to Article 19 paragraph (5) letter b), the Minister has access to the national register of natural persons
“in order to obtain the identifying information of the deck crew member (…)” such as names and
first name, national identification number, nationality and country of residence.

It should be recalled that access to the RNPP by the Minister should also be carried out in accordance with the procedure
provided for by article 10 of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons as well as
Articles 5 to 7 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 28 November 2013 setting the terms of application of the aforementioned law.

c) On access to the file providing information on boats registered in Luxembourg

The draft bill provides that the minister can access data from the file used by the minister having
registration and domains in its attributions providing information on boats registered in Luxembourg.

217

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD More specifically, the Minister can access the "data necessary to identify the buildings, owner,
holder, address, deadlines”.

The National Commission considers that the draft law should refer to the law establishing the file in
question. In the absence of this indication, it is not able to decide on access to said file.

d) On access to the business register

The CNPD understands that this is the register referred to in Article 32 paragraph (1) of the amended law of 2 September
2011 regulating access to the professions of craftsman, merchant, industrialist as well as certain professions
Liberals and that the minister will only be granted limited access to the registry. The National Commission
therefore welcomes the fact that the authors of the draft law only provide for limited access to this register.

However, with regard to information relating to the financial capacity of the transport company
fluvial, which categories of personal data would, if necessary, be transmitted to the Minister?
Clarifications on this subject deserve to be provided by the authors of the draft law. Moreover, and in order
To avoid confusion, it should also be clarified what is covered by the term “addresses”. Is it the
registered office of the river transport company or the address of its legal representatives?

D. On the registers kept by the Minister

Article 20 of the draft law transposes Article 25 of the directive and aims in particular to provide for the
creation of registers to be kept by the Minister. Indeed, paragraph (1) of the said article provides that the Minister
keep records “for Union qualification certificates, service records and logbooks issued under
its authority (…) and, where applicable, for documents recognized under Article 7, paragraph 2, which have been
issued, renewed, suspended or withdrawn, which have been declared lost, stolen or destroyed, or which have expired (…)”.

The CNPD understands from reading the aforementioned paragraph that the Minister keeps a register for certificates of
Union qualification, another register for service records and a third register for logbooks.
The paragraph further lists the categories of data that would be collected by the Minister for each of the
registers.

However, the National Commission wonders whether these registers will not constitute one and the same processing
of data relating to this register, while the authors of the draft law mention in their comments
“the keeping of the national register” and refer in the body of the text on several occasions to the “register referred to in Article
20, paragraph 1”177. Thus, it is recommended to clarify in the draft law whether it is a single register
or, on the other hand, of several separate data processing operations or registers kept by the Minister.

177 See in particular Articles 19, paragraph (6) and 20, paragraph (3) of the draft law.

218

52020 CNPD ANNUAL REPORTANNEXES 1. Categories of personal data

Article 20 paragraph (1) of the draft law lists the personal data that the registers
held by the Minister contain. From this point of view, this article, which is a faithful transposition of article 25
paragraph (1) of the directive, does not raise any comments from the CNPD.

It should however be noted that in addition to the data listed in paragraph (1) of the aforementioned Article 20, the CNPD
understands that data from the files listed in paragraph (5) of Article 19 will be kept in
these registers. Indeed, article 19 paragraph (6) provides that “the consultation and reception of the data of these
databases can be done automatically in the register referred to in Article 20, paragraph 1”.

It should also be noted that the Minister will also be required to collect and process data of a
personnel under the procedure for issuing Union qualification certificates and authorizations
covered by Articles 8 and 9. The CNPD understands that only the data appearing on the certificates
qualification of the Union will be contained in the registers and not the supporting documents provided by the
applicants for certificates in support of their application.

In any case, if the registers kept by the Minister were to contain other data than those listed
in Article 20 paragraph (1), then this should be clearly reflected in the draft law.

2. On the security measures governing access to the registers

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1) letter f) of the GDPR, personal data must be
“processed in a way that ensures appropriate security of personal data, including the protection
against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage,
using appropriate technical or organizational measures (integrity and confidentiality)”.

In addition, Article 32 of the GDPR provides that “the controller and the processor shall implement the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk”.
Such measures must be implemented in order to avoid in particular unauthorized access to data or
data leaks.

Thus, the National Commission is pleased that the authors of the preliminary draft law have specified the procedures for access
to the registers kept by the Minister, even though they have provided for traceability of access to the said registers.

Furthermore, the last sentence of Article 19 paragraph (4) of the draft law provides that “[o]nly are
authorized to have access to the data the persons who need it in the exercise of their function and their

219

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD professional tasks”. According to the understanding of the CNPD, this provision applies to all
processing provided for by the draft law, therefore also access to the registers referred to in Article 20 paragraph
(1).

3. On the retention period of personal data

According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, personal data must not be stored
longer than necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are collected and processed.

Paragraph 1 of paragraph (3) of Article 20 of the draft law faithfully transposes Article 25
paragraph (3) of the directive. Paragraph 2 of paragraph (3) of Article 20 of the draft law is an addition by
relation to the directive. This paragraph gives details as to the date of elimination of certain categories of
data.

Thus, it is provided that "the data relating to a boat are deleted from the register referred to in paragraph 1 when
this building is dismantled" and that "the data relating to a service book or a certificate of qualification are
deleted from the register referred to in paragraph 1 when the data subject is deceased”.

The CNPD wonders whether such a retention period for personal data, in particular until
death of the data subject, is proportionate and necessary. Indeed, is it necessary to keep until
death of a person the data concerning him and appearing on the qualification certificate if he does not have
no longer have a qualification certificate or no longer meets the conditions required by the draft law?

In the absence of details from the authors of the draft bill as to the criteria that would justify such a duration,
the National Commission is not in a position to assess whether, in this case, the principle of retention period
data limitation is observed regarding the collection of this data.

In addition, it should be clarified that a retention period should also be determined for each
category of personal data that would be collected by the Minister within the framework of the preliminary draft
law under notice. For example, the data collected during the procedure for issuing certificates of
qualification of the Union will have to be deleted or anonymized as soon as their conservation is no longer necessary
for the achievement of the purposes for which they are collected and processed.

Therefore, even if the retention period does not necessarily have to be defined in the draft law, it does
it should at least specify the criteria that would be taken into account in order to determine the duration of
proportionate retention for each category of personal data that would be collected by the
minister.

220

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES II. On the exchange of personal data

Article 23 paragraph (2) provides in particular that “[t]he Minister exchanges relevant information with
the competent authorities of the other Member States concerning the certification of persons involved in
operation of a vessel, including information relating to the suspension and withdrawal of certificates”.

It should be recalled that personal data can, in principle, circulate freely from the
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg within the European Economic Area, as long as the general principles of the GDPR
are respected. In particular, care must be taken to respect the principle of purpose limitation, under which
data must not be processed for purposes "incompatible" with the original purposes.

In addition and insofar as the terms of these data exchanges are provided for by the delegated regulation
(EU) 2020/473 of the Commission of 20 January 2020 with regard to the standards applicable to databases
data relating to Union qualification certificates, service records and logbooks, this article
does not raise any observations from the CNPD.

Thus decided in Belvaux on December 17, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

221

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion relating to bill no. 7738 amending: 1° the amended law of 17 July 2020 on
introduction of a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° the law of 19
December 2020, the purpose of which is to set up a temporary contribution from the State
the uncovered costs of certain companies; 3° the amended law of 4 July 2008 on
the youth.

(Deliberation n°30/2020 of December 22, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.
 
On December 21, 2020, the Minister of Health seized the National Commission of a request
of opinion on draft law no. 7738 amending: 1° the amended law of 17 July 2020 introducing a series
measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° the law of 19 December 2020 having as its object the implementation
place of a temporary State contribution to the uncovered costs of certain companies; 3° the amended law of
July 4, 2008 on youth (hereinafter “Bill No. 7738”).
 
The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the national health system can continue to function
adequately in the interest of all patients and that the number of SARS-CoV-2 virus infections
can decrease significantly. It is therefore proposed to maintain certain measures to combat
Covid-19 pandemic already in place, to strengthen others and to adopt new ones that will apply during
the period from December 26, 2020 to January 10, 2021.
 
The CNPD would like to point out that given the urgency of the bill under opinion, it is not possible for it to analyze
in depth the proposed amendments and that its opinion was drafted and adopted solely on the basis of the
information available to it to date. The opinion is given subject to possible future considerations.
 
1. Ad article 9 of bill n°7738
 

222

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES Article 9 of bill no. 7738 aims to modify article 5 paragraph (3) of the amended law of July 17, 2020
introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, specifying that the transmission
by health professionals to the director of health of certain personal data of persons
whose result of a diagnostic test for infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus was negative is intended not only
to follow the evolution of the spread of the virus, but also to acquire fundamental knowledge relating to
to this development.
 
Furthermore, according to the new article 5 paragraph (3) point 2 of the amended law of July 17, 2020 on
introduction of a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, medical analysis laboratories
are obliged to transmit to the director of health the surname, first names, sex, identification number or date of
birth, the municipality of residence or the address of the people who underwent a serological test, as well as
than the result of this test. These data are anonymized by the director of health or his delegate after a
duration of two years. According to the explanatory memorandum, as “the level of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 decreases with
time, this immune signature of infection is only of value for a limited time. For this reason, the
the most appropriate shelf life appears to be two years. »
 
In this regard, the National Commission refers to point 2.3 of this opinion, subject to considerations
future from him.
 
2. Ad article 10 of bill n°7738: the collection of personal data within the framework of the

vaccination program

 

2.1. Preliminary remarks

 
With regard to the legal basis on which the processing carried out by the director of health with a view to
to monitor the evolution of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, more specifically the public interest under Article
6 paragraph (1) letter e) as well as Article 9 paragraph 2) letter i) of the GDPR, the CNPD would like to refer to its
related comments in its initial opinion on draft law no. 7606 introducing a series of
measures concerning natural persons in the context of the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19).178
 
Nevertheless, it would like to point out that Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR provides for a specific constraint related to
the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a mission
in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In
these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must be specifically defined
either by the law of the European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller is
submitted.

178 Deliberation n°13/2020 of June 8, 2020.

223

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should "[...] belong to Union law or the law of a State
member to determine the purpose of the processing. [...]". Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies that this measure
legislation should be clear and precise and its application should be predictable for litigants, in accordance
the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights.
 
Thus, while a national or supranational normative text should not specifically prescribe the treatment of
data, “the purpose of the processing must however be precise, insofar as the text leading the administration
to process data must allow citizens to deduce the nature of the data and the purposes for which
these are used”179.
 

2.2. As for the purpose pursued by the collection of data within the framework of the vaccination program

  
The new Article 10 paragraph (1) of the amended law of July 17, 2020 introducing a series of
measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic provides that the information system set up by the director
of health with a view to monitoring the evolution of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus now pursues a purpose
additional: “continuously monitor and evaluate the efficacy and safety of vaccines against Covid-19. »
 
Pursuant to article 10 point 2° of bill n°7738, the new point 3 of article 10 paragraph (2) of the
amended law of July 17, 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic
thus provides that the information system put in place by the Director of Health covers, in addition to the data
initially contained therein,180 on a whole series of personal data collected within the framework of the
vaccination program concerning the vaccinator, on the one hand, that is to say the doctor in charge of
or confirm the indication for vaccination and prescribe the vaccine in order to set up this system of
surveillance,181 as well as the person to be vaccinated, on the other hand.
 
Nevertheless, on the basis of the information currently available to it, the National Commission has difficulty
to enter the precise purpose of the collection and recording in the information system of all these data at
personal character concerning the vaccinator and the person to be vaccinated. Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (b) of the
GDPR indeed requires that personal data must be “collected for specified purposes,
explicit and legitimate, and not further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes”.
 
The explanatory memorandum is quite vague in this respect, stating only that it is necessary "to ensure a follow-up
of the quality and effects of the various vaccines, in particular in order to strengthen the confidence of the population
towards vaccination" and that this "monitoring also includes the usual activities of measuring vaccination coverage,
measuring the effectiveness of vaccines and pharmacovigilance. […] Indeed, it is necessary to verify the usefulness
of vaccination in order to identify its benefits. Finally, this monitoring will make it possible to adjust the vaccination strategy
and the deployment plan. »
 

179 M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture

Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619

180 These are data collected under article 5 of the amended law of 17 July 2020 introducing a series of measures to combat the pandemic
Covid-19 and data collected pursuant to articles 3 to 5 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the compulsory declaration of certain diseases within the framework of the
protection of public health.

181 As specified in the commentary to article 10 of the bill under opinion.

224

5ANNUAL REPORT2020 CNPDANNEXES Considering the declarations of the government that vaccination against the coronavirus will not be compulsory,
the CNPD therefore wonders what exactly consists of the purpose pursued by the processing of data to
personal character of the vaccinator and of the person to be vaccinated. Does the purpose as indicated fit or is it
limited in a context of pharmacovigilance182 or requirements of the law of July 4, 2000 relating to liability
of the State in terms of vaccinations establishing the responsibility of the State in certain cases of sequelae due to
a legal, regulatory or state-recommended vaccination?
 
Given the urgency and lack of precision in the commentary on the articles, the CNPD was not able to
research and analyze the legal texts on the subject. It therefore also wonders whether similar data
are collected and recorded in state files as part of vaccinations against other diseases
or pathologies, in particular those listed in the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 18 October 2001 determining
the list of recommended vaccinations.
 
Finally, the National Commission wonders in this context whether the authors of the bill are not,
furthermore, implicit reference to further processing of data collected for research purposes
scientist ?
 
In order to meet the forecasting and predictability requirements that a legal text must meet, by reference
European case law, and for the sake of transparency and legal certainty, the CNPD recommends
the authors of the bill to specify in the body of the text in more detail what are the purposes
explicit and determined actually pursued by the collection of this large amount of personal data
concerning the vaccinator and the person to be vaccinated.
 

2.3. Regarding the retention period of data collected as part of the vaccination program

 
Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (e) of the GDPR provides that personal data must be “kept
in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”. It is also clear from recital (45) of the
GDPR only when the processing is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or relating to the exercise
of the official authority vested in the controller, it should belong to Union law or to the
right of a Member State to establish, inter alia, the retention period of the data.
 
Thus, the retention period must be determined according to the purpose that led to the collection of the data.
in question. Once this objective has been achieved, this data should be deleted or anonymised (in order in particular to
produce statistics).
 
Point 4° of article 10 of bill no. 7738 provides in this context that personal data
vaccinators are anonymized no later than two years after their collection, while

182 As provided for by article 4 paragraph (5) of the amended law of 21 November 1980 on the organization of the Department of Health and the amended law of 16 August

1968 creating a center for speech therapy and audiometric and speech therapy services.

225

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD the personal data of persons to be vaccinated are anonymized at the latest after a period
twenty years after their collection.
 
The explanatory memorandum specifies in this context that "the data of vaccinated persons will be kept
for twenty years from the date of collection, a minimum period to ensure optimal monitoring of the
vaccination, with a view to protecting vaccinated persons over the long term. In fact, one should not
forget that we are in the presence of a new vaccine which is deployed and whose effects will manifest themselves
in real time. It is therefore in the very interest of the vaccinated person that the data concerning them are
kept for as long as possible in order to check whether an effect appearing after several years can, the
if necessary, be linked to the vaccine or not. On the other hand, with regard to data from vaccinators,
these will be kept for two years. This is explained by their necessity in order to ensure the follow-up of
adverse effects in the short and medium term only. This collection having another objective, the principle of
proportionality requires shorter retention periods. »
 
With regard to the GDPR, it is necessary and essential to define a data retention period within the
health department information system that is proportionate to the purpose pursued. Therefore,
it is necessary to define objective criteria making it possible to justify an adequate retention period.
 
However, the National Commission does not have the necessary scientific and epidemiological expertise,
in order to assess whether the retention of data of vaccinated persons for twenty years from the date of
collection is really necessary and proportionate, in view of the vague and imprecise purpose as indicated in
the text of the bill.
 
The CNPD takes this opportunity to underline the fundamental importance of people's right to information
concerned. Pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, the controller is indeed obliged to provide
to the persons concerned certain information when personal data is collected
directly from them or indirectly through a third party. Precise and appropriate information must therefore be
provided to the persons concerned in a particular health context, both to the vaccinators and especially to the
persons to be vaccinated, in particular of any subsequent use of their data, bearing in mind that the deadline for
Planned data retention is twenty years.
 
Finally, in the absence of precision in the text of bill n°7738, the CNPD wonders what is the origin of the
personal data of vaccinators and vaccinated persons, i.e. who is obliged to collect,
as well as to transmit and record the data in question in the information system of the management of
health. Are they the same vaccinators who are in charge of the vaccination program in the centers?
vaccinations?183 Or is it also planned in the short and medium term that referring doctors can
directly vaccinate their patients and in this case, they would be obliged to transmit the data in question to

183 See in this context the vaccination strategy against COVID-19 in Luxembourg:
 

https://sante.public.lu/fr/actualites/2020/12/communique-strategie-vaccination/index.html.

226

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES the health department? In addition, there is reason to wonder what happens to the data thus collected
by the vaccinators and then forwarded to the health department. Does the data collected by the
vaccinators are they immediately destroyed upon transmission or do they remain recorded in files
vaccinators for a certain period of time?
 
These points deserve to be clarified and specified in the text of the bill.
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on December 22, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

227

2020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPD Opinion relating to bill 7652 amending: 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 on
creation of the automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14
February 1955 concerning traffic regulations on all public roads.

(Deliberation n°32/2020 of December 30, 2020)

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

By letter dated July 21, 2020, the Minister of Mobility and Public Works informed the
National Commission for the preparation of a draft law in order to adapt the legal framework of the amended law of 25
July 2015 creating the automated control and sanction system (hereinafter referred to as "the amended law
of July 25, 2015) with a view to setting up “red light cameras”. As of August 20, 2020, the project
of law 7652 amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the control and sanction system
automated vehicles and 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955 concerning the regulation of traffic on all
public roads, was tabled in the Chamber of Deputies.

Not having been directly seized by the Minister, neither at the stage of the preliminary draft, nor at the stage of the draft
law, the CNPD nevertheless wishes to comment on draft law 7652, and on the interactions of the latter
with the legal framework relating to the protection of personal data. This self-assessment is explained by the fact
that the National Commission had already ruled on the bill creating the system
control and automated sanction and modifying the modified law of February 14, 1955 concerning the
traffic regulations on all public roads.

The bill under review is part of the “road safety” action plan (2019-2023) adopted by the
Government including various measures to be implemented by 2023 in order to combat road accidents
road and improve road safety. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum to the bill explains that “the measure
14 of this action plan provides for the strengthening of respect for red lights, in particular through the installation of
“red light cameras”. These radars are designed to detect non-compliance with a red light signal in a
systematic and automatic.

184 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (parliamentary document 6714/05).

228

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES In addition to speeding, as is already the case, and failure to observe a red light, as explained above, the
The purpose of the CSA system, in the longer term, is also to identify two other types of breaches of the Code of
the road, i.e. the failure to respect the safety distances between vehicles, and the fact of driving on lanes
reserved for other road users.

In this context, it is proposed to adapt the legal framework for speed cameras set by the amended law of 25
July 2015 with a view to setting up speed cameras to record these types of offences.

In this regard, the CNPD would like to share its observations on certain provisions of the bill.
presenting aspects relating to the protection of personal data, with regard to
in particular the installation of “red light” radars.

I. General observations on the legal framework

As a preliminary point, the CNPD notes that the bill proposes to modify article 3 paragraph 2 paragraph 1 of the law
amended on July 25, 2015 by providing for an extension of the consideration of breaches of the Code of
road by automatic speed cameras. If the latter only note for the moment the non-respect of the limitations of
speeds, they will also be required to measure: “1. The speed of vehicles approaching or moving away,
2. The average speed of vehicles between two points, 3. Failure to observe a red light signal, 4. The
distance from the vehicle in front corresponding to a travel time of at least two seconds,
5. The fact of driving on an emergency lane, a part of the roadway reserved for other users or a
lane closed. ".

The CNPD welcomes the government's choice to provide a legal basis for the installation of automatic speed cameras with
all of these features. It notes that such an approach has also taken place in a good number of
European countries. For example, in recent years, France185 and Belgium186 have installed
red light cameras along their roads and developed a legal framework to this end. The purposes of the installation
red light cameras in these countries are common to those of Luxembourg since they also tend to
reduce the driver's feeling of impunity and improve road safety. Red light cameras are there
generally installed in dense urban environments in order to ensure the protection of users in places
frequented by pedestrians, in cases where the action of crossing the road is particularly dangerous but also
especially in very busy areas.

II. As for the images taken by the red light radars

The CNPD observes that when noticing non-observance of a red light signal, depending on
the place where it is installed and the angle of the camera, a radar would be likely not only to capture the

185 In this sense, see the Order of 13 October 2004 creating the automated control system. As of July 1, 2017, 701 red light cameras were already
deployed. These figures can be found on the page https://www.securite-routiere.gouv.fr/radars/differents-types-de-radars/radars-fixes/radars-de-franchissement,
last accessed 11/18/2020.

186 In this sense, see the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 relating to the approval, verification and installation of measuring instruments. Belgium, the 6th reform of
the State in relation to road equipment linked to road safety has provided the regions with powers relating to the crossing of red lights and to equip these
latest radars. Thus in Flanders, the Decree of the Flemish government of July 10, 2015 and in Wallonia, the Decree of the Walloon Government of June 21, 2018 come
modify the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 mentioned above.

229

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD vehicle registration plate, photo of the driver, passenger, but also those of people
physical traffic on public roads, such as pedestrians crossing the road at this location. Depends on
configuration of the premises and the degree of use of the public space, a radar could therefore capture the images
faces other than those of the people present in the vehicle.

It is true that article 11, paragraph (3) of the amended law of July 25, 2015 provides that “during the financial year
of the right of access, anyone other than the driver is masked in the photo exhibited, unless the photo
relates to a vehicle used at the time of the offense in the context of learning or examination
practices for obtaining a driving license. However, this article does not mention the presence of
third persons on the images taken by the radars, such as possible pedestrians.

The CNPD therefore considers it necessary to automatically mask the images of pedestrians and any person
other than the driver, who would have no connection with the offence. In addition, the CNPD reiterates its questions, already
expressed in its opinion on the draft law establishing the automated control and sanction system and
modification of the modified law of February 14, 1955 concerning the regulation of traffic on all roads
public187, as to the relevance of limiting ourselves to masking third parties to the offense only when
the exercise of the right of access to the images of the driver or of the person presumed to be financially responsible.

It also considers it necessary to consider automatic masking of natural persons in the vicinity
roads that are taken during image capture, and temporary masking of vehicle passengers in order to
that they can be made visible again during any legal proceedings. A
such a mechanism would indeed appear to be more in line with the principle of data minimization provided for in Article
5 paragraph (1) letter (c) of the GDPR, which provides that personal data must be “(…)
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed
(…)”.

III. As for informing the public of the existence of red light cameras

The National Commission notes that the draft law does not mention informing the public of the existence of
these speed cameras at red lights. The CNPD recalls that article 12 paragraph 1 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters
as well as matters of internal security provides for a minimum of information to be provided to persons
concerned. This article provides that “The controller shall make available to the data subject
at least the following information:

a) The identity and contact details of the controller;
b) The contact details of the data protection officer;

187 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (parliamentary document 6714/05), p. 4.

230

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES c) The purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended;
d) The right to lodge a complaint with one of the two supervisory authorities referred to in Articles 39 and 40

and the contact details of said authority;

e) The existence of the right to request from the controller personal data relating to

a data subject”.

Paragraph (3) of the same article, however, provides that “the controller may delay or limit
the provision of information to the data subject pursuant to paragraph 2, or not to provide such
information, since and for as long as a measure of this nature constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society, having regard to the purpose of the processing concerned, and taking due
account of the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned, to:

(a) avoid interfering with official or legal inquiries, research or proceedings;
(b) avoid prejudicing the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences;

matter or the execution of criminal sanctions;

c) protect public safety;
(d) protect national security and national defence; Or
(e) protect the rights and freedoms of others”.

Since the installation of automatic speed cameras at red lights concerns a much wider public
simply going beyond drivers and passengers in vehicles, the CNPD intends to attract
the attention of the authors of the bill on the obligation to inform all the persons concerned of
the existence of these speed cameras and the processing of data relating to them (e.g. signs informing drivers
and vehicle passengers as well as pedestrians at the locations of speed cameras installed at red lights). If it is considered
to limit or delay this information, the Grand Ducal Police would have to be able to justify this limitation or
delay of the right to information by one of the hypotheses referred to in Article 12 paragraph (3) cited above,
or even specify it in the text of the bill under consideration.

IV. As for the test phase of the installation of red light cameras

The National Commission understands that a first red light radar is installed in a very busy place in
Luxembourg-City, Place de l’Etoile for a test phase188. The Minister of Mobility and Public Works
also announces the effective installation of said radar around December 2020/January 2021 as well as the installation
additional 2 red light cameras in Hollerich and Schlammestee during 2021189. In
In this context, the National Commission considers that it is appropriate to take advantage of the test phase in order to observe whether
the installation of these red light radars raises questions in terms of data protection (as mentioned above).
above: do pedestrians appear in the images? are the persons concerned properly informed

188 RTL, 5 minutes, "The country's first red light radar is being installed", article of 07/10/2020 available on the page, https://5minutes.rtl.lu/actu/

luxembourg/a/1591684.html, last accessed on 09/12/2020.

189 Luxembourg government press release of 08/06/2020, “Commissioning into service of the first radar section in the context of the fight against
road safety”, press release available on the page https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/communiques/2020/06-juin/08-bausch-radar.html,
last accessed on 09/12/2020.

231

CNPD 2020 ANNUAL REPORT of the presence of such radars, as developed in section 4 above? have some of them been
required to exercise their right of access (including to obtain a copy of the image taken by the radar)? with which
result ? etc.). This feedback can be particularly beneficial and provide some answers
to the questions raised in this opinion.

V. Regarding the exercise of the right of access to the data of the CSA system by the persons concerned

With regard to the right of access to data from the CSA system, the CNPD notes that the legislator has not taken
account of its position expressed in its previously mentioned opinion190. Indeed, Article 11 paragraph 1 of
the amended law of July 25, 2015 provides: "[...] the right to consult the photo of the offending vehicle
and the personal data relating to him processed in the context of the operation of the CSA system”.
Article 11 paragraph 2 provides that: “This consultation takes place at the Center and under the control of the Police.
grand-ducal”. In this regard, the National Commission once again wonders whether the obligation for the person
financially liable or the person named as the driver of the vehicle at the time of the offense
to move to the Center located in Bertrange, does not constitute an unjustified obstacle to the right of access of this
person  ?

However, this problem arises all the more following the entry into application of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters
as well as in matters of national security, of which Article 11 provides in its paragraphs (1) and (2) that:

“(1) The controller shall take reasonable steps to provide any information referred to in Article
12 and carries out any communication relating to the processing relating to Article 10, Articles 13 to 17 and
Article 30 to the data subject in a concise, comprehensible and easily accessible manner, in terms
clear and simple. The information is provided by any appropriate means, including electronically. Of
Generally, the data controller provides the information in the same form as the request.

(2) The controller shall facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on the data subject by Article 10 and
sections 13 to 17”.

Article 13 of the aforementioned law provides that:

“Subject to Article 14, the data subject has the right to obtain from the controller confirmation
that personal data concerning him are or are not processed and, when they are, access
to said data as well as the following information:

a) the purposes of the processing and its legal basis;

190 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (parliamentary document 6714/05), p. 4.

232

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES b) the categories of personal data concerned;

c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been
communicated, in particular recipients who are established in third countries or organizations
international;

d) where possible, the envisaged retention period of the personal data or, where

this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this duration;

e) the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or erasure of the data to
personal character, or the restriction of the processing of personal data relating to the person
concerned;

f) the right to lodge a complaint with one of the two competent supervisory authorities referred to in

Articles 39 and 40 and the contact details of the said authority;

g) the communication of personal data being processed, as well as any information

available as to their source.

In this context, since the entry into force of the amended law of 25 July 2015, the National Commission has
received numerous requests for information and complaints, from citizens wondering about the need
having to go to the Center in Bertrange to consult the photo of the offending vehicle, and thus
to exercise their right of access, which effectively raises the question of the compatibility of Article 11 of this law with
the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018.

In this regard, public petition no. 1216 “to obtain/send a copy of the photo
taken during an automated traffic control (Radar), even if it is true that this petition has not
obtained the required number of signatures in order to be the subject of a public debate.

Consequently, the National Commission reiterates its position expressed in the opinion on the draft law on
creation of the automated control and sanction system and modification of the amended law of February 14, 1955
concerning traffic regulations on all public roads. It therefore considers it necessary
to modify article 11 paragraph 2 of the amended law of 25 July 2015 in order to allow “[…] to the
financially responsible person or the person designated as the driver of the vehicle at the time of
the offense of consulting the photo concerning his vehicle, according to his choice, on site at the Centre, or of receiving
communication of the photo via a prior written request addressed to the Centre”.

233

ANNUAL REPORT 2020 CNPD VI. As for the retention period of the photos

The National Commission wonders whether, on the occasion of the introduction of Bill 7652, it would not be useful
to clarify the question of the retention period of photos taken from speed cameras, which it had already raised
in its opinion of 25 February 2015191?

The retention periods for recorded data are currently provided for in Article 4 of the Grand-
ducal of 7 August 2015 authorizing the creation of a file and the processing of personal data in the
framework of the automated control and sanction system192.

Moreover, article 2 of this same Grand-Ducal regulation indicates that the file contains only the data
“by observed and recorded infringement”. Should we understand a contrario that if there is no infringement found,
the photos are not saved and automatically destroyed?

Otherwise, it would be essential to provide in the Grand-Ducal law or regulation what happens
images from radars, whereas in the eyes of the CNPD, these should be immediately destroyed
in the event that no infringement is observed, in order to respect the principle of the retention period
limited data, provided for in Article 3 paragraph (1) letter e) of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018.

Thus decided in Belvaux on December 30, 2020.

The National Data Protection Commission
  
Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

191 Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (parliamentary document 6714/05), p. 7.
192 Note that this Grand-Ducal regulation still refers to the repealed law of 2 August 2002, having been adopted before the legislative change introduced by the law

cited above on August 1, 2018.

234

52020 ANNUAL REPORT CNPDANNEXES 15, Boulevard du Jazz - L-4370 Belvaux

Telephone: +352 26 10 60-1 - Fax: +352 26 10 60-6099

www.cnpd.lu

