  Thursday, March 4, 2021 2: Press releases Register Modernization Act in the Bundesrat: changes needed! On March 5, 2021, the Federal Council will vote on the introduction of the Register Modernization Act. With this law, the tax ID should become a general identification number in public administration for every person. The state representative for data protection Schleswig-Holstein Marit Hansen: "Register modernization: yes - but not like this!" Hansen appeals to the state government of Schleswig-Holstein not to approve the submitted register modernization law in the Bundesrat. As early as summer 2020, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments called for the modernization of the register to be implemented in accordance with the constitution. The plan that the tax ID should become the overall identification number of every person is particularly criticized: in all areas of the state - from the statutory health and pension insurance to the registration and identification system, the trade and training register to drones -, vehicle and driving license registers - a uniform identification number should be used. The data protection officers had already complained about this several times. Above all, however, they have made suggestions as to how a register modernization without a uniform personal identifier can be implemented in accordance with the constitution and still make the administrative process easier for the citizens. Hansen emphasizes: “There are solutions that do not require an overall personal number such as the tax ID and are significantly more data protection-friendly – for example, sector-specific personal identification numbers are used in Austria. My impression is that the federal government never seriously considered more data protection-friendly alternatives, but rejected them outright from the start.” The data protection conference sees the design decision to use the tax ID as a uniform personal identifier as a contradiction to constitutional regulations. An elaboration by the scientific services of the German Bundestag in no way dispels this criticism, but on the contrary speaks of a high degree of interference with the right to informational self-determination. From Hansen's point of view, the risk of a uniform personal identifier is not offset by the planned function of a so-called data cockpit. This is intended to give citizens more transparency about their stored data and to be able to find out when the authorities share which data about them. “With the tax ID as a uniform personal identifier, it is much more difficult to prevent misuse of the data. The risk is also significantly greater in the event of data breaches – countries such as Sweden, where personal identification numbers are common, are now noticing this.” A data breach was recently reported in Sweden, in which the recordings of 2.7 million medical telephone consultations were made publicly available on the Internet were - in many cases including the Swedish personal number. Hansen's conclusion: "Simplification in administration: yes, please! But not like that."   Further information: Resolutions of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments: from August 26th, 2020: Implement register modernization in accordance with the constitution! https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/en/20200828_entschluss_pkz_final_1.pdf from September 12th, 2019: Make the digitization of the administration data protection compliant and citizen-friendly! https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/en/20190912_entschluss_zur_digitalisierungs_der_verwaltung.pdf Scientific services of the German Bundestag: "Introduction of a cross-register uniform identification number according to the draft of a register modernization law - DSGVO and right to informational self-determination", WD 3 - 3000 - 196/20, 09/16/2020, https://uldsh.de/bdks9p If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure