1/20

 File No.: PS/00392/2020

- RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE
 

 

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), filed a claim on 06/22/2020
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The grounds on which the claim is based
are that "an illicit treatment of personal data has been carried out, consisting of the
non-consensual capture of my personal image and voice data by recording
video and its subsequent massive dissemination through social networks and the media".
He explains that he left (...) on ***DATE.1 “when I see a car marked by the police (...) from
whose interior an agent signals me to approach the car”. identify several
disclosures of the video on social networks, ***WEB.1 and ***DIARIO.1 in which it can be seen
the video.

He points out that he found out because a few hours after it happened (10:30), they told him
friends that the video was spreading massively on social networks, considering the
claimant that the recruitment was made by the agent with “his mobile phone”.

In ***WEB.1, reference: “***REFERENCE.1” (…), profile “***PROFIL.1”, ***DATE.2, of
duration, 34 seconds. Provide a copy of the CD in which the video that coincides with the
the one that appears in ***WEB.1 and list of pages and media in which the video was broadcast.

It requests that a sanctioning procedure be initiated against those who are found to be violators.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I,
Second section, of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12 of Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 07/17/2020, the
claim to the CITY COUNCIL OF OVIEDO, (claimed) with the literal:

A response is received on 08/18/2020, stating that "on 8/10/2020 and after having
determined to the official of that Corps that could be the origin of the recordings
object of the complaint, he was informed that a copy of the complaint filed would be sent to him,
giving it until 8/13/20 to issue a report to that effect".

On 8/11/2020, the official appeared at the local police offices and was
submit the documentation.

It concludes that on 8/14/2020, said official stated that at the direction of his lawyer and
For the moment, it will not report on the claim transferred by the AEPD.

THIRD: On 10/22/2020, the claim is admitted for processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

FOURTH: On 03/23/2021, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE of a warning to the CITY COUNCIL OF
OVIEDO, for alleged violations of article 32 and article 5.1.f) of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter GDPR); in relation to article 5 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), as stated in article 83.4.a) and 83.5.a) of the
GDPR.”

FIFTH: On 04/13/2021, it presents allegations in which it states:

1-In the transfer of the claim it is not appreciated that the City Council appeared as
denounced for which proceedings were initiated to verify the identification of the alleged perpetrator
of the recordings with your professional identification number. With this, it was understood that
responded to the brief, and that it would serve as a basis to support the claimant's request
in his duty to collaborate.

2- The claimant for the facts denounced requests how many investigative activities are
consider accurate. They do not know if any investigative action has been carried out
additional to the one sent by the City Council.

Considers that the rights and guarantees of any procedure have been violated
recognized penalty in our legal system, since the Agency has not
No investigation has been carried out to clarify the facts and the claimant has not
requested to initiate proceedings against the defendant whom it does not indicate as alleged
responsible. There is no minimum investigation of the facts before the start of the
sanctioning procedure, which means that the burden of proof has fallen on the
claimed, who is intended to be punished for some facts for which he is not responsible.
“It is clear from the facts contained in the claim that it was not the author or
of the recordings or their dissemination. Nor does the defendant appear related to the
media in which the images are disseminated, is not the owner of the media or page in which
appear.

3- The facts related to the claimant's statement that the images were
recorded from inside the police vehicle must take into account that the treatment of
data is not municipal, these data are not included in any administrative file or
hosted on their systems, so there has been no violation of security measures.
claimant's safety.

4-There is no guilt in that the conduct that is reproached must be unlawful
typified and guilty, consequence of action or omission attributable to the alleged offender, "for
malice, recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance”.

The City Council is being attributed the commission of some acts by the mere circumstance of
that the alleged perpetrator is a municipal worker who eludes the basic principle of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

sanctioning regime and also the Data Protection regulations themselves, as they are contrary to
the definition of data controller contained in article 4 of the Regulation, since
the images are not captured or disclosed by the claimed party.

The assumption of responsibility for the acts committed by a public official in a
act of service cannot be considered direct, but subsidiary. In case of
existence of an offense is not automatic either, but rather requires an analysis of the situation.
It would be necessary that the sanctionable act occurred in the performance of its own functions
of the police misusing their public function with a lack of due observance
and diligence in the control of the employee's performance by the administration,
all the concurrent circumstances of the denounced facts must be assessed. Is
assessment of the concurrent circumstances has been obviated in the procedure.

5- The means by which the recordings were made does not come from the municipal system,
because they lack corporate mobile devices through which they can do
recordings.
The alleged recording and dissemination of a verbal warning made by an agent to a
citizen that is what the complaint consists of in this case, exceeds the functions
typical of any municipal employee, especially a police officer, since they do not
There are instructions issued by superiors or by any municipal official that
order the capture and dissemination of images of people detained or warned as
test medium.

There is no link between the functions of the police and the recording and dissemination of the images
since there was no need to make such recordings for incorporation into a
diligence or administrative file, nor do the agents have corporate means to
be able to catch them.

6-The video continues to be exposed, although the AEPD has a "priority channel" to communicate
the dissemination of sensitive content and request its withdrawal, with a series of mechanisms
tending to its withdrawal, and if appropriate, a sanction against the people who have
disseminated this material.

7-They have technical and organizational security measures in accordance with the annex
two of the National Security Scheme, and develops a training plan for employees
that includes online training material and reinforcement with training courses
specialized in Data Protection.

8-Given that it is not considered responsible for the treatment or the dissemination of the images or
of its recording, "I have not been able to incur in the imputed infractions". Request the file
process.

SIXTH: On 04/14/2021, it was decided to carry out tests, incorporating the claim and
the documentation obtained from the transfer as well as the allegations to the initial agreement.

In addition, the respondent is requested to report:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

a) If the Agents have written instructions or any other means, on the use of the
personal data of citizens, specifically with the use of devices such as
personal mobiles, when they are on public roads providing service, how have they been
provided that information?

A response is received on 05/06/2021, indicating having received the request for evidence and
state that these are “allegations”.

It shows that in the allegations to the initial agreement of 04/14/2021 they requested that
investigate the facts, considering it as a request for evidence and it has not been done, and that
Those allegations went unanswered. The actions of
inspection of the AEPD that is said in the test agreement: they are considered reproduced "the
documents obtained and generated by the Inspection Services before the City Council”, and
they do not know if that Service carried out inquiries, not being able to allege or request evidence
related to them, since it is unknown if such an inspection was made or what inquiries
figure.

Regarding what was requested, it states that the employees of the City Council have information
that can be seen on a website of the municipality, on the use of devices "code
telematic”, within the transparency section. The link offered, when clicked, takes you to the page
of the claimed but not directly to the information, giving an error, ignoring at the
organization and security measures in terms of data protection that information and
Through what means is it given to employees, to local police officers in particular.

In addition, he points out, the police group to which the alleged author of the recordings belongs
sent instructions on the use of the images in email on 11/22/2017. I know
I attach a copy of the email sent as an email with instructions on the use of
images. The instructions refer to a "guide to the use of mobile camcorders by the
Security Forces and Bodies”, which was also posted on the order board of the center
along with a report from the City Council Advocacy on the use of
private video cameras of police officers as a means of defending complaints.
It accompanies the emails, and it is appreciated that originally part of a union
police that bears the literal "look at the attached document", entitled "guide for the use of video cameras
mobile by the security forces and bodies”. In turn, from the Local Police Headquarters,
sent to various addresses and people, and on 11/22/2017, it was sent to various groups of
police recipients.

a) If there is any reference typified in the applicable regulations in compliance with the
provision of the service, which can be adjusted to the case in which an agent that captures
presumably with his private cell phone to a person from inside the police vehicle,
which then also appears on ***WEB.1, for no reason, what kind of infraction could it be?

It states that the file is in the initiation phase and that at the current date it is not possible
identify the infringement without violating the rights of the alleged author of the recording,
sanctioning procedure established in Organic Law 4/2010 of 20/05, of the
disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps.

b) If that entity, about the alleged author of the capture of the images that are later
disseminated, has initiated disciplinary actions or of any other type, either ex officio or by
request of the affected

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

He stated that: “The ENS Security Committee of the City Council of Oviedo in a meeting of 16
of April 2021 has reached an agreement and sent a communication to the Chief of the Local Police,
urging the performance of pertinent actions of at least the opening of a file
information to the alleged perpetrator of the events while the Agency carries out the investigations
about them that are relevant to establish authorship.”

In the proposal that it provides, it is indicated that the transfer of the claim was received on 08/06/2020
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and is proposed to the local police officer who identifies himself,
for the possibility of having made an illicit treatment of data through the mobile phone
and its subsequent dissemination, involuntary capture of personal image and voice data through
video recording by mobile phone and its subsequent broadcast.

It states that: “On May 3, 2021, the Chief of the Local Police proposed
initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the allegedly implicated agent”. Although it indicates that
a copy is provided, the document that it indicates has 22 pages, it is cut on page 9, being able to
not having attached the document correctly.

He states that there is no record of the authorship of the broadcast of the recording since until
the date the City Council lacks information on who spread the video on the networks
requiring the Agency to carry out timely investigations.
 
It also requests that the term for carrying out the test be extended up to the limits
maximum, so that the Agency can make pertinent inquiries about the facts.

Request that the Agency investigate the facts by providing sufficient evidence of the authorship to the
less than the dissemination of the videos, sending the result of said videos to the City Council
investigations so that they can be presented as evidence in the procedure
sanctioning party and, where appropriate, in the file of the alleged offender, exonerating the City Council
responsibility for recording and broadcasting the video.

SEVENTH: On 11/3/2021, a resolution proposal is issued with the literal:

“That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency direct a
warning to CITY COUNCIL OF OVIEDO, with NIF P3304400I, for infractions of the
GDPR of articles:

- 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the RGPD,
- 5.1.f) of the RGPD in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD”

Faced with the proposal, allegations are received on 11/19/2021, in which it states:

– “Inconsistency of the Resolution proposal with the claim presented by the
affected that gives rise to the initiation of the file, contravening article 88 of the LPACAP. In
the resolution proposal only deals with capturing the image, without assessing the
dissemination that is also part of the object of the claim with the publication on networks
social networks, internet or media of the image of the claimant.”

-“Dissemination treatment is not taken into account nor have actions been taken to
stop the publication of images in the media. Thus, from July 17, 2020,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

date of registration of the claim, as of November 15, 2021, the video of the
claimant is still published.”

- “Breach of the principles of the sanctioning procedure in the sanction proposal
to City Hall. Taking into account that the damage to the interested party is not produced so much by the recording
but by the dissemination of images, it is necessary to reiterate that, among the principles of
sanctioning power included in Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the legal regime of the
public sector, the principle of necessity is found in its article 29 in which paragraph 3
points out: “In the normative determination of the sanctioning regime, as well as in the imposition
of sanctions by the Public Administrations, the due suitability and
necessity of the sanction to be imposed and its adequacy to the seriousness of the constitutive act of the
infringement".

-Reiterates that:

 “It is not considered responsible for the treatment of recordings that are not
made in the performance of their duties. The City Council is not responsible for the
purposes - unrelated to the needs of performing the job -, nor of the means of recruitment -
the device is owned by the employee- nor of those of dissemination identified by the claimant.”

 “The making of the video is not a consequence of an action or omission of the
City Hall of Oviedo. The City Council does not authorize members of the local police to
make recordings for purposes other than traffic control or public safety, or
It is a performance framed in their professional functions. The derivation of the
responsibility to the City Council for some facts that it has not committed bankruptcy the principles
of the sanctioning procedure since, according to the jurisprudence, “[…] otherwise,
would collapse the foundation of the punitive system, according to which each one responds of his
own acts, without it being possible, in order to more effectively protect public interests,
establish any liability punishable jointly and severally for acts of others”.

 Absence of responsibility, either by intent or by fault or lack of diligence in the

compliance with obligations in terms of Data Protection.

-They consider regarding the manifestation that they have acted with delay in taking
specific measures in the initiation of the disciplinary procedure against the alleged
responsible for the video, which has not been the case, since in the transfer phase of the claim
communicated to the Agency the identity of the person who had allegedly carried out the
recordings and it is the only one that has powers and competences for the investigation
in terms of data protection, the City Council lacking any means of proof
against the agent beyond the viewing of the image and the claim, proceeding to the
collaboration with the Agency.

When the City Council was aware that the AEPD was not going to carry out any investigation
additional "initiated the procedures for the opening of the sanctioning procedure, indicating that
in it "a statement has been taken from the alleged perpetrator."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

They provide a copy of a letter dated 04/30/2021, communicated to staff of the "proposed
initiation of disciplinary proceedings” in which the beginning of the actions of the
AEPD received on 08/06/2020 and "having seen the report issued by the Head of the Unit of
Technical office of 08/15/2020” narrating the facts of the transfer of the claim to the police
and his posture.

-To justify that you have technical and organizational measures in data processing
provide an ANNEX 1 on the training given in security and data protection from
May 2018, noting that more than 500 employees have attended the face-to-face actions.
To this must be added the activities carried out especially for the local police,
with face-to-face training for a total of 30 troops, with specialized courses on
cybersecurity, social networks or minors. In addition, online training was given open to
any employee, including local police. The ANNEX does not indicate how many members
make up the local police, offering the number of employees who have carried out the
training actions throughout the editions of the various actions in each year. Other
different box specifies the training actions of the local police, appearing in 2018,
eight people, in 2019, one, in 2020 six and in 2021, one.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant claims for the fact of "the involuntary collection of my data
personal image and voice by video recording” and “its subsequent massive dissemination to
through social networks and media". He explains that it came out (...) on ***DATE.1 and
Signals were made from a Local Police car for me to come closer” to the car. I know
can see the video, indicates the claimant in ***DIARIO.1, or "on social networks such as
***WEB.2, ***WEB.3, ***WEB.4, ***WEB.1”, as indicated. In ***WEB.1, it can be seen that the
video is made from inside the vehicle of the Local Police, it also makes it
manifest in the claim by the claimant, specifically from the passenger seat. is captured
to the person (…) from the front, the claimant. As you move to the left side of the
vehicle, the shot that always focuses on him moves, and warned, he stops. the agent of
police driver of the vehicle, who is also recorded from the side speaking through the
window, (...) and the claimant (...) of his own accord turns towards his house. When
retires is also followed in his departure by the camera. You can hear perfectly
conversation and the claimant is fully identified.

THIRD: In the transfer of the claim, the respondent stated that he had been able to
identify the official who could be the source of the recording to whom he delivers the
request, and that he declined to make any statement on the case.

FOURTH: The defendant, in the request for evidence initiated on 04/14/2021, stated, dated
05/06/2021, that “The ENS Security Committee of the Oviedo City Council in a meeting of 16
of April 2021”, “has reached an agreement and sent a communication to the Chief of the Local Police,
urging the performance of pertinent actions of at least the opening of a file
informative to the presumed author of the facts.”

In execution of the measure, “On May 3, 2021, the Chief of the Local Police
proposed initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the allegedly implicated agent.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

FIFTH: Requested in tests, if the claimed, as responsible for the treatment of the
data carried out by its Agents, it has given these instructions on the use of the data
citizens, specifically with the use of devices such as mobiles
personal, when they are on public roads providing service, their response was that
sent on 11/22/2017 a document entitled "guide for the use of mobile video cameras by
Forces and Security Bodies”, of which its content is ignored or responsible for editing and
contents. The guide came from a Police Union targeting emails from
employees and Police of the City Council, who forwarded it to other mailing lists by
Police groups/scales. Its content, elaboration and in any case, its origin is unknown.
comes from the person in charge charged in this procedure, being a document also
prior to the entry of the RGPD, applicable as of 05/25/2018.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each control authority,
and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Regarding the allegations of the respondent regarding the need to carry out actions of
investigation, indicate that if they were mandatory, they should have been carried out before the
initial agreement, not at the pretrial phase.

“Prior to the initiation of the procedure, preliminary actions may be carried out
ways in order to determine on a preliminary basis whether there are circumstances that justify
quen such initiation (article 55 of the LPACAP). In particular, these actions will be aimed at
determine, as precisely as possible, the facts likely to motivate the initiation
of the procedure, the identification of the person or persons who could be responsible
bles and the relevant circumstances that concur in each other.”

The previous actions will be carried out by the bodies that have been assigned functions of
investigation, inquiry and inspection in the matter and, failing these, by the person or
administrative body that is determined by the competent body for the initiation or resolution
tion of the procedure.

Preliminary actions do not constitute a proper phase of the administrative procedure.
nistrative sanction since, as we have pointed out, their purpose is to determine with
preliminary character if the circumstances that justify the initiation of the procedure concur.
I lie.
The LOPDGDD on previous investigation actions indicates in article 67:

"1. Before the adoption of the agreement to initiate the procedure, and once admitted for processing
the claim, if any, the Spanish Data Protection Agency may carry out

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

preliminary investigative actions in order to achieve a better determination of the facts and
the circumstances that justify the processing of the procedure”

Once in the instruction phase of the sanctioning procedure, the following are applicable:
general principles of criminal law with nuances. During the training phase they have
place the actions to verify the facts and allegations and ends the investigation
with the resolution proposal that will establish “in a reasoned manner the facts that are considered
proven” and its exact legal qualification, the infraction that, in its case, will be determined.
those constitute, the person or persons responsible and the proposed sanction, the
evaluation of the tests carried out, especially those that constitute the foundations
basics of the decision” (art 89.3 LPACAP).

The facts that motivate the initiation and imputation of responsibility to the defendant appear
clear in the initial agreement. These facts were known by the defendant through the
claim transfer. At no time did they mention the authorship of the exposed video
but the very making of the video, as it derives from what is seen on ***WEB.1 and what is captured
from inside the vehicle the images of the claimant.

In the testing period of this procedure, it is not appropriate as requested by the
demanded that the authorship of the exhibition of the video be investigated, to which the
fundamentals of the initiation agreement, but only to authenticate that the images were obtained
from within.
 

III

Within the definitions, the GDPR points out:

Article 4:

1) “personal data”: all information about an identified or identified natural person.
ble ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose identity
identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier,
such as a name, an identification number, location data, an identity
online maker or one or more elements of the physical, physiological, genetic identity,
ca, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression
or destruction;

7) “controller” or “controller”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means
of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the purposes and
means of treatment, the person responsible for treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

9) "addressee": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body to which
that personal data is communicated, whether or not it is a third party. However, it is not
The public authorities that may receive personal data in the
framework of a specific investigation in accordance with the law of the Union or of the
Member states; the processing of such data by said public authorities will be
in accordance with the rules on data protection applicable to the purposes of the treatment-
I lie;

10) "third party": natural or legal person, public authority, service or body other than the
The interested party, the person in charge of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment and the persons
entities authorized to process personal data under the direct authority of the controller or
of the manager;”

The distinction between data controller and employee of the latter is derived from the GDPR, which
has the effect of being authorized to process personal data under its authority and in its
Name. Data processing is not carried out solely by the controller or the person in charge.
of treatment, but rather the number of users who process personal data in any
Any public administration is equivalent to the number of public employees of the same.

With this, it is meant that both the decision-making positions of responsibility and the employers
employees acting on behalf of the data controller, when carrying out data processing
of personal data in the performance of their duties, within their structure.
ra, they are in the circle of power of direction and action of said person in charge of the treat-
also in what affects the implementation of its data protection policy
(data governance).

The RGPD or the LOPDGDD at no time determine that the responsibility in the
treatment may be required of the employee or position, if it refers to the responsibilities
disciplinary measures in article 77 of the LOPDGDD that referring to the processing of personal data
personal character by public entities, specifies:

"two. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning the
themselves with warning. The resolution will also establish the appropriate measures
adopt to stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had occurred.
task.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and it is proven
the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that would not have
been duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official Gazette of the State or regional government that corresponds”

Responsibility is demandable to the person in charge of the treatment, regardless of the fact that
have the personal data by itself, decision of its Director or titular position, as if the decision
sion is taken by an employee, especially if it occurs as in this case, in the development of the
assigned professional duties.

IV

Article 5 of the RGPD refers to the principles related to the processing of personal data, and
in its number 2: "The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the
provided for in section 1 and capable of demonstrating it (“proactive responsibility”)”, known
as "compliance" that could be equivalent to, not only compliance, regulatory in this case,
but also in prevention and responsibility of the members that make up their
organizations and the total commitment of their leaders, a mechanism to ensure
good governance and regulatory compliance regarding data protection.

The origin of this action measure arises from requiring companies to implement these
those of compliance to avoid the so-called "self-endangerment" that may suppose that
executives or persons with express powers of attorney to perform functions, may find
provide facilities to carry out behaviors of falsehood in commercial documents and scams
in medial competition, incorporating the Penal Code in its article 31 bis. as modality
of prevention, deploying effective a priori controls and being able to assume its im-
effective enforcement of regulatory infractions. From there arises the figure of the "compliance officer"
that is inserted in a supervision and control body that ensures compliance with the plan of
prevention; commissioning said person, these tasks with autonomy and independence.
Within this system, the establishment of a disciplinary system that sanctions
non-compliance with the measures established by the model", as a form of
to persuade employees to comply with the code of ethics and crime prevention, and
as an expression of a true zero tolerance policy towards the commission of infractions
of criminal relevance, foreseeing measures against people who seriously fail to comply with
crime prevention system
With Directive 95/46/CE of the Parliament and of the Council, of 10/24/1995, regarding the
Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
the free circulation of these data-and the consequent Organic Law 15/1999, of 12/13
protection of personal data, the data protection model was based on
a “static” scheme of the security measures to be implemented, depending on the type of
the data processed, the aim was to avoid the infringement of the rights of the interested parties as
primary obligation.

With the RGPD, anticipation of the infringement or injury of rights is sought, compliance
in advance to avoid injury or infringement of the right or freedom of the interested party. Yes
well, the RGPD/LOPDGDD binomial does not specifically list what those measures are
to implement, does not focus on information belonging to the organization
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

(public or private), but is especially linked to the protection of the data of the
natural persons, demanding a proactive responsibility, and not a reactive responsibility,
as in the previous model. This proactive approach to “implementation
permanent” of the security measures, implies that they are no longer static (as
in the previous model), but dynamic, corresponding to the data controller
determine at all times which of those security measures are necessary to
guarantee the confidentiality, integrity and availability of personal data, being
The first step is to carry out a 'risk analysis'.

Once such threats have been evaluated, the person in charge will be able to determine what are the measures
most appropriate to mitigate or eliminate the risks for the treatment of data that may
arise and affect the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

Consequently, proactive responsibility is required, rather than
reactive (risk-based approach), having to act preventively, having the
due diligence to avoid unwanted processing or breaches in the protection of
the interests of citizens in the field of privacy.

It is the person in charge or in charge of treatment who must accredit said diligence with a
solid and effective internal control system. Therefore, mere demonstration will not suffice.
formal compliance, but this principle requires a previous, conscious, diligent attitude
and proactive by organizations against all data processing
personal they carry out.

Whether these measures are mandatory, or how they are applied, will depend on factors
that must be taken into account in each case, such as the type of treatment and the risk that
said treatment implies for the rights and freedoms of the interested parties. Consequently,
due diligence, must be adapted to the level of risks in the protection of data and the
organization characteristics.

The concept of due diligence can be defined as “the measure of prudence, activity or
assiduity that can reasonably be expected, and with which it normally acts, a
organization prudently and reasonably in certain circumstances; it is not measured
by an absolute norm, but depending on the relative facts of the case in question”. By
Therefore, due diligence is a process in continuous observation and prevention of the effects
negative aspects of the activities of the entities on data protection.

Due diligence in data protection:

-It must cover the possible negative consequences on data protection that the
company could cause or contribute to cause through its own activities or
omissions, which are directly related to its operations, products or services
borrowed.

-Will vary in complexity depending on the size of the organization, the risk of serious
negative consequences on data protection and the nature and context of their
operations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

- It should be a continuous process, since the risks can change over time, depending on the
function of the evolution of the operations and the operational context of the organizations.

Accordingly, due diligence is made up of four elements: identify, prevent,
mitigating and accountability, i.e.:

1. An assessment of the actual and potential impact of the activities on the data
(Risks evaluation).

2. The integration of the conclusions, and the action in this regard (controls).

3. Follow-up and monitoring (performance evaluation).

4. Communicating how you deal with negative consequences
(accountability).

Due diligence provides a defense against liability, allows
reduction of sanctions or provides a defense remedy when the company can prove
that it had implemented “adequate procedures” to prevent an impact.”

In order to prove due diligence, the entity must demonstrate that it has given all the
reasonable steps and taken the necessary actions to avoid generating a
negative impact. This will be interpreted depending on the specific circumstances of each
case.

The Regulation intends to anticipate the moment in which the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment acts with due diligence, through this principle of proactive responsibility,
managing the risks through a solid internal control system, which allows to certify
this diligent action in advance, which initially, may present some
uncertainty in its application, due to the passage of a closed system, based on a
specific enumeration of the security measures to be implemented depending on the type of
processed data, to an open system, whose objective is the application of technical measures and
“appropriate” organizational structures to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is adequate
according to the scope, context and purposes of the treatment.

For the fulfillment of the principle of "Proactive Responsibility" the person in charge and in charge
of treatment must previously carry out an analysis and study of compliance in terms of
risk-based data protection. In other words, they must analyze what measures of
data protection are necessary to implement to ensure compliance with the
Regulation, depending on the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment of
data that they carry out, as well as the risks (probability and consequence) of interference in
the rights and freedoms of the interested parties.

In this way, the more probable and greater the consequences of the risk of the
treatment, more or more far-reaching measures must be necessary to implement to
counteract them (it should be clarified that these are not only security measures
technique).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

The risk-based approach is configured as a key factor in the process of
adequacy or compliance with data protection regulations, since all responsible
or person in charge must previously analyze the level of risk in which the
treatments. As a consequence, the RGPD establishes the obligation of those responsible and
responsible for implementing an internal system of compliance with regard to the protection of
data. System that will be integrated by different internal privacy policies or processes
which must be periodically updated and audited in such a way as to demonstrate
compliance with the Regulation.

Law 40/2015, of 1/10 of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, states in its article
the 28.4:

“The regulatory laws of the different sanctioning regimes may classify as
infraction breach of the obligation to prevent the commission of infractions
administrative by those who are subject to a relationship of dependency or bond.
Likewise, they may provide for the cases in which certain persons will be responsible for the payment
of the pecuniary sanctions imposed on those who depend on them or are linked to them.”

v

For the recording of the personal data of the claimant embodied in the images of the
video that has been previously identified, the Oviedo City Council is charged with the infraction
of article 32 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability and severity
variables for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge and the
in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to
guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience

permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a

fast in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the

technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the level of security, particular consideration will be given to the
risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence of the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

data.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions from the
responsible, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or the
Member states."

In relation to adopting the corresponding security measures, the RGPD seeks to take advantage of
the advantages offered by risk management, but introduces a new vision, where the focus
of attention is not focused on the threats that hang over the company, focusing its
attention to threats to the rights and freedoms of the interested parties. The evaluation
of the risks must be the result of a reflection on the implications that the
processing of personal data have on the interested parties. Is about
establish to what extent a treatment activity, due to its characteristics, the type of
data to which it refers or the type of operations can cause damage to the interested parties.
This approach involves estimating the damage and the type of damage that can occur on the
interested parties, for example, material damage arising from the violation of their rights and
freedoms, or your privacy. Therefore, and before the adoption of the aforementioned measures,
must proceed to assess the risk inherent in the treatments.

Recital 74 of the RGPD says that it indicates: "The responsibility must be established
of the data controller for any processing of personal data carried out by him
yourself or on your own. In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply measures
timely and effective and must be able to demonstrate the conformity of the activities of
treatment with this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures
must take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well
as the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (The underlining is from the
AEPD).

Any of these employees may perform data processing that is not in accordance with
me with the personal data protection regulations, either through the means provided
nates or others, so privacy training should be integral to the
virtually all members of the organization.

The person in charge must establish information and training of its employees in the matters,
guidelines and dissemination of information on data processing, so as to achieve
a uniform application in its field.

Even so, employees and management positions must consider before proceeding to a
data processing, especially if it is different from the usual, or novel, by interpretation
or due to a specific situation, carry out a consultation with the data controller beforehand. East
must issue rules to its employees and management centers to coordinate basic aspects
of data processing.

Apart from the knowledge that must be provided and presupposed to the policemen about the
capturing images on public roads by the Security Forces and Bodies, which is governed
by its specific legislation, constituted by Organic Law 4/1997, of August 4, by the
which regulates the use of video cameras by the Security Forces and Bodies in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

public places, logically the consequences of the
use of personal mobile devices. On these, except for the use that can be made of the
called institutional for the exercise of functions in the cases in which
may be accurate, it must be indicated that their use, such as cameras or personal mobile phones of the
agents for capturing images in the development of professional work, does not guarantee the
data security, while the private uses that each agent can perform with
their own devices are not compatible with the security measures that for the
exercise of police functions must be adopted by those responsible for treatment,
having to accommodate and anticipate specific responsibilities and sanctions in its case. In this
case, it is proven that there are no such measures that have involved an unlawful interference
in the data protection right of the claimant.

In this case, it is not proven that the defendant had measures in place on the use
of personal devices in relation to the performance of their tasks, where they warned of their
regime of use and sanction, or the non-necessity or proportionality of recording images
such as the one that has been the subject of this claim. The due diligence regime
of the principles of data processing is related to the adoption of these protocols,
considering that the rights of citizens can be affected. The infringement of
this article.

Otherwise, the initiation of the disciplinary process, which is only one part of the policy of
regulatory compliance in the organization, is revealed late, and reactive, since it has been with
occasion of the practice of tests, when it is proven that there is no specificity relative to
security measures in the development of the tasks entrusted according to the
risks and devices.

SAW

The author of the video that is viewed on ***WEB.1 provides services for the defendant, and is charged
to the CITY COUNCIL OF OVIEDO the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD:
 “Personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures
appropriate (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

The LOPDGDD states in its article 5:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all persons
that intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality to which
refers to article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”

We are not talking here about the author of the broadcast of the video that appears on ***WEB.1, but about something previous
without whose registration it would not have been possible and of data that have escaped the control of their
authors. This procedure is about the treatment derived from the collection of images
taken, without a doubt, from inside the vehicle, which coincides with the exposed video,
as can be seen from the same vision of the video. Deliberate and clear capture that collects
personal data of the claimant, he can be identified and located on public roads. Is
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

image only has one origin, which is that of the agents who at that moment speak with the
claimant. It is appreciated that the total image of the agent sitting in the seat is collected
driver of the stationary vehicle and this is the one who speaks to the claimant. The image had to be
captured by his companion, given the angle of the images he collects. The collection of
image is what then makes it possible for it to circulate on ***WEB.1 and on other social networks.

SAW

Article 83.4 a) of the RGPD indicates: “Infringements of the following provisions are
sanctioned, in accordance with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 10,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2% as
maximum of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, choosing
for the largest amount:
“The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43;”

For prescription purposes, the infringement of article 32 is contained in article 73 f) of the LO-
PDGDD, which determines:
“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that are appropriate
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the terms
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

While article 83.5 a) of the RGPD indicates:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

“the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”
For prescription purposes, the infringement of article 5.1.f) is contained in article 72. 1.a) of
the LOPDGDD, which determines:
“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in the
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the operations
tions of treatment have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations be
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified time;

The respondent does not adopt or plan to adopt any measure that tends to mitigate facts such as those
examined.

Article 29.3 of Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in order to
graduation of the sanctions provides: “In the normative determination of the sanctioning regime,
as well as in the imposition of sanctions, the due suitability and necessity of the
sanction to be imposed and its adequacy to the seriousness of the act constituting the infraction. The
Graduation of the sanction will especially consider the following criteria: a) The degree of
guilt or the existence of intent. b) The continuity or persistence in the behavior
offending c) The nature of the damage caused. d) Recidivism, by commission in the
term of one year of more than one infraction of the same nature when it has been
declared by firm resolution in administrative proceedings.”

Applicable to both infractions, in this case because the alleged offender is a local entity, the
article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it is possible, and in what
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State"
The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG: “1. The
regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments that are
responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any
of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning the
themselves with warning. The resolution will also establish the appropriate measures
adopt to stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had occurred.
task.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE OVIEDO CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3304400I, for a
violation of articles 32 and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with articles 83.4.a) and
83.5.a) a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the OVIEDO CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD: In accordance with article 58.2.d) of the RGPD: “each control authority may
order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations be
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified period…” the respondent is ordered to enter into
function of the treatment risks derived from police action and the rights
affected, the appropriate measures for the treatment of data with devices such as
personnel policy in the performance of duties, granting him two months to report
of the same carried out.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution
It will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day following the
notification of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber
of the Contentious-administrative of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of 13
July, regulatory of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the term of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in article
46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

