Press Release: No. 01/2022
Magdeburg, April 13, 2022

L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

State authorities must ensure the legally compliant operation of Facebook
prove fan pages

The state commissioner for data protection informs the state administration about a
new short report of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities
of the federal and state governments (DSK) on the issue of data protection compliance
ity of the operation of Facebook fan pages, which can be found on its homepage at
https://lsaurl.de/KurzgutachtenFacebookFanpages.

Albert Cohaus, representative in the office, said: "As early as 2018, the European
Court of Justice found that the operators of Facebook fan pages together with
cebook for the processing of personal data of visitors to its pages
are responsible. Violations by Facebook of European data protection law
are therefore also to be attributed to the fan page operators. The short report arrives
the result that there is no effective legal basis for visiting a
Fan page-triggered storage of information in the end devices of the visitors
are. The same applies to access to information that is already stored in the end devices
are stored, as well as for the processing of personal data by the
Fan page operators are responsible. In addition, the information
obligations from Art. 13 DS-GVO are not fulfilled by the operator."

In Germany, data protection supervisory authorities are now legally admissible
of fan page use by authorities to the test. For this reason
the state commissioner is currently determining which state authorities have Facebook
operate fan pages. The aim is to work towards deactivation if the
Those responsible cannot prove compliance with data protection law.

The DSK had this approach at its 103rd conference on March 23, 2022 in Bonn
decided (see https://lsaurl.de/BeschlussFacebookFanpages).

Imprint:
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
Leiterstrasse 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

