media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*

"Privacy and an independent supervisory authority
belong to a free constitutional state like one
independent judiciary or an impartial administration"
Ofcial handover to the Saxon data protection officer

has the

solemn

handover

On the occasion of
Saxon
Data Protection Officer Dr. Juliane Hundert on the outstanding
social importance of data protection pointed out:
»Privacy is not something secondary or marginal. He is
an indispensable part of a rule of law, oneself
restrictive community. To recognize and acknowledge this
took a few decades of learning, including some landmark judgements
the Federal Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice. If
today with Andreas Schurig handing over the role to me
the independent data protection supervisory authority in the Free State of Saxony
appreciate, then this is done against this background: data protection
and an independent supervisory authority belong to a liberal
Rule of law like an independent
judiciary or an impartial
Administration."
In front of representatives of the Saxon parliamentary groups
Parliament, the state government, the highest state authorities and the
Data protection conference honored Dr. Juliane Hundert the achievements of her
predecessor Andreas Schurig. He was a Saxon from 2004 to the end of 2021
Data Protection Officer. The Saxon state parliament had it in 2009 and 2015
re-elected with a large majority.
Andreas Schurig have all challenges, tasks or events
mastered in his rational and moderate way. He still has that
The reputation of the authority increased, its efciency significantly increased and the
Data protection in Saxony has become an integral part of administrative and
made economic culture. Thank you very much for that, said Dr.
Juliane Hundred.

Page 1 of 2

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

 05/06/2022 at

she

After the election by the state parliament on December 21, 2021, she had that
Office of the Saxon data protection officer at the beginning of 2022
accepted. The date of the ofcial ceremony was due to the
Restrictions due to the corona pandemic postponed and now - up
Invitation from the state parliament – made up for in the Ständehaus in Dresden.
»Today more than ever, we are realizing that personal data is not
only the oil of the modern economy, but also an important one
raw material for public authority. Therefore the ongoing
control activity of my authority, but also its ability to mobilize
of the powers of people's self-privacy, so vital in our
Time. As Saxon data protection officer, I advocate that
data protection is an integral part of our rule of law
remains. With this claim, I will advocate for a privacy-friendly
Use legislation to prevent it from becoming unjustified
interference with people's personal rights," said Dr.
Juliane Hundred.
Finally went
her speech on the draft of
Transparency Act, which the Saxon state parliament is currently discussing
still discusses: »The entry into force of the Transparency Act is now approaching
within reach.
I as
Saxon data protection officers will also take on the function of the
transparency officer can take over - as it is in the draft law
is provided. So I can make the necessary change in the
Saxon administration towards more citizen proximity and transparency
help shape it.«
About the Saxon data protection officer
The Saxon data protection officer is the independent one for Saxony
Data protection supervisory authority according to Article 51 paragraph 1 of the data protection
General Regulation (GDPR). This arises with regard to non-public
Bodies (e.g. companies and associations) from § 14 paragraph 2 of the Saxon
Data Protection Implementation Act; with regard to public bodies (e.g.
B. authorities) from § 14 paragraph 1 of the same law.
Since 2022, Dr. Juliane Hundert holds the office and becomes her department
supported by more than 30 employees in Dresden.
The Saxon data protection officer monitors compliance with the
data protection regulations and handles complaints from citizens
citizens. Other tasks include advising
Saxon responsible for data protection issues.

I would be very

happy if

Left:
More information: www.saechsdsb.de

Page 2 of 2

