

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing through the camera system in the hospital premises
UOOU-02737/21



The inspection was initiated on the basis of
stimulus. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations set forth by the GDPR and
by Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection
with the processing of personal data when using the camera system
on the premises of a specific hospital clinic.








Introduction of camera
monitoring system in the interior of the clinic should have been
according to the statement of the controlled person by the support process for the detection of the origin
adverse patient conditions and an integral part of the patient's overall treatment.
The controlled person further stated that the processing of personal data is according to
provisions of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter c) GDPR established by law
on health services and decrees on health documentation. Processing
special categories of personal data of patients should then be justified by an exception
according to Article 9 paragraph 2 letter i) GDPR when processing is necessary for a reason
public health and serves to ensure strict quality standards
and the safety of health care, medicinal products or healthcare
preparations. Neither the Act on Health Services nor the Ordinance on Health Documentation
however, it does not stipulate the obligation to monitor the condition of patients using video cameras.
In addition, the review revealed that during the last 10 years
the camera footage was not consulted. The office stated that the controlled person
for the use of a camera monitoring system in the interior of the clinic
legal title in the sense of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter c) GDPR does not apply.



To use the camera system in
external premises, the controlled person has demonstrated a legitimate interest according to Article 6
paragraph 1 letter f) GDPR. The legitimate interest lies in the protection of property
hospitals, prevention of vandalism and in the protection of life and health of persons
entering the hospital premises.



The controllers have also grown up
to the conclusion that the audited person did not violate the obligations relating to
to secure personal information. And although a small partial was detected
misconduct in fulfilling the information obligation, their scope and intensity did not reach
the level of breach of obligations jointly established by Article 5(1)(a)
a), Article 12 paragraph 1 and Article 13 GDPR.



Against inspection findings
the controlled person did not object.






Additional information



: It must be emphasized that the stated breach of duty
given Article 6 paragraph 1 GDPR (lawfulness of processing) refers to specifically
declared purposes and facts found during the inspection. In the theoretical
level, the camera monitoring system in the interior spaces could
be operated in accordance with Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) GDPR (legitimate interest
administrator or third parties). However, it would have to be a data controller
demonstrated that for specific purposes a legitimate interest takes precedence over interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject.






ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2022 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection – 1st semester > HEALTHCARE > Inspection of personal data processing through a camera system in hospital premisesView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



