 

Sophie in ‘t Veld 
Member of the European Parliament 
 

by e-mail only 

Dear Ms in ‘t Veld,  

 

Brussels, 24 April 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0031 

Thank you very much for your letter dated 3 April 2020 and its follow up letter dated 8 April 2020 in 
which you raise a series of questions regarding the latest technologies that are being developed in 
order to fight the spread of COVID-19. 

The EDPB is following closely the rapid developments in relation to the initiatives and the measures 
taken by governments, public and private entities for the containment and mitigation of the current 
pandemic. In this context, the EDPB has already published a statement1, which outlined a number of 
considerations that should be taken into account so that lawful processing of personal data is ensured 
and data protection principles are respected. 

The EDPB has further decided to prioritise providing guidance on the issues of geolocation and other 
tracing tools, as well as the processing of health data for research purposes2 in the context of the 
COVID-19 outbreak.  

Please be informed that the EDPB adopted during its 23rd Plenary Session on 21 April its guidance on 
the use of location data and contact tracing tools. The EDPB has taken into account concerns and 
queries from the stakeholders involved as well as the general public in the drafting of this document.  
We hereby annex the guidance to this letter.  

We thank you for interest in the work of EDPB and wish to assure you that we will continue monitoring 
these developments closely and act proactively in the deliberation of our duties. 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

Annex: Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools in the context of the 
COVID-19 outbreak. 

                                                             
1 Statement by the EDPB Chair on the processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak.  
2 Guidelines 03/2020 on the processing of data concerning health for the purpose of scientific research in the 
context of the COVID-19 outbreak. 

 

 

