Corrective and sanctioning measure against TIM SpA - January 15, 2020

Register of measures
n. 7 of 15 January 2020

THE GUARANTOR FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

IN today's meeting, in the presence of Dr. Antonello Soro, president, of dr. Augusta Iannini, vice president, of dr. Giovanna Bianchi Clerici and of prof. Licia Califano, members, and of dr. Giuseppe Busia, general secretary;

HAVING REGARD TO Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, as well as on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 /CE (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter "Regulation");

HAVING REGARD TO the Code regarding the protection of personal data (legislative decree 30 June 2003, n. 196), as amended by legislative decree 10 August 2018, n. 101, containing provisions for the adaptation of the national legal system to the aforementioned Regulation (hereinafter the "Code");

HAVING REGARD TO the numerous complaints and reports received by the Guarantor, with regard to various processing of personal data carried out by TIM SpA (hereinafter also referred to as: "TIM" or "the Company");

HAVING REGARD TO the observations made by the general secretary pursuant to art. 15 of the Guarantor's regulation n. 1/2000;

SPEAKER Prof. Licia Califano;

WHEREAS

1. THE INVESTIGATION ACTIVITY CARRIED OUT

From 1 January 2017 to the first months of 2019, the Authority received a very large number of reports and complaints (in the order of a few hundreds according to a dynamic constantly confirmed before and even after the aforementioned time interval), concerning the processing of data concerning the receipt of unwanted promotional calls, in the interest of TIM SpA (hereinafter also "the Company"), made without the consent of the interested parties; or despite the registration of telephone users in the public register of oppositions; or even after exercising the right to object to the Company; or still in the context of procedures aimed at solving technical faults inherent in the telephone services provided to other interested parties by other telephone companies.

Further complaints also highlighted the failure to respond to the requests made by the interested parties with regard to the rights established by the legislation on the protection of personal data, and in particular those of access to their data and opposition to the processing for promotional purposes, as well as the request of a consent, to be issued compulsorily for processing for marketing purposes, when activating the "TIM Party" program on the Company's website and the collection of a single and indistinct consent to the processing of data for various purposes - even further to the execution of the contract - as part of the forms prepared for the self-certification of possession of a prepaid line.

TIM then sent, in the period in question, various notifications relating to violations of personal data (so-called "data breach") which, in particular, highlighted some misalignments between the systems that process personal data of customers such as to cause, for example, the incorrect attribution of telephone lines to the holders or the incorrect association between the holders and the contact details used by the Company.

Starting from these elements, this Office has carried out, pursuant to art. 10 of the Regulation of the Guarantor n. 1/2019 (in www.garanteprivacy.it, web doc. n. 9107633 ), a complex preliminary activity, formalized through requests for information addressed to the Company, inspections conducted at the same, starting from the month of November 2018 until the month of February 2019.

Further inspections were also carried out, including through the Special Unit for the Protection of Privacy and Technological Frauds of the Guardia di Finanza, between March and June 2019, at certain companies entrusted with the promotional activity of the Company itself (so-called "partners"), such as XX srl; XX srl; XX srl; XX srl; XX srl; XX srl.

Following these activities, on 25 July 2019, the Company was notified of the start of the proceeding, pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 5, of the Code, containing the invitation to submit any observations within 30 days of receipt of the same, granting the Company, at the request of the same, an extension to 10 October 2019 to provide feedback.

As part of the preliminary investigation, TIM's request to access, for defense purposes, the preliminary documentation was accepted, including that relating to the investigations carried out at its partners (see management decision of September 12, 2019). We then proceeded to examine TIM's defense brief dated October 10, 2019, the minutes of the hearing of November 5, 2019, as well as the additional supplementary defense documents dated November 12, 2019, albeit belatedly produced (beyond the deadline of October 10, 2019 ).

All the documentation provided by TIM is intended to be referred to in full and considered - for a complete representation of the cases, as well as for the benefit of the Company's right of defense - in the assessments contained in this provision.

2. RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION

At the end of the inspection activity and from the examination of the documentation produced by the Company, the Authority ascertained numerous and varied violations of the regulations on the protection of personal data referred to below and illustrated in detail in the following paragraphs. In particular:

- commercial contacts made during promotional campaigns aimed at "prospect" subjects (i.e. non-customer subjects), in the absence of the consent of the interested parties; numbers contacted up to 155 times in a month; lack of control by the Company on the work of its partners during the execution of the commercial campaigns (see par. 2.1.);

- incorrect management of exclusion lists from commercial campaigns (so-called "black list)"; failure to update the black lists on the basis of the denials expressed by the interested parties during the telephone commercial contact, which led to gaps regarding the accuracy and quality of the data in the corporate information systems; inconsistencies, not sufficiently clarified, of the data present in TIM's black lists compared to those of its partners' black lists; users included in the black lists many days after the expression of the refusal to marketing; utilities present in the partners' black lists but not included in those of the Company (see par. 2.1);

- promotional phone calls to numbers not present in the contact lists (so-called off-list), made by commercial partners in the absence of the interested parties' consent or other suitable legal basis; commercial calls to "off-list" numbers for which the Authority's provision of 22 June 2016 (in www.gpdp.it. web doc. no. 5255159 ) had prohibited TIM from processing for marketing purposes (see par. 2.2);

- promotional contacts made by the Company despite the exercise of the right of opposition by the interested parties or carried out in the context of service contacts or still without giving timely feedback to the interested parties or incorporating the exercise of the right of opposition into its systems (see par. 2.3);

- cases of retention, in the Company's CRM (Customer Relationship Management), of data relating to customers of other Operators, to whom TIM provides mere network and infrastructure services (OLO-Other Licensed Operators), for a time exceeding the limits required by law (10 years) and with visibility by customer care operators beyond the time limits established by company policies (5 years); cases of abusive use of these numbers for promotional purposes (see par. 2.4);

- acquisition of promotional consent within the "TIM Party" program in ways that do not ensure free manifestation (see par. 2.5);

- with respect to some Apps intended for customers, the release to data subjects of incorrect or transparent information on data processing, as well as methods of acquiring consent that do not comply with current legislation (see par. 2.6);

- use of paper forms for the collection of personal data with a request for a single consent for various purposes (see par. 2.7);

- unsuitable management of data breaches, both with regard to the promptness of the notification to the Authority and with regard to the measures put in place to reduce the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects; inadequate management by the Company of the systems that process personal data, in violation, in particular, of the principles of data accuracy, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the systems (see par. 2.8).

2.1. Promotional campaigns aimed at so-called "prospects", the management of black lists and denials expressed by interested parties during a commercial contact

With regard to the telemarketing campaigns for landline and mobile telephony offers carried out by the Company in the period July 2018-February 2019, aimed at customers (registered in the TIM Customer Base) and non-customers (so-called prospects), TIM stated that the list acquired by the Office during the inspection "contains the identifiers of the 650 campaigns carried out, with the validation date and the number of numbers associated with each of them" for a total of 50 million numbers present in the TIM lists (see . p. 9, feedback 8/3/2019).

Of these 650 campaigns, carried out in the aforementioned limited period, 484 were aimed at customers involving 15 million numbers, while the remaining 166, according to what TIM forecasted, were aimed at 13 million prospects reaching around 5.2 million numbers , since "Prospect campaigns" would have "an 'average reachability' threshold in the order of around 40%" (memorandum 10/10/2019). With specific reference to the commercial campaigns aimed at the aforementioned prospects, from a comparison between the so-called contactability lists (i.e. the lists of numbers that can be contacted for promotional purposes prepared and supplied to partners by TIM), and those associated with outgoing calls recorded on automated call systems of some call centers subject to inspections (in particular: XX,

- the calls made by the aforementioned call centers were associated with contact lists of TIM, which are not included in the lists provided by the Company to the Office; in this regard, TIM declared that “at the moment” it could “only assume that the contested discrepancies [were] essentially due to: the use of coding criteria of the distinct data flows by the Partners, which generate different nomenclatures; [to] the comparison made on partial lists available to Partners; (to) comparison with different campaign codes as the lists provided by TIM report the coding of the Marketing List ID, while those provided by the Partners include the Sales List ID" (memorandum 10/10/2019, cit.).

In this regard, it is therefore noted that TIM - as client of the processing in question - demonstrates that it does not have sufficient knowledge of the coding criteria of the flows used by the partners or of the methods of naming the contact lists, also for the purpose of its own better control ;

- the same telephone number, in the space of a month, was contacted up to 155 times and was recorded in various contact lists, in contrast with the same policies declared by TIM, according to which: "the callback rules given the partners envisage that each number in the list can be the subject of one useful contact per month, meaning by useful contact a telephone call with an answer with OK (adherence to the contractual proposal), KO (non-adherence), refusal (opposition to the treatment). For this reason, a number reached by a useful contact is no longer called up within the same campaign” (see minutes 02/05/2019, p. 4);

- in the "result" field of the promotional calls (made by the XX partner) there are wordings not recognized by the Company, according to which they would fall exclusively within the entrepreneurial autonomy of the same partner (e.g. "Rejection of CB TI NON-CONSENT CUSTOMERS"; "Recovery of Consent on ex-TIM and ex TI (OK)"; see memorandum 10/10/2019).

With specific reference to XX, the Company, in addition to admitting phone calls outside the contact lists (see infra par. 2.1), has also admitted the serious operational discrepancies in the frequency of promotional contacts made by this partner with respect to what is abstractly established in the own policies (the "conduct is openly in disregard of the production rules of TIM's contact lists for the execution of commercial campaigns"), denying its own responsibility, due to its alleged extraneousness to XX's operating methods (see memorandums 10/10/19 and 12/11/19 cited).

In this way, however, TIM - neglecting its fundamental role as client - has demonstrated that it does not have the necessary awareness of such conduct, nor that it has adequately supervised the partner's work.

The Company represented that, in order to exclude from the contact lists numbers belonging to non-customer interested parties (so-called "prospects") who have expressed their wish not to receive promotional communications, it uses two different black lists:

1. a first (“black list marketing”), manually fed and loaded on the campaign management system on the basis of the opposition to the treatment for promotional purposes sent by the interested parties to the company Customer Care; includes a total of 2,272,226 numbers, of which, however, a good 2,232,935 entered by the Company following the ban on data processing for promotional purposes issued by the Guarantor with the provision of 22 June 2016 (web doc. n. 5255159 ) and only 39,291, therefore, attributable to interested parties whose opposition to the treatment has been registered by the Company;

2. a second ("denial black list"), automatically fed into the campaign management system, consisting of the denial results (i.e. the "oppositions to processing for marketing purposes") expressed by so-called prospects during commercial phone calls made by partners ; includes 6,215 numbers.

In total therefore, the interested parties who, on the whole, appear to have expressed the will not to receive promotional communications from TIM and which this has proceeded to register are 45,506.

This quantitative figure - however relatively small especially considering the primary role of TIM in the national market of telephone operators - was not aligned with the much greater consistency of the overall exclusion lists used by TIM's commercial partners (for example, the black list acquired by XX Srl was made up of about 260,000 numbers).

As at 10 October 2019, the Company, with regard to the perplexities expressed by the Guarantor with the communication of the initiation of the proceeding of 25 July last, while providing some elements of clarification, declared itself "not fully able to clarify the reasons for the discrepancy found by the 'Authority between its own black lists and the analogous black lists used by the Partners" This, since "the black lists held by the Partners" would not fall within, according to TIM, "the framework of the denial management process defined by TIM" and "all denials received from Partners, when they operate on behalf of TIM, must necessarily be entered in Thin Client, the only company system responsible for managing denials expressed by subjects contacted by the Partner."

Furthermore, from the comparison between the aforementioned black lists of the Company and the results uploaded by the partners in the Company's systems and indicated as "denial" relating to campaigns carried out by the Company itself in the period identified above, as well as the black lists of the partners, although necessarily considering the possible different composition of these lists - it emerged that (Annex 6 to the response of 8/3/2019):

a) there are 3,442 commercial contacts with a "denial" outcome recorded by partners on the occasion of the aforementioned prospect campaigns;

b) of the aforementioned 3,442 contacts, only 1,026 are included in TIM's refusal black list, while the remaining 2,415 are not present in this list, which should be "consisting of the results of refusals (i.e. the 'oppositions to processing for marketing purposes ') expressed by prospects during commercial phone calls made by partners" (see page 8, reply 20.2.2019).

TIM, without providing suitable evidence, declared that these 2,415 denials were not included in its blacklists as they were recorded in the Company's CRM systems (which records the existence or otherwise of customer consent) precisely because they referable to customer numbers, with the exception of 5 numbers, which were discarded during loading.

In any case, while taking into account the many exceptions represented by the Company, it should be noted that some numbers, referring both to TIM landline or mobile customers and to prospects, were included in the contact lists many days after the refusal was expressed ( or more than 300 days later for some prospects; more than 200 days later for some landline or mobile network customers; see documents 12/11/2019).

The Company (see notes of March 8 and November 12, 2019) represented that "as a result of the ... anomaly in the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and consequently of the Denials Black List used by the marketing functions", 184 unique numbers were erroneously included in the contact lists for promotional campaigns. The Company - to certify the awareness of an inadequate management of denials - also pointed out its intention to introduce a new system, which would involve the recording of denials of active TIM fixed lines in the archive intended for the management of consent ( in this case the "DWH Consent": see supplementary note 12/11/2019);

c) 862 numbers present in the denial black list appear to have a "denial outcome" subsequent to the date of their inclusion, in contrast with what was indicated by the Company regarding the automatic exclusion from commercial campaigns of numbers present in the black lists (cf., for example , p. 8 feedback 20/2/2019 and pp. 3 and 5, report 5/2/2019). In this regard, the Company (see explanatory note 12/11/2019) represented that this is attributable "to the erroneous operations of some of its partners, who registered the" denial via THIN Client .... with even prolonged delays with respect to the "49 outcomes" (ie the outcome monitoring system) and thus "disregarded the procedures defined by TIM" in this regard. According to TIM "Once aware of these shortcomings, the Partners recovered the denial uploads via THIN Client in mass mode on the dates …. concentrated in the month of November 2018 for the denials acquired by XX and in the following months of December and January for those acquired by XX". Furthermore, TIM appears to have taken note of these delays in uploading the denials only on the occasion of the investigations initiated by the Guarantor in February 2019;

d) in the black list used by the partner XX Srl (acquired during the inspection of 28/3/2019), there were 1,645 objections to the treatment received during commercial telephone calls made on behalf of TIM; however, none of the related numbers was found on the Company's blacklist of denials;

e) in the black list used by the partner XX Srl there were almost 200,000 numbers that did not find a match in the Company's black list (see p. 2, minutes 23/4/2019); however, this is difficult to understand if one considers that the aforementioned partner is sole agent of TIM, and therefore the two lists should mostly correspond or in any case contain similar quantities;

f) in the black list used by XX, referring to denials expressed during commercial telephone calls made on behalf of TIM, there were 2,401 numbers; however, of these only 3 were present in the TIM marketing black list and none was present in TIM's denial black list. This is difficult to understand as these numbers had to all be included in this list, precisely as denials expressed during the Company's promotional campaigns;

g) in the black list sent by TIM to XX (see attachment 11, report of 05/07/2019) there are 22,296 numbers; however, of these, only 19,488 are on the marketing black list and 6 are on the refusal black list provided by TIM to the Authority.

In truth, the aforementioned differences can be considered attributable only in part to the different criteria for the composition and implementation of the black lists or to the different denomination/classification of the lists and the results of the contacts (see TIM brief 10/10/2019 and explanatory note 12 /11/2019, cit.) that TIM does not appear to have agreed with its partners or to the existence of principals other than TIM, for some of these partners. Precisely the use of different criteria and denomination means that in this case - in addition to incorrect practices implemented by the partners with reference to the methods of managing the denials - the failure to adequately implement by the Company itself of shared management procedures also emerges,

Furthermore, the events in question highlight a partially fallacious functioning of the automated system for exclusion from the contact lists, confirmed by various anomalies on the systems admitted on several occasions by the Company (see notes dated 8/3/2019, 3/ 4/2019 and 12/11/2019), which have not guaranteed a correct and coherent representation, in the computer systems dedicated to this, of the negative will of the interested parties, involving, depending on the cases represented above, a processing of personal data for of marketing carried out without complying with the legitimate exercise of the rights of the interested parties, in particular that of opposition.

2.2. Calls to users not present in TIM's contact lists (so-called "unlisted calls")

Numerous complaints about the persistence of unsolicited promotional calls concerned users not included in TIM's contact lists (the so-called "off list").

In this regard, the Company declared that "...partners are contractually prohibited from using contact lists autonomously found and not authorized by TIM", however "... during useful contact with the line ... present in the contact list provided by TIM, it may happen that the person contacted requests to be called back on another number or indicates another person in the household to whom to contact for the offer in question, providing the number [so-called references]…". Again with reference to "unlisted calls", TIM stated that these "...cannot be known to the Company as they are carried out by the partners through their telephone/CRM systems..." except when "the customer/prospect accepts the commercial offer , [which] is compulsorily tracked in TIM's 'Verbal Order' system" (hereinafter also "VO") (see pp. 7 and 8, match 14/3/2019). This is true whether the number contacted derives from the contact lists provided by the Company, or if it falls within the so-called "off list".

The Company has therefore not been able to quantify the "off-list" calls made by its business partners, nor to provide the list of numbers contacted, and has quantified, only partially and indirectly, this information, providing the numbers not present in the contact lists delivered to partners who, in the period 1 July 2018- 28 February 2019, resulted, on the campaign management system associated with a verbal orderl whose presence only reveals the commercial contacts made which ended with the signing of a contract, ratified precisely by the Verbal Order. Therefore, "... the Company has applied a calculation methodology based on the comparison between the information stored in the "Verbal Order" system with respect to the numbers contained in the contact lists provided to the partners, being able to calculate only the "off-list" associated with a verbalized order …”, i.e. in total, 116,461, and a good 184,655 starting from 1 March 2018 (see TIM briefing 10/10/2019). Also in order to understand the extent of the phenomenon of "off-list" contacts, it may be useful to point out that the Verbal Order number provides a default indication of the underlying calls: for example, during the inspections, XX stated that , on customers present in the customer base, the number of contracts stipulated represents approximately 9% of the promotional calls made in the case of upselling campaigns, while only 3% in the case of campaigns aimed at activating new lines. However, this participation rate is generally even lower in the case of promotional campaigns aimed at "prospect" subjects due to the lesser accuracy of the data (e.g. numbers that are no longer active or subjects who have more advantageous season tickets than those offered ).

Furthermore, in the contracts entered into by TIM with its partners, it emerged that the assignment to carry out promotional telephone contacts concerned not only contact lists provided by TIM, but also so-called "lead" numbers or numbers acquired by the partners following the request of the interested parties to be contacted again to receive a specific commercial offer (see art. 2 "Subject" of the TIM-3G spa contract, attached to the inspection reports), while the contract does not contain instructions and organizational and technical measures with specific regard to the particular category of " off the list” represented by the so-called “referenced” CDs. Nonetheless, the Company could not fail to be aware of the fact that the partners made "off-list" contacts outside the "lead" numbers, as this was concretely detectable by the misalignment of the numbers associated with the Minutes Orders, uploaded by the partners in the Company's systems, compared to the numbers entered in the contact lists, provided by TIM to its partners. Indeed, during the inspections, only two partners declared that the "off-list" contacts came from lead lists; in the other cases, it emerged that the "off-list" contacts made concerned instead the so-called "referenced" subjects.

The analysis of the so-called "off-list" and black-list numbers held by the Company also highlighted the following:

- 1,504 numbers contacted were present in the marketing black list at the time the verbal order was recorded (and therefore at the time the commercial telephone contact was made);

- of these 1,504, 1,464 were contacted despite having been included by the Company in the marketing black list following the aforementioned provision of 22 June 2016, which - as highlighted above - had prohibited their processing for marketing purposes;

- 15 users had expressed a refusal to marketing before registering the Verbal Order (and therefore before making the commercial telephone contact).

With regard to the aforementioned 1,504 numbers, the Company assumed that these "were autonomously found by the Partners with the mechanism of leads and references, and then used for the purpose of commercial contact on the basis ... of the consent provided by the interested party himself or of the balancing of subsisting interest for the references", but did not provide any further elements, nor did it document this assumption, as required by the principle of accountability.

Furthermore, since 1,464 users are included by TIM in its marketing black list following the aforementioned provision of June 22, 2016, in order not to incur in a repeated violation of the aforementioned provision, the Company itself should have provided this black list to its partners, supervising the activity of its partners, in order to be able to allow an appropriate match with the data acquired or in any case in the possession of the partners, and thus avoid further unwanted contact.

In order to investigate the so-called "off-list" phenomenon, the Authority also carried out inspections at some partners.

In operational practice, the method of manually dialing the numbers subject to contact was, in fact, permitted, a method which was not regulated by TIM in the contracts with its partners in order to limit possible abuses. It has been found that, in general, the outgoing call management systems used by call centers keep track of these calls, an element that has allowed the Authority to carry out some checks with respect to the data provided by TIM regarding the aforementioned Verbal Orders , ascertaining once again evident quantitative inconsistencies (see notice of initiation of the procedure of 25 July 2019). In particular, the data provided by TIM regarding the Verbal Orders (see

The checks carried out also highlighted that - with reference to some call centers (XX; XX; XX; XX) - numbers of "referenced" subjects were contacted although in the presence of a previous opposition to the processing expressed by the interested party, as well as numbers entered in the marketing black list following the aforementioned provision of 22 June 2016 (in particular, this was found for: 258 "referenced" calls made by XX; 250 "referenced" calls made by XX; as well as one "referenced" call made by XX) .

It appears evident that TIM - while knowing and accepting the phenomenon of calls to "referenced" users, from which it has constantly collected the related profits, as attested by the Verbal Orders mentioned above - has not regulated it with specific and detailed instructions in order to guarantee compliance with current legislation (in these terms, see also note XX of 10/18/2019). This has led to the processing of personal data for marketing purposes carried out in the absence of a proven and suitable legal prerequisite (as it does not result that a suitable consent has been acquired for them, such as for example by proxy, email, telephone call recording), or without taking into account the right of opposition previously expressed by the interested parties.

With specific regard to the Verbal Orders - as well as the composition of the contact lists - the Company, after an alleged discussion with the partners on November 7, 2019, provided elements (such as the "use of separate data stream coding criteria by of the Partners, which generate different nomenclatures"; the comparison made on partial lists available to the Partners"; the different denomination of the type of "off-list" contacts, referred by some partners also to "Lead" users, acquired directly from the same partners, and not only to "referenced" users; the different concept of VO, used in practice), on the basis of which the Company believes it can reasonably circumscribe and reduce the phenomenon in question (see brief 10/10/2019 and explanatory note 12 /11/2019, cit.). However,these elements do not appear to fully and punctually justify the considerable diversity of the quantitative data, in particular of the VO.

Even today, the management of lists and VOs - as well as "off-list" contacts - by TIM is not adequately demonstrated and reported, also due to obvious differences in the criteria used and not shared with partners, so much so that the Company itself has come to represent that "the punctual checks are still underway to numerically compare and check with the Partners in question the lists of off-lists and related Verbal Orders" and to report "that the interventions started .... and represented (in memorandum 12.11 .19) will make it possible to adopt control methods for off-listers based on more structured feedback and envisaged by contractual obligations”, as proof of the gaps that have emerged.

2.3. Additional unsolicited promotional communications that emerged from the feedback provided by TIM regarding reports and complaints and management of the rights of data subjects

Following the analysis of the findings provided by TIM (6/12/2018; 13/2/2019 and 1/3/2019) regarding the requests made by the Authority on 7 November 2018 and 14 January 2019, relating to multiple reports ; to some complaints (TIM findings 25/10/2018; 8/1/2019; 5 and 16/9/2019), as well as supplementing the aforementioned inspections (findings 8/3/2019, 20/3/2019 and 2/ 5/2019), the following emerged:

1) for almost all of the reports and complaints, TIM denied unwanted promotional contacts, stating that the reporting users' users were not involved in the lists used for promotional purposes, as well as the calling users were not involved in its sales force;

2) nevertheless, the following reports were found to be founded; in particular the Company:

to. with regard to XX, despite the opposition exercised by the latter, he admitted having mistakenly entered him in the contact lists and having actually contacted him, through the XX srl call center;

b. with reference to XX, despite the opposition exercised by the latter, he represented that he had continued to include him in the contact lists and therefore to call him, as XX srl, the call center responsible for the call, did not acknowledge "due to internal errors at .... back office” the negative will of the interested party “in the marketing systems”, so that the user in question was included in subsequent contact lists (see TIM reply 2/13/2019);

3) with regard to the requests of other interested parties (XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; XX), the call centers entrusted with the execution of the promotional calls have admitted (as, moreover, TIM itself: v memorandum of 10 October 2019) unwanted contacts by alleging, generically, alleged "oversights" or typing errors of the telephone user to be contacted or occasional "manual" contact initiatives, unauthorized, carried out by one's own staff and not further detailed and clarified (see also specific feedback from: XX srl and XX srl of 30/1/2019: XX srl and XX srls of 30/11/2018; XX spa of 5/12/2018; XX srls of 19/3/2019 - the latter with a total of 4 reports, subject to a separate reply; all attached to the aforementioned TIM replies).A generic explanation is also provided by XX spa, which alleges, to motivate a further unwanted promotional contact, "a duplication of data on (its) CRM (technical error) ascertained following the control of the reports ..." (reference XX 22/ 11/2018, attached to the TIM reply dated 6/12/2018, cit.);

4) in the case of the so-called "hybrid" telephone calls, the promotional contact made by the Company was made, despite the already expressed refusal of processing for promotional purposes, in the context of "intra-contractual" or in any case "service" communications (initially case, reporting XX, by telephone call with operator: see TIM response 6/12/2018, cit.; in a second case, complainant XX, by text message: see TIM response 8/1/2019, cit.). In this second case, according to the Company, the late response to the reporting entity's request and the inclusion in the black list - in the face of multiple objections made by the complainant, also by means of documented communication by certified email - would have occurred for a no better detailed "...incorrect operation by customer care operators";

5) the following critical issues also emerged with regard to the requests presented by the interested parties, with particular reference to the opposition to processing for promotional purposes:

a) the lack of a written or otherwise documented response to the requests of several interested parties (XX; XX; XX; XX: see response 2/5/2019); failure to respond to requests received by certified mail (see for notification of XX: response 2/5/2019, cit.; see for complaint of XX: response 25/10/2018). In the first case, the request "is not traced in the systems ... for archiving the correspondence received"; in the second case, an "alleged loss of information ... in the process of transfer from the certified e-mail to the paper documentation ..."). A similar lack was found for: XX's report, whose request was printed and sent to the outsourcer in charge of 'typing', but not found due to a problem relating to said procedure (response 03/20/2019, cited ); for reporting XX, handled, with inclusion in the black list, only on the occasion of the response provided to the request for information formulated by the Authority (responses on 8/3/19 and 5/11/2018); as well as for XX's complaint, in relation to which several requests formulated to the Company - although sent several times via pec and ordinary e-mail - are not detected in the systems due to technical anomalies or managed late and whose opposition to promotional treatment is entered into the system only after a period greater than 4 months from the originally formulated request (references 09/05/2019 and 10/10/2019);

b) the acknowledgment of opposition requests, but without effective implementation in the corporate systems, of the refusal to process expressed by additional interested parties (XX; XX; XX: see acknowledgment 2/5/2019, cit.).

In the face of some of the aforementioned critical issues submitted to TIM by this Authority, the Company (see memorandum of 10/10/2019), pointed out that "the integration of the text of the i-sms with information about the ways in which the customer can object to the receipt of the aforementioned messages.

Such conduct once again highlights the making of unwanted promotional calls in the absence of suitable consent or even in the presence of an express refusal by the interested parties.

2.4. The processing of customer data called "OLO" (Other Licensed Operator)

During the inspections, it emerged that personal data belonging to non-customers were stored in the Company's CRM (name, surname or company name; tax code or VAT number; telephone number; address; contact details).

In particular, in relation to some data breach events, one of which had involved the personal data of a "person" who had never belonged to TIM customers, the Company represented that the processing of the related data was necessary as the same interested party, being a customer of another telephone operator (Other Licensed Operator - OLO/Alternative Network Operator), he was able to use a "wholesale line rental" (WLR) service, sold by TIM to OLOs and offered by the latter to its customers.

The Company also declared that "the general category of "customers" also includes customers of residential landline telephone services to which customers of WLR services are also assimilated. For this type of interested party, the general criteria for the availability of personal data are defined which provide [...] for the visibility of the data for 5 years from the termination (unless the cases in derogation, e.g. disputes, specified in the policy) for the purposes carried out by part of customer care" and "the maximum availability for 10 years for the purposes of tax management and tax obligations (unless there are exceptions, e.g. disputes), including the retention of invoices for the service provided." (see p. 9, response of 12/13/2018 and of 12/14/2018, p. 8).

Instead, the results of the inspections showed – differently from the provisions of the aforementioned TIM policy – ​​that access to OLO customer data was allowed to customer care operators even beyond the 5-year period. In this regard, the Company specified that only following the inspections did it proceed to modify "the visibility of the personal data of the customers of the WLR services by the customer care operators" by inhibiting the same "the visibility of the personal data of the customers of WLR services if ceased for more than 5 years.” (see p. 8, response 12/13/2018, cit.).

Furthermore, the presence of a whistleblower's personal data in the Company's CRM (ie the customer management system) was verified, even though more than 10 years had passed since the date of termination of the contract with TIM. In this regard, the Company declared that the "...customer data remains visible to TIM Customer Care operators as long as the underlying telephone line is active with another Operator (OLO) and for the following 5 years from termination (technical deactivation) of the line" (see response of 14/3/2019, p. 6). However, for the line in question - which has been under the management of another telephone operator for over 10 years - no WLR service was found to be active (see report attached to the response sent on 05/02/2019).

Moreover, the result relating to the presence in TIM's CRM of 23,298 assignees of WLR lines managed by another OLO (referring to 23,428 telephone lines overall), is of dubious compatibility with the legitimate purposes of the processing attributable to TIM, taking into account that - according to the provisions of the online portal of the Company, "the WLR service allows Operators to virtualize the customer's connection to their network and to directly manage the customer with regard to" various contractual functions or in any case connected to the execution of the service. Furthermore, in the manual of procedures relating to this service (Annex G to the reference of 12/13/2018), it is indicated that "The

Although the Company has declared its intention to reorganize the CRM which would also lead to reviewing the data of OLO customers (memorandum 10/10/2019), to date these data are stored in the Company's CRM beyond the 10-year limit. This represents an excessively large period of time which finds no justification in the light of the alleged aims pursued by TIM.

From another point of view, as a result of internal audits conducted by the Company, the same declared that "anomalous behaviors emerged in accessing and consulting the database relating to 'faults' allegedly by OLO employees ... object of complaint to the Public Prosecutor's Office Republic ... on 1 October 2019, so that it can carry out the investigative investigations deemed necessary ..." (see note of 12/11/2019).

With the same note, the Company represented that, "with reference to the 23,428 lines corresponding to active lines at the date of OLO "native" customers for the WLR service ... only 2,410 were included in the contact lists of prospect campaigns for the period from 1 July 2018 to 28 February 2019 …”; of the 2410 users mentioned, 414 would have been "acquired from the telephone directory and verified with respect to the Opposition Register and 2 instead, would have subsequently returned to TIM" (see brief 10/10/2019). Nevertheless, the Company was unable to substantiate and prove - for the 414 users - the aforementioned verification activity and - for the remaining 2 - the circumstance of the possible acquisition of valid consent for promotional purposes (such as, for example: copy of paper or online forms audio recording;

(i) the numbers of lines discontinued and subsequently reactivated and assigned to a different user (OLO customer) to activate a new system with the WLR service ... and (ii) the active lines migrated for the transfer of the TIM customer to an OLO. As a result of this anomaly, 1,995 numbers assigned to OLO customers and corresponding to numbers previously used by ex-TIM customers with consent to contact were included in the Lists of prospect campaigns. This anomaly was corrected by eliminating from the extractions made by CRM ... all the lines registered to OLO customers" (see note 12/11/2019). In other words, the aforesaid anomaly led, with reference to the promotional campaigns carried out by the Company towards former customers, to the inclusion in the contact lists of numbers belonging to customers of the Company, then deactivated and subsequently reassigned, as available, to customers of other operators. This has resulted in the unlawful processing of data relating to the telephone numbers of customers of other operators, as the commercial contact took place in the absence of the prior consent of the interested parties or other suitable legal prerequisites. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the quantification of the phenomenon (1,995 numbers) refers only to the promotional campaigns carried out by TIM in the period July 2018-February 2019, while the anomaly in question reasonably concerned a much longer period of time. This has resulted in the unlawful processing of data relating to the telephone numbers of customers of other operators, as the commercial contact took place in the absence of the prior consent of the interested parties or other suitable legal prerequisites. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the quantification of the phenomenon (1,995 numbers) refers only to the promotional campaigns carried out by TIM in the period July 2018-February 2019, while the anomaly in question reasonably concerned a much longer period of time. This has resulted in the unlawful processing of data relating to the telephone numbers of customers of other operators, as the commercial contact took place in the absence of the prior consent of the interested parties or other suitable legal prerequisites. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the quantification of the phenomenon (1,995 numbers) refers only to the promotional campaigns carried out by TIM in the period July 2018-February 2019, while the anomaly in question reasonably concerned a much longer period of time.

In addition, the arguments represented by the Company are not adequately substantiated in documents. In some cases (213 numbers and 638 commercial contacts) the date of activation of the WLR service was in fact more than 5 years earlier than the date on which the commercial campaign was carried out: after 5 years, any consent to marketing provided by the ex - terminated customer - incorrectly attributed, according to the Company, to a different subject, OLO customer - should have been considered - on the basis of the same TIM policy - no longer valid for carrying out the commercial contact.

The conduct described above denotes unlawful processing as it is carried out in the absence of suitable consent from the interested parties as well as inconsistent with the principles of limitation of retention and the obligation to guarantee and demonstrate compliance with the data protection regulations in compliance with the principle of accountability (see infra par. 3.8).

2.5. The “TIM Party” online program

As revealed by the analysis of the website www.tim.it, the Company offers its customers the possibility of joining the "TIM Party" program, which allows access to advantages and discounts, as well as participation in prize competitions, representing to the same that "If you have not released it yet, you will be asked for your consent for marketing purposes by Telecom". Therefore, in order to access this program and the connected benefits, the customer must give consent to the promotional purposes. Moreover, the number of customers who have joined this program is very high (about 2,000,000 telephone lines, up to December 2018: see minutes 5 and 6/2/2019).

In this regard, TIM represented (see memorandum of 10/10/2019) that "the dedicated offers do not constitute a promotional activity ... but rather the specific function and purpose of the program itself, i.e. the so-called object of the contract. .. Thus, the TIM customer who intends to join the program makes a conscious and informed choice and expresses, through registration, his/her willingness to receive communications relating to offers, benefits and competitions, which represent the sole purpose of TIM Party . For this reason, enrollment in TIM Party necessarily entails the modification of the consents registered in the CRM, since enrollment in the Program is ictu oculi incompatible with the denial of commercial offers...". The Company, in the same office, revealing some reasonable doubts about the legitimacy of this practice, he added that "If this indication is not shared, it should be noted in the alternative that the 'transfer of consent' in the face of advantages remains in any case a free choice of the consumer, not expressly precluded by the Regulation.” and he referred to an alleged, and unidentified, opinion requested on the matter by this Authority.

In this way, by making participation in the "TIM Party" loyalty program subject to the release of consent to processing for promotional activities, the Company affects the will of the interested parties with regard to the (generalized and undifferentiated) receipt of promotional communications by the same and with the most diverse methods (automated and traditional). This, although the aforementioned treatment is not necessary for the purposes of executing the contract stipulated by the interested party by joining the program, which has as its object the achievement of prizes and discounts. Nor is it dutifully clarified in the information provided to the interested parties that this expression of will automatically entails the modification of any refusals expressed by the same prior to joining the Program. Therefore,

2.6. Apps made available to customers

The Company offers its customers the possibility of installing certain online applications on their mobile devices. During the inspection it emerged that, in particular, "My TIM", "TIM Personal" and "TIM Smart Kid" provided that the user, in order to be able to use the various functions provided, at the time of installation of the same, must 'accept ' together with the "terms of service" also the "privacy information", which however referred to promotional purposes, geolocation and communication to third parties for promotional purposes.

Considering the very high number of customers who have installed these applications (7,000,000, "My TIM"; 400,000, "TIM Personal"; 10,000, "TIM Smart Kid": see attachment 1 to the report dated 6/2/2019 cit .), and that for a whistleblower (XX) the enhancement of marketing consent emerged despite the original refusal expressed in the contract, the Company, upon specific request, denied that the acceptance of the "terms of service" together with the '"privacy information" would lead to a change in the expressions of will previously expressed by customers when activating the Sims (see report 02/06/2019).

With regard to information, TIM has denied using the data collected with these Apps to carry out the aforementioned promotional, geolocation and communication activities to third parties for promotional purposes. With specific reference to the "My TIM" App, however, the Company subsequently produced a new revised information to the Authority in light of the criticality highlighted above (see minutes 6, 14 and 28/2/2019; as well as response 20/2/ 2018).

More generally, the same - in invoking her "good faith", in her opinion, proven precisely by the following changes made to the configuration of the "My TIM", "TIM Personal" and "TIM Smart Kid" Apps - represented that (see memorandum 10/10/2019):

- "the activation of the Apps in question does not require express consent for use nor does it allow the modification of consent for the customer's marketing purposes, which can be managed by the same through the channels relating to the management of the TIM line (ie through the My TIM web portal and, from August 2019, via the My TIM App)”;

- to have "acknowledged the findings raised by the Authority regarding the potential textual ambiguity of the information in relation to the possible effects deriving from the installation of the Apps in question, and proceeded to modify", in the period between February and August 2019, " consequently the text of the information itself";

- to have modified, in line with the critical issues that emerged during the inspection, also the procedure relating to the "acceptance of the Terms & Conditions and acknowledgment of the Privacy Information", by setting "the necessary selection of two separate buttons".

In addition, the "My TIM" Apps; "TIM Personal"; "TIM Smart Kid", at the time of the investigations, did not provide for the acquisition of a free and specific consent of the interested parties for the processing of personal data for multiple purposes and multiple processing operations (including, in particular, activities "statistics"; "service sizing"; "diagnostics"), which are heterogeneous and not all apparently necessary for the services provided to data subjects through the Apps.

In summary, with regard to the Apps indicated above, a correct and transparent treatment is therefore not carried out; the lack of acquisition of a free and specific consent of the users in relation to each single purpose pursued also emerged. 

2.7. Forms used for the "self-certification of possession of a prepaid line"

The Authority received a report highlighting the administration to the reporting person of the aforementioned forms by TIM, where, for various processing purposes (statistics; promotional; profiling), a single indistinct consent was requested. In this regard, the Company represented that: "the self-certification form in question (ed. March 2009), used by the Customer Care Business, had not been updated and therefore contained contents that were no longer adequate, including the declaration of privacy consents ... it is not possible to trace the number of business customers who have subscribed to this form, as there is no specific tracking for this type of form (used only for the registration of the prepaid mobile line to a third party other than the holder of the business mobile telephone contract) ”,

The Company subsequently presented (on 10/10/2019) documentation relating to new modules responsible for the same function and already distributed, presenting the request for free and specific consent based on the different purposes of the processing pursued, noting that the data collected by the reporting and by the other interested parties would not have been used for the purposes indicated in the information (including promotional ones), thus confirming, however, the collection of an unsuitable consent.

2.8. Data breach management - anomalies and misalignments relating to customer personal data

Based on the results of the inspections as well as the examination of some of the most significant data breach notifications presented by the Company, it was found that:

- in some cases, the Company belatedly identified and correctly managed the incidents of violation, activating the DPO only a few months after the detection of the problem, as well as carrying out the communications to this Authority prescribed by current legislation;

- the systems that process customers' personal data frequently encounter "misalignments", "anomalies" and "wrong associations".

These events appear to have been the cause of data inconsistencies, which have resulted, for example, in the incorrect attribution of telephone lines to the holders or the incorrect association between holders and contact details (see, for example, data breach no. 170, 171, 175 and 186). This resulted in unlawful communications of personal data to subjects other than the interested party, for example at the time of sending the invoice and the telephone and telematic traffic data associated with it. In addition, customers have accessed data from other parties, displayed in their self-care area of ​​the customer portal.

The misalignments, capable of jeopardizing the accuracy of the data processed, also appear to have had an impact on the privacy consents reported in the customer data sheets. In this regard, during the inspections, it was found that there was an inconsistency between the privacy consents reported in a customer's personal data and the data that can be inferred from an examination of the consent history (see page 5, report 14 /2/2019; p. 7, minutes 2/28/2019).

The Company specified that the indicated misalignment concerned a further 2,894,292 lines and occurred following the occurrence of an "anomaly" during a massive remediation activity, which involved all the mobile lines of TIM's consumer customers, carried out, starting from 14/1/2019, on the DWH-Consensus system (see feedback 20/3/2019).

Therefore, for these lines, from the date the reclamation was carried out to 18/3/2019 (the date on which the Company declared that it had resolved the anomaly), there was an inconsistency between the consents in the personal data sheet and the status of the latest consensus change. Therefore, the expression of the last modification of the consent made by the interested party, during the indicated period, was not correctly "propagated" in the consumer CRM, whose personal details continued to show the values ​​of the consents prior to the last expression of will.

An anomaly also concerned the denials black list, in particular affecting the date of inclusion of the numbers in the black list itself. The Company appears to have become aware of this only when, during the aforementioned telemarketing inspections, it had to explain the reasons why almost half of the numbers included in the aforementioned exclusion list had the same date of entry (see page 2 , minutes 2/28/2019; feedback 4/3/2019). The Company, specifying that the software malfunction had started on 30/1/2018 and had lasted until 14/2/2019, ensured that it had "structurally resolved the anomaly with effect from 8/3/19... ”, and to have blacklisted “all denials 'blocked' and only temporarily not resulting on all databases and, therefore, the blacklist results, currently, complete and correct", thus admitting that this black list previously presented some inconsistencies in the data (see memorandum of 10/10/2019). In the same memorandum, the Company highlighted that these misalignments did not "result in the destruction, loss, modification, unauthorized disclosure or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, but only the misalignment between different databases and /o interfaces", since "the updated and exact data were in any case present in the DWH-Consensus, i.e. from the master system on which all the activities conducted by TIM are based by virtue of the privacy consents of the customers ..". It is also noted that this last statement is partially in contrast with what was represented by the Company, in the memorandum dated November 12, 2019, in which it stated that: "the anomaly already represented to the Guarantor in the Response of 3 April 2019, which temporarily blocked the updating of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and which the anomaly was restored starting from 15 February 2019, some denials were registered in the DWH Consent Prospect as of that date. [...] As already represented in the Memorandum and in the Response of 8 March 2019", according to TIM, there would have been an "anomaly in the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and consequently of the Black List Denials used by the marketing functions..." from which it would seem to deduce that anomalies relating to the status of the consents of the interested parties were also present in the DWH Consent system. which temporarily blocked the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and which the anomaly was restored as of February 15, 2019, some denials were recorded in the DWH Consensus Prospect starting from that date. [...] As already represented in the Memorandum and in the Response of 8 March 2019", according to TIM, there would have been an "anomaly in the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and consequently of the Black List Denials used by the marketing functions..." from which it would seem to deduce that anomalies relating to the status of the consents of the interested parties were also present in the DWH Consent system. that temporarily blocked the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and that the anomaly was restored as of February 15, 2019, some denials were recorded in the DWH Consensus Prospect starting from that date. [...] As already represented in the Memorandum and in the Response of 8 March 2019", according to TIM, there would have been an "anomaly in the update of the DWH Consensus Prospect archive and consequently of the Black List Denials used by the marketing functions..." from which it would seem to deduce that anomalies relating to the status of the consents of the interested parties were also present in the DWH Consent system.

The aforesaid anomalies reveal incorrect and unsuitable treatment to guarantee the accuracy of personal data, as well as the integrity and confidentiality of the systems, and therefore the failure to adopt adequate technical and organizational measures for these purposes.

3. LEGAL ASSESSMENTS

With reference to the factual profiles highlighted above, also on the basis of the declarations of the Company for which it responds pursuant to art. 168 of the Code, the following assessments are made in relation to the profiles concerning the regulations on the protection of personal data.

3.1. Calls made to "unlisted " users

With specific regard to the telephone calls made to "unlisted" users by some TIM partner call centers, it emerged that "referenced" subjects were contacted, on the basis of a constant operating practice attributable to a conscious corporate choice by the Company and not referable to exceptional unauthorized initiatives undertaken - without the knowledge of the client - and the call center in charge of promotional activities - by the staff (see par. 2.1).

In this regard, TIM should have, directly or through its partners, subjected the information collected on the so-called "referenced" CDs to checks, especially in relation to the origin and concrete methods of data acquisition (in particular, the existence of the necessary prior consent for promotional purposes or the presence of the user in a public directory and, at the same time, his failure to register in the public register of oppositions, see provision of 18 April 2018, web doc. n. 9358243). In fact, the status of "referenced" cannot replace the necessary fulfillment of the obligation of prior acquisition of a specific, documented and unequivocal consent from the interested party. This is because the referring third party is not (as a rule) entitled to give any valid consent on behalf of the interested party receiving the call (see provision of 26 July 2018, web doc. n. 9358243 ) .

In addition, it turned out that the "off-list" users contacted also included 1,464 users who, in compliance with the aforementioned provision of 22 June 2016, had been placed on the black list and therefore could not have been contacted for promotional purposes.

Furthermore, it cannot invoke as a legal basis - as TIM did, moreover, only with the note of May 13, 2019 and the brief of October 10, 2019, trying to move away from what has already emerged and crystallized during the inspection - that of the "legitimate interest ” of TIM and its partners to marketing activities, perhaps together with the presumed interest of the “referencing” subject, which involves the friend or relative in the promotion.

In this regard, it should first of all be reiterated that TIM has not detailed or demonstrated the status of "referenced" for the individual users contacted "off the list" (including, among the elements, the origin and exact methods, even temporal, of acquiring data in question), but limited itself to assuming, generically and without distinction, that they could be "referenced" users.

It should also be highlighted that the legitimate interest, pursuant to art. 6, par. 1, lit. f), of the Regulation - already provided for both by the repealed directive 95/46/EC, as well as by the Code in force prior to the amendments made by Legislative Decree no. 101/2018 (legislative decree n. 196/2003, art. 24, paragraph 1, letter g) - cannot substitute - in general - the consent of the interested party as a legal basis for marketing. Indeed, the Regulation itself – as already the directive 95/46/CE in the art. 7, paragraph 1, lett. f) - admits it only "provided that the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject who require the protection of personal data do not prevail". Furthermore, the same Regulation (see recital 47), with specific regard to the applicability of the legitimate interest to marketing requires - with a rigorous and prudent approach - that "the reasonable expectations nourished by the interested party on the basis of his relationship with the data controller are duly taken into account. For example, such legitimate interests could exist where a relevant and appropriate relationship exists between the data subject and the controller, such as when the data subject is a customer or employed by the controller. In any case, the existence of legitimate interests requires a careful assessment also with regard to the possibility that the interested party, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, can reasonably expect that a treatment will take place for this purpose. The interests and fundamental rights of the data subject may in particular outweigh the interests of the controller where personal data are processed in circumstances where data subjects cannot reasonably expect further processing of the personal data. The application of the legal basis of legitimate interest therefore presupposes the concrete prevalence (on the basis of a balance left to the owner, but always assessable by the Supervisory Authority) of the latter over the rights, freedoms and mere interests of the interested parties (specifically , the recipients of promotional communications not assisted by consent). In this comparison, it is necessary to weigh carefully the impact of the processing, which is intended to be carried out on these rights, freedoms and interests (including, in the case of marketing, first of all, the right to data protection and the right to individual peace of mind of the data subject are recognizable, see, most recently, Annual Report 2018, p. 107; also provision 22 May 2018, doc. web no.8995274), and it is also necessary, in compliance with the principles of responsibility and transparency, the concrete implementation of adequate measures to guarantee the rights of the interested parties, such as in particular that of opposition (in this sense, see already the Opinion of the Group Art. 29 , n. 6/2014, on the concept of legitimate interest - WP 217, p. 35: the institution of legitimate interest "guarantees greater protection of the interested party; in particular, it establishes that not only the rights and fundamental freedoms of the data subject, but also his "interest" - mere and unqualified. ... all categories of interests of the data subject must be taken into account and weighed against those of the controller,insofar as they are relevant within the scope of the Directive").

Moreover, “the data controller cannot …. retroactively resort to the legitimate interest basis in case of problems with the validity of the consent. Since he has the obligation to communicate [in the information note released to the data subject] the legitimate basis at the time of personal data collection, the data controller must have decided on the legitimate basis before data collection" (so see Guidelines of the Art. 29 Group on consent pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, 10 April 2018, WP 259 rev.01). 

Therefore - if the conditions outlined above for the legitimate interest do not apply and with the exception of the cases of the so-called "soft spam" (art. 130, paragraph 4, Code), as well as the "opt-out" system for the data present in the lists public - it must be assumed that the general rule to be followed for processing for promotional purposes is that of the prior informed, free, specific and documented consent of the interested parties (as also underlined by the Guidelines of the Guarantor on promotional matters, 4 July 2013, cit. , and even earlier by the general provision of 19 January 2011, "Prescriptions for the processing of personal data for marketing purposes, through the use of the telephone with operator, following the establishment of the public register of oppositions", web doc. No. 1784528, that - in recalling the need, also with respect to the users of businesses or freelance professionals available in public directories or registers, the further stringent limit, in compliance with the principle of 'purpose', of the strict and direct functionality between telephone promotional offers and specific object of the entrepreneurial/professional activity - clarified that, apart from the aforementioned cases, the processing for promotional purposes of the "data contained in databases, however formed, is permitted only in compliance with the general principles of the Code and therefore only with the release of suitable information and the acquisition of specific consent…..”); principles, as known, confirmed and indeed made more stringent by the Regulation through the provisions of articles 6, 7, 12 and 13.

With regard to "off-list" users (in particular, those "referenced"), the "general" responsibility for the promotional treatment carried out must be ascribed - differently from what is believed by TIM - also to the latter, also in the light of what the Group has found Art. 29, with regard to the concept of data controller, which "is functional, ie aimed at attributing responsibility where there is an effective influence: it is therefore based on a factual rather than a formal analysis". In particular, for the purpose of identifying the ownership actually exercised, it is also necessary to examine "non-contractual elements, such as the real control exercised by one party, the image given to the interested parties and the legitimate expectations of the latter on the basis of this visibility" (cf. Opinion No. 1/2010).

Indeed, based on the elements collected, the Company in fact constitutes the client on whose behalf the telemarketing activity is carried out (including that of finding and contacting the "unlisted"), primarily on the basis of the contract but also in the operating practice of the call centres, constantly committed to using the name and image of TIM, as well as the scripts of the promotional messages of the same Company; moreover, the same is clearly the subject to whom the economic advantages deriving from the contracts stipulated with the interested parties who adhere to the telephone offer are mainly intended. Against this, it does not appear that TIM originally adequately regulated or adequately monitored these telephone contact management methods,

for example, the art. 7 of the TIM-3G spa type contract, according to which "lead" means the "authorization to be re-contacted provided by the Customer who releases his personal data (full and correct name, correct and active telephone number and/or correct and active e-mail address) ... in accordance with the laws in force, collected in paper, vocal or digital form)" where it is also established that for "the calculation of the fees, the useful contacts made and the contracts acquired and activated according to the data resulting from Telecom's information systems", which in fact also included the so-called "referenced"). Furthermore,

Considering the extent of the phenomenon of unwanted promotional contacts towards "unlisted" users which can also be attributed, as illustrated above, to the persistent and serious shortcomings of the Company, the latter must be held responsible for the aforementioned violation of consent with respect to "referenced" users, as it does not appear to have put in place "adequate and effective measures, in consideration of the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons" to guarantee, and be able to prove the compliance of the treatment with the personal data protection regulations, thus seriously and repeatedly violating the obligations of accountability (see articles 24 and 28, especially paragraph 3, of the Regulation). In particular,

This, notwithstanding the fact that precisely for the "referenced" users present in the public directories and at the same time in the public register of oppositions, art. 1, paragraph 11, of the law n. 5/2018, introduced into our legal system an express principle of joint responsibility of the owner-client for promotional activities entrusted to third-party call centers, establishing that: "The owner of the personal data processing is jointly liable for violations of the provisions of this law also in the case of outsourcing of call center activities to third parties for making telephone calls.”.

It should also be specified that this legal framework is not denied, as instead stated by TIM, by the aforementioned order-injunction adopted by this Authority on 11 April 2019, against XX srls (web doc. n. 9116053), taking into account the substantial diversity of the case covered by the aforementioned ordinance, concerning an articulated processing chain that descended from the client to an Albanian company through several subjects and intermediate steps.

Furthermore, it cannot be excluded in practice that the relationship between TIM and its partners could be classified in terms of joint ownership. In fact, it appears that these partners have identified and contacted "off-list" users outside the contact lists and the contract formally stipulated with TIM, effectively exceeding the role of mere data processors formally entrusted to them for the execution of promotional campaigns aimed at the interested parties present in the TIM lists and determining "purposes and means of processing", within the context of a unitary and de facto shared design, at least with regard to the purpose of acquiring new customers and in its operational effects, with TIM ( see provision 1 February 2018, web doc. n. 7810723). This was also in consideration of the irrefutable circumstance that the use of "off-list" numbers was functional to the pursuit of a shared interest, both of TIM and of its partners, from which everyone derived an economic advantage. In this way, TIM also substantially influenced the data processing carried out by the partners, participating in the determination of the purposes and means of such processing.

In this context, the telemarketing activity carried out on behalf of TIM towards the "off-list" must be considered a substantially unitary economic activity, as it is not possible, nor correct, to separate and separate the related related obligations and responsibilities (for analogous considerations on the responsibility of the client with respect to the conduct of its partners as well as other subjects possibly involved in the "processing chain", see provision 26 October 2017, web doc. n. 7320903; general provision 15 June 2011, web doc . n 1821257 _, which, in arguing the ownership of the processing by the clients, highlights some precise elements: if, as in the present case, the promotional contacts are made in the name, on behalf and in the interest of the principal company, "in the interested parties generates a legitimate expectation, since they perceive that they are recipients of advertising initiatives conducted directly by the company on behalf of which the proposal for the sale of products or services is formulated; ... - the mandate, often with representation, conferred from time to time binds the agent to the presentation of offers and the conclusion of contracts in the name, however on behalf of the principal using, moreover, the forms prepared by the latter". Furthermore, on the basis of the aforementioned provision General June 15, 2011, "the powers strictly provided for by the Code for the configuration and exercise of ownership" .... “they are and remain the exclusive prerogative of the principals. Among these, first of all: - making decisions relating to the purposes of processing the data of the recipients of promotional campaigns for the purpose of sending advertising material or direct sales or commercial research or commercial communication carried out by third parties who act in outsourcing for carrying out of the aforementioned promotion and marketing activities for goods, products and services". For similar arguments, see also: the Guidelines on promotional activity and the fight against spam, 4 July 2013, doc. web no. Among these, first of all: - making decisions relating to the purposes of processing the data of the recipients of promotional campaigns for the purpose of sending advertising material or direct sales or commercial research or commercial communication carried out by third parties who act in outsourcing for carrying out of the aforementioned promotion and marketing activities for goods, products and services". For similar arguments, see also: the Guidelines on promotional activities and the fight against spam, 4 July 2013, doc. web no. Among these, first of all: - making decisions relating to the purposes of processing the data of the recipients of promotional campaigns for the purpose of sending advertising material or direct sales or commercial research or commercial communication carried out by third parties who act in outsourcing for carrying out of the aforementioned promotion and marketing activities for goods, products and services". For similar arguments, see also: the Guidelines on promotional activity and the fight against spam, 4 July 2013, doc. web no. - make decisions relating to the purposes of processing the data of recipients of promotional campaigns for the purpose of sending advertising material or direct sales or commercial research or commercial communication carried out by third parties who act in outsourcing for carrying out the aforementioned promotional activities and marketing of goods, products and services”. For similar arguments, see also: the Guidelines on promotional activities and the fight against spam, 4 July 2013, doc. web no. - make decisions relating to the purposes of processing the data of recipients of promotional campaigns for the purpose of sending advertising material or direct sales or commercial research or commercial communication carried out by third parties who act in outsourcing for carrying out the aforementioned promotional activities and marketing of goods, products and services”. For similar arguments, see also: the Guidelines on promotional activities and the fight against spam, 4 July 2013, doc. web no.2542348 ; provision gen. 18 April 2019, on electoral propaganda and political communication, doc. web no. 9105201 ; in this sense v. Court of Milan, section I civ., 28 March 2019, n. 2629, which confirms the orientation expressed by the Guarantor in the provision 26 October 2017, doc. web 7320903 , on the co-ownership of the treatment by the client; ord. injunction of 18 June 2015, doc. web no. 4253116; opinion no. 1/2010 WP no. 169 of 16 February 2010, which highlighted, already in line with directive 95/46/EC, that, for the purpose of identifying the ownership actually exercised, it is also necessary to examine "non-contractual elements, such as the actual control exercised by one party, the image given to the interested parties and the legitimate expectations of the latter based on this visibility". See, in this sense also the orientation of the community jurisprudence, with respect to which the obligation of conforming interpretation of the rules applies: sentence CJEU, Case C-131/12 – Google Spain SL, Google Inc./Agencia Española de Protección de Datos, Mario Costeja Gonzáles, on the well-known “Google Spain” case, from which it can be inferred that responsibilities cannot be separated from advantages, such as economic profits, deriving from the same processing activity; sent. CJEU, 5 June 2018, C-210/16, Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein, referring to a broad concept of (co)ownership in the processing, also including the subject who, in some way, contributed to the determination even of the sole purposes of the treatment. On co-ownership, see sent. CJEU, 10 July 2018, C-25/17, Tietosuojavaltuutettu; CJEU, 29 July 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID GmbH & Co. KG / Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV). 10 July 2018, C-25/17, Tietosuojavaltuutettu; CJEU, 29 July 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID GmbH & Co. KG / Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV). 10 July 2018, C-25/17, Tietosuojavaltuutettu; CJEU, 29 July 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID GmbH & Co. KG / Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV).

In consideration of this, since the aforesaid treatments took place in the absence of the necessary consent of the interested parties or of another suitable legal basis, TIM appears to have violated the articles 5, par. 1, lit. a), and par. 2, 6, 7, 24 and 28 of the Regulation, as well as art. 130 of the Code.

3.2. "Hybrid" promotional communications and violation of the provisions on the exercise of the rights of the interested parties

The cases regarding the failure to adequately respect the rights of the interested parties are varied (see par. 2.2 and 2.3).

The failure to respond to the requests to exercise the rights envisaged in the matter formulated by some interested parties, some of which sent by certified mail, and therefore a conduct inconsistent with the obligation of the owner to facilitate the exercise of the rights of the interested parties provided for by the legislation on the matter and to satisfy them without delay (see art. 12, paragraph 1, 2 and 3, Regulation; see, moreover, already art. 8, paragraph 1, Code previously in force, to certify the constant nature of this obligation).

subsequent to the aforementioned provision - and therefore deserving of censure - the similar lacunae ascertained with respect to the requests of XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; XX; and, lastly, XX, recognizing the violation of the right to revoke consent and to object pursuant to Articles 7, par. 3, and 21, par. 2 and 3, of the Regulation (right, that of opposition, already enshrined in article 7, paragraph 4, letter b, of the previous Code).

Poor management of the opposition will of the interested parties also results with reference to the malfunctioning of the software which did not allow for a long period (see above par. 2.8) the timely loading of the denials in the black list and their timely and correct result on all company databases.

Furthermore, it does not appear that the Company has correctly managed the processing of the so-called "off-list" data and any objections made by them (see par. 2.1), nor that it has adequately monitored the correct management of refusals and the correct implementation of the black lists by its partners, having emerged, in particular, that various denials were recorded in the company systems even 451 days after the date of the denial (see attached table - n.1- in the note dated 12/11/2019 ), and in any case well beyond the acknowledgment due by law (without unjustified delay or, at the most, within one month of receipt of the request, as established by art. 12, paragraph 3, Regulation) (see par. 2.1). The seriousness of TIM's conduct emerges all the more in the light of the fact that under the law in force, 

Also on the basis of what has already been said regarding the liability of TIM, as co-controller with regard to such calls or in any case commissioner of promotional campaigns, an even more serious violation can be found with respect to telephone users which - although placed on the marketing black list following the aforementioned provision 22 June 2016, which had prohibited their processing for marketing purposes - however, they are contacted in the context of "off-list" calls made by call centers, in the absence of adequate monitoring and "filtering" activity of such promotional contacts which must be reproached to the Company, as to the call centers responsible for the contacts. Nor does it appear that the Company, for all the interested parties in question, has demonstrated the necessary consent by producing suitable documentation. That is,

Furthermore, the practice, which has sometimes emerged, of directing, within the context of the same promotional campaign, a very large number (even 155 times, especially considering the period - monthly - of their execution) of telephone calls to the same user; excess which can be considered facilitated by TIM when it does not appear to have adopted adequate organizational and technical measures to avoid, perhaps with adequate on-site supervision, unwanted promotional recontacts.

Also with specific regard to communications made by TIM, also via SMS, for purportedly intra-contractual purposes, but also containing a promotional offer despite the refusal of interested parties to receive promotional communications (see par. 2.3), the violation of the principles of purpose and correctness of the treatment, as well as the right to object to the treatment for promotional purposes (sanctioned, respectively, by article 5, paragraph 1, letters a and b, and by article 21, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Regulation), as well as the violation of the rules on automated promotional communications (articles 6, 7, of the Regulation, and 130 of the Code). In fact, it does not reveal whether the promotional offer, in practice, does not benefit the company but the interested party (see TIM memorandum of 10/10/2019), instead noting only the content, even if only in part,

Finally, with reference to unwanted phone calls caused by alleged "mistakes or errors" committed by some TIM partners (see par. 2.3), it is believed that the latter, in addition to revealing, on the part of the call centers, the possible violation of rules of technical and professional diligence, also bring out the liability of the Company, which has not proved that it has worked sufficiently to prevent them. In particular, the same is recognized as guilty of being supervised, as it does not emerge that TIM has adequately verified, even with on-site audits, that no telephone calls were made to users in the absence of an appropriate legal basis, thus violating the art. 28, par. 3, letter. a), of the Regulation.

3.3. So-called “OLO” customer data and data on the black list

For greater clarity (also with respect to what is indicated by the Company in order to reduce the number of calls made, noting the percentage of "reachability" of the same), it is necessary, first of all, to observe that the insertion of the user data already constitutes relevant processing in contact lists as well as the promotional phone call made, even if it does not "reach" the interested party (because perhaps the latter does not answer or blocks the contact attempt).

With specific reference to the quantity of OLO customers included in the prospect campaign lists (see par. 2.4), the Company has not provided proof that the processing for promotional purposes was carried out on the basis of a suitable prior consent for the marketing activity of the individuals concerned, thus violating the articles 6 and 7; recitals 32, 40, 42 and 43 of the Regulation, as well as art. 130 of the Code (as already established by articles 23-130, the previous Code). In this regard cf. also Guidelines on the processing of personal data for online profiling - 19 March 2015), nor does it appear to have detailed and documented other different and alternative legal bases, with reference to the same interested parties.

In this regard, the Company (see briefs of 10/10/2019 and 11/12/2019, cited above), limited itself to proposing the origin of the data referring to the OLOs included in commercial campaigns, which some users would be derived from telephone directories public, but without documenting the necessary preventive verification activity in the public register of oppositions; others would be users who have returned to TIM, without however detailing this eventuality (in particular: times; collection channel), nor providing proof of the fulfillment of the information and of the collection of specific consent for promotional purposes. For the rest, he made express reference (only in the note of 12/11/2019) to an anomaly in the procedure which would have led to the consequent inclusion in the lists for the promotional campaign. Therefore, the Company has also violated the obligation pursuant to articles 5, par. 2, and 24 of the Regulation, placed in the head of the data controller to demonstrate the compliance of the treatment with the principles of the Regulation itself.

For such data (OLO customers) - as for data present in the black list, subject to systematic misalignment - however, it should be remembered that, regardless of whether or not they are used for promotional purposes, the relative treatment, for what has been said, must be considered illicit already based on the non-compliance with the principles of correctness, limitation of purpose, limitation of conservation, as well as accuracy and integrity pursuant to art. 5, par. 1, lit. a), b) and e), of the Regulation.

3.4. The “TIM Party” online program

Guidelines on consent pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, developed by the Art. 29 Group and adopted by the European Data Protection Board in the version of 10 April 2018; Opinion no. 15/2011 on the definition of consent – ​​WP 187, adopted by the Art. 29 Group on 13 July 2011; Recommendation CM/Rec(2010)13 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to member states on the protection of individuals with regard to automated processing of personal data in the context of profiling, 23 November 2010).

In fact, the consent to the processing of personal data that the interested party must give cannot be defined as free, and is unduly necessary, by accepting (in the present case as a condition for obtaining the advantages of the prize operation) the use of one's own data personal data given for other purposes for the sending of advertising communications (obviously, the consent for promotional purposes thus acquired when the interested party joins the "TIM Party" program overrides any refusal present in the Company's systems). The interested parties must instead be enabled to (knowingly and) freely express their choices regarding the processing of data concerning them, expressing their consent (so to speak, 'modular') for each distinct purpose pursued by the owner, further than joining the “TIM Party” loyalty program and using the related benefits. While the processing of data intended for retention in the strict sense may in fact be considered necessary for the execution of a contact of which the interested party is a party, for which no consent is required for its execution (Article 6, paragraph 1, letter b, of the Regulation), any other processing purpose (e.g. profiling, marketing, etc.) requires, however, the free, specific, informed and distinct consent for each of them (Article 6, paragraph 1, lett. a, of the Regulation).

This orientation finds full and constant correspondence also in the provisions of this Authority (see in this regard, general provision of 24 February 2005, web doc. n. 1103045, as well as among many others, provision of 02/03/2005 , web doc. no. 1109503 ; provision 03/09/2006, web doc. no. 1252220 ; provision 02/22/2007, web doc. no. 1388590 ; provision 03/05/2009, web doc. no. 1615731 ; provision 7-15-2010, web doc. n. 1741998; provision 7-22-2010, web doc. n. 1741988 ; provision 10-7-2010, web doc. n. 1763037 ; provision 20 December 2012, web doc. n. 2223607 ; provision 1/24/2013, web doc. n. 2433614 ; provision 11/21/2013, web doc. n. 2830611; provision 9-1-2014, doc. web no. 2904350 ; provision 25-9-2014, doc. web no. 3457687 ; 1 October 2015, doc. web no. 4452896 ; provision 27 October 2016, no. 439, doc. web no. 5687770 ; provision 10 March 2016, doc. web no. 4988238 ; provision 11 February 2016, doc. web no. 4885578 ; provision 22 May 2018, doc. web no. 8995274 ).

The same orientation was confirmed by the Authority, even after the full operation of the Regulation (see provision of 12 June 2019, web doc. n. 9120218). The Supervisory Authorities of the other Member States of the European Union also appear to have expressed themselves (see ICO, Direct marketing guidance, version 1.124 October 2013; CNIL, Délibération nº 2013-378 du 5 décembre 2013 portant adoption d'une recommandation relative aux Cookies and aux other traceurs visés par l'article 32-II de la loi du 6 janvier 1978).

It should also be considered that the procedure relating to the "TIM Party", in the event of failure to issue consent for promotional purposes, basically results in preventing access to this program and, with this, participation in multiple services and functions, all combined and conditioned, without distinction, to the provision of said consent. In particular, this procedure thus results in prejudice to the interested party who intends to remain free in the choices with respect to the processing of data concerning him, at the same time discriminating against him - compared to subjects who allow themselves to be persuaded to give said consent - with regard to access to more various benefits of appreciable economic content. This foreclosure, with specific reference to the prize contests indicated by the program in question, in a more systematic view,

The violation of the freedom of the interested parties is even more serious because it is carried out massively compared to a very large number of people and because the aforementioned consent constraint is not assisted by a prior suitable and specific information for the processing of data dedicated to the "TIM Party" program (but, in this case, from a summary presentation sheet, where the 'free' of the program is incorrectly stated), nor from the possibility of revoking the coerced consent upon joining, with consequent violation of articles 7, par. 4, and 13 of the Regulation.

It should also not be underestimated that the Company could have developed its business and drawn economic benefits (other than the coercion of consent) against the benefits provided (such as discounts) and potential benefits (such as for prize competitions) in alternative ways, moreover widespread in consumer practices, for example by providing for procedures that attribute reserved discounts, or greater points and discounts dedicated to those who spend the most or proceed with regular purchases, or similar forms of loyalty aimed at rewarding the most constant and high-spending customers, such as preserve the fundamental right to consent, which is also a fundamental guarantee of the power of control over the data released and the purposes of the processing.

3.5. The critical issues concerning the Apps subject to investigation

In relation to the "My TIM", "TIM Personal" and "TIM Smart Kid" apps (see par. 2.6), the non-compliance of the treatment with the articles 5, paragraph 1, lett. a), and 12, par. 1, of the Regulation, with specific reference to the obligation to provide information in a correct and transparent manner, in order to make interested parties aware of the processing concerning the data concerning them. Indeed, processing activities for promotional purposes of geolocation and/or communication to third parties for promotional purposes have been indicated in the related information, although they are not actually carried out, according to what was declared by the Company.

Nor did it appear that these information contained adequate elements, in terms of content and clarity of formulation, regarding the actual processing of data carried out by the Company through these Apps. The need for correctness and transparency, understood above all as easy and effective understanding, which is evidently even greater when it comes to Apps (such as the "TIM Smart Kid") aimed (also) at minors and other vulnerable subjects, which should also be concretely ensured with suitable graphic means, such as, for example, "standardized" icons (see recital 60, Regulation, and also Guidelines of the Art. 29 Working Party on transparency, adopted on 29 November 2017 and amended on 11 April 2018).

Furthermore, the version used by TIM, with regard to the "My TIM" Apps; "TIM Personal"; "TIM Smart Kid, at the time of the investigations, did not ask the interested parties for a suitable consent for the processing of personal data for multiple purposes and multiple processing operations (including, in particular: "statistical" activities; "sizing the service"; "diagnostics"), although indicated in the information provided to users, heterogeneous among them and moreover apparently not necessary for the provision of services to data subjects through the Apps.

It should also be considered that the Company has set up a procedure where the acceptance - joint and inseparable - of "terms of service" and privacy information is necessary. Even this setting cannot be considered either correct or transparent, since - even in the absence of an effective ability to modify the privacy consents previously expressed by the interested party - it still generates a reasonable doubt in users regarding a possible interference of the aforementioned acceptance with the management of users' consent to the treatments indicated in the information.

as well as the aforementioned Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent of the Art. 29 Group, pp. 35-37).

Therefore, in addition to incorrect or transparent processing, methods of acquiring consent have emerged that do not comply with the principles of freedom and specificity of the same in relation to each single purpose pursued (articles 4, point 11 and 7, paragraph 4 of the Regulation ).

3.6. Self-certification form of possession of a prepaid line

Also with reference to the self-certification form of possession of a prepaid line (see par. 2.7), the violation of art. 7, par. 1 and 2, in conjunction with art. 4, par. 1, point 11, and of the Regulations for failure to acquire the free and specific consent of the interested parties, already sanctioned by the articles 23 and 130, previous Code. This is because, with reference to the said form, a single consent has been acquired for contractual purposes and distinct and different purposes for which a further and specific consent (promotional and/or profiling) would have been necessary. Furthermore, as further confirmation of their non-compliance, the Company communicated, with the memorandum dated 10 October 2019, that it had taken steps to amend the same.

In this regard, what was stated by the Company regarding the non-use, for purposes other than contractual ones, of the data collected with this contractual means - moreover in truth affirmed, but not adequately demonstrated, since the Company did not produce any evidence, taken from its own information systems, from the reports of promotional campaigns or aliunde, of the non-inclusion of such data in promotional campaigns conducted, directly or through third parties - is not relevant by reason of a further necessary consideration. That is, that the collection and subsequent storage of personal data carried out in the absence of the necessary free and specific consent for promotional purposes, as carried out by the Company, constitute in themselves two processing operations relevant for the purposes of the legislation on the subject (see provision June 12, 2019, doc. web no.9120218 as well as provisions of 27 October 2016, cit.; 20 November 2014, doc. web no. 365793 ), and therefore - differently from what is claimed by TIM - are to be considered unlawful processing.

3.7. Misalignments and data breaches

With regard to the aforementioned data breaches (see par. 2.8), the violation of the provisions aimed at guaranteeing, through adequate technical and organizational measures, the integrity and confidentiality of the systems, the accuracy of the data, as well as allowing the timely activation the verification procedures by the Authority (see articles 5, paragraph 1, letters d and f); 32, par.1; 33, paragraph 1, Regulation).

Various anomalies and misalignments relating to a very large number of customer personal data also emerged. These misalignments, capable of jeopardizing the accuracy of the data processed, also appear to have had an impact on the privacy consents reported in the customer data sheets. In this regard, during the inspections, it was found that there was an inconsistency between the privacy consents reported in a customer's registry and the data that can be inferred from examining the history of consents, again with a violation of the principles of accuracy of the data and integrity of the systems pursuant to art. 5 of the Regulation (see p. 5, report of 14/2/2019; p. 7, report of 28/2/2019).

3.8. Violation of the principles of accountability and privacy by design

The procedures for loading denials in the various archives were found to be incorrectly designed - and therefore not suitable for guaranteeing correct management of the right to object, and, albeit in a circumscribed manner, those aimed at preventing the inclusion in promotional campaigns of users already present in the black list. This is because these procedures have not been found, in particular, suitable for allowing either a timely registration of consents/denials in the company systems, or a correct updating of the black lists, also considering the lack of unambiguous and shared coding criteria (see par. 2.1). Furthermore, TIM's policy was found to be seriously deficient with regard to the management of contacts made by partners in relation to so-called "off-list" CDs and the related denials.

In this context, the Company thus appears to have violated, under several aspects, the principle of privacy by design, as "taking into account the state of the art and implementation costs, as well as the nature, scope of application, context and the purposes of the processing, as well as the risks having different probabilities and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons constituted by the processing, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, the data controller "does not appears to have implemented adequate "adequate technical and organizational measures ... aimed at ... integrating the necessary guarantees in the processing in order to meet the requirements of this regulation and protect the rights of the interested parties" (see art. 25, paragraph 1; recital 75 and 78, Regulation).

From a different point of view, TIM has revealed that it does not have sufficient knowledge and ability to account for various fundamental aspects of the processing carried out by the same directly or through third party partners, and therefore has highlighted an inadequate ability to prove the exact fulfillment of the legislation on the matter, thus resulting in having violated the fundamental principle of accountability (articles 5, paragraphs 2 and 24, paragraphs 1 and 2, Regulation).

In particular, TIM - while promoting, knowing and endorsing the practice established by its partners, as well as making a profit, with regard to off-list calls made by its commercial partners - was not able, during the inspection, to precisely quantify the same, nor to provide the list of numbers contacted, except for those that were successful and, therefore, associated with a Verbal Order. Furthermore, TIM had considerable difficulty in clarifying even the functioning of the registration of denials and therefore of the black lists, explaining a more articulated functioning only with the note of November 12, 2019.

Furthermore, again with regard to these calls, as indicated above, there are serious inconsistencies - from the comparison of statements and results respectively relating to the Company and its commercial partners - regarding the quantification of both the off-list calls, including the "referenced" ones, and the Verbal Orders relating to this type of contact.

It should be added that, at times (see above, par. 2.1), through verifications, in some cases punctual in others on a sample basis, a significant divergence was found between the contact lists presented by TIM and allegedly provided to the call centers and those concretely in possession of the same call centers, for carrying out promotional campaigns on its behalf, as well as among the black lists of TIM and those of some call centers, even if they refer to the promotional campaigns carried out for this Company. Divergence that was only partially clarified and documented by TIM (see briefs of 10/10/2019 and 11/12/2019, as well as the hearing of 11/5/2019).

With regard to the behavior of its partners, for which TIM has a specific supervisory obligation (art. 28 of the Regulation), the Company - also during the hearing of 5 November 2019 and most recently with the note dated 12/11/ 2019 - was unable to fully clarify the failure/late inclusion in the denials blacklist by the partners as well as indicate and document the timing relating to the actual inclusion of denials in the corporate systems, demonstrating a tiring exercise of the accountability obligation.

Furthermore, the Company appears to have taken adequate account, only on the occasion of the aforementioned investigations, of the inadequacy of the self-certification forms of possession of a prepaid line, moreover dating back to 2009, and was unable to provide the number of business customers subscribing to this form, since has not provided for "a specific tracking for this type of form ..." Furthermore, as further confirmation of their non-compliance, the Company communicated, with the memo dated 10 October 2019, that it had taken steps to amend the same.

4. DETECTED VIOLATIONS

The processing of personal data carried out by TIM is even more serious if we consider that the same Company has already been the subject of various injunctions, prescriptive and sanctioning measures, even in recent times (2016 and 2017), precisely with regard to the same type of violations (unwanted marketing; inadequate management of data subjects' rights; data breach; see provision 22 June 2016, web doc. no. 5255159 ; 30 May 2007, web doc. no. 14125989 ; provision 21 July 2016, web doc. no. 5436585 ) . This, without considering that, albeit from a different point of view (unsolicited phone calls even if not with promotional content), it has been ascertained (see provision 6 April 2017, web doc. n. 6376175) the unjustified activation by TIM, in the name of a complainant and without his knowledge, of a large number of residential telephone lines (over 800), the processing of personal data which involved numerous other customers.

There are also numerous injunction orders adopted for the aforementioned and other similar violations; by way of example only, reference is made to the injunction orders of 3 October 2013 (web doc. n. 2726332 ); of 16 May 2018, doc. web nos. 9370105 and 9370122 ); of 18 January 2018 (web doc. n. 7665804 ).  

It should be noted - confirming the extent and continuation of the critical issues found - the persistence of numerous reports and complaints, received by the Authority even after the date of the inspections carried out at TIM SpA and its commercial partners up to today's date, and containing grievances similar to those established, on which this Authority reserves the right to carry out further investigative activities.

Following the analysis of the overall documentation acquired in deeds, in consideration of some elements that emerged (such as, in particular, among others, the very high number of interested parties involved in the processing in question as well as the variety and seriousness of the violations found by TIM ), this Authority - having also evaluated some measures whose forthcoming implementation the Company has proposed - deems a wide-ranging intervention (inhibitory, prescriptive and sanctioning) necessary, in order to guarantee compliance with current legislation of the treatments covered by this provision.

The aforementioned violations ascertained against TIM, in fact, represent proof, on the one hand, of a policy implemented by the Company in serious discrepancy with current legislation, moreover under multiple profiles; on the other hand, of the alarming context in which the phenomenon of unwanted promotional calls must take place. For more than fifteen years, this phenomenon has been the subject of social alarm on the part of citizens and attention on the part of the legislator and the Guarantor. The numerous regulatory interventions connected to the regulation of the sector have been accompanied by constant control activities by the Authority, carried out in a widespread manner with reference to all aspects of the phenomenon, from the relationships between the various subjects involved, to the correct acquisition of the lists of interested parties who can be contacted , from the management of telephone directories and the public register of oppositions, to the use of call centres. The numerous provisions adopted on the subject have all been published and carefully reported by the media, without this having led to a significant reduction in the phenomenon, so much so as to induce the Authority, in April 2019, to send a general information to the Public Prosecutor at the Court of Rome aimed at highlighting the criminal consequences of telemarketing activities carried out in violation of the provisions on the protection of personal data.

On the basis of the elements set out above, the violations indicated in par. 3 of this provision, it is believed, pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. d) and f), of the Regulation, to consequently adopt corrective measures against TIM SpA for the definitive limitation of certain treatments, also enjoining them to conform them to the regulations in force as detailed in the device, as well as having to adopt against the same Company a injunction order, pursuant to articles 58, par. 2, lit. i), of the Regulation, 166, paragraph 7, of the Code, and 18 of law n. 689/1981, for the application of the pecuniary administrative sanction provided for by art. 83, para. 3 and 5, of the Regulation.

In fact, various provisions of the Regulation and of the Code have been violated in relation to connected treatments carried out by TIM SpA for marketing purposes, for which art. 83, par. 3, of the Regulation, on the basis of which, if, in relation to the same treatment or to connected treatments, a data controller violates, with willful misconduct or negligence, various provisions of the Regulation, the total amount of the pecuniary administrative sanction does not exceed the amount specified for the more serious violation (referred to in Article 83, paragraph 5, letter a, of the Regulation) thus absorbing the less serious violations (see Article 83, paragraph 4, letter a, and 5, letter a and b, of the Regulation). Therefore, the aforementioned violations having as object, among others, the conditions of lawfulness of the treatment pursuant to articles 6 and 7, Regulation, and 130 of the Code, are to be traced back, pursuant to art. 83, par. 3 of the same Regulation, in the context of the most serious violation envisaged for the non-compliance with the aforesaid conditions of lawfulness with consequent application of the sole sanction envisaged in art. 83, par. 5, letter. a), of the Regulation.

For the purpose of determining the amount of the pecuniary sanction, it is necessary to take into account the elements indicated in art. 83, par. 2, of the Regulation, which, in the present case, are relevant in the following respects:

1. the wide range of treatments, which almost always concern (e.g., with the exception of forms for self-certification of possession of a prepaid line, reserved for business customers) the generality of customers and users of the telephone service and related services, as well as the high number of interested parties involved, at the date of the on-site inspections (February 2019), and in particular: 2,894,292 lines affected by IT system misalignments; customers who have downloaded the "My TIM" Apps; "TIM Personal"; “TIM Smart Kid” (respectively: 7,000,000; 400,000; 10,000); the approximately 2,000,000 customers adhering to the “TIM Party” program (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter a) of the Regulation);

2. the seriousness of the violations detected, due to: the illegitimate, and in particular unwanted, contacts made in the context of telemarketing and teleselling activities (potentially harmful to various fundamental rights and, in particular, in addition to the right to the protection of personal data , the right to individual tranquility and the right to privacy); of data collection procedures, such as those envisaged for the “My TIM”, “TIM Personal” and “TIM Smart Kid” apps, for the prepaid line possession self-certification forms and for the “TIM Party” program, such , to coerce the free expression of the will of the interested parties with regard to the processing of their data and therefore also to undermine the fundamental right to self-determination of the interested parties (regardless of any actual use of the same for purposes not adequately agreed, such as promotional or geolocation: see App "My TIM", "TIM Personal" and "TIM Smart Kid"); of access to various benefits of appreciable economic content (including various discounts and prize competitions), precluded by the "TIM Party" program to the interested parties (already, naturally, burdened, as consumers, by the information asymmetry regarding forms and clauses prepared unilaterally) who have not been able to adhere to them to safeguard the freedom of their consent, also in violation of the principles of free and equal treatment in the field of prize competitions; the difficulties that interested parties have encountered in curbing the phenomenon of unwanted marketing, also considering the inadequate management of the right to object through black lists; the multiplicity and variety of conduct (active and passive) attributable to TIM in violation of several provisions of the Regulation and of the Code; of the serious organizational deficiencies that have led to an inadequate implementation of the fundamental principles of data protection from the planning stage (privacy by design) and accountability; the violation of the fundamental principles of data accuracy, as well as system integrity and confidentiality, as attested by various data breaches, moreover managed by TIM with considerable delay,

3. the significant duration of the violations and, in the absence of precise elements for some, prudently limited by this Authority, even if the very high number of interested parties involved would lead to backdating the start of the same with respect to the date identified below: for some ( such as those relating to the principles of privacy by design and accountability, as well as to the excess retention of OLO data), which began at least from 25 May 2018, the date of full operation of the Regulation and which are not yet fully regulated and resolved; for others (such as unwanted telemarketing, which lasted at least until 9 October 2019, when TIM sent its partners a note inviting them not to contact the so-called "referenced"); for still others (such as the procedure for installing the identified Apps) at least from 25 May 2018 until February 2019 ("My TIM" App, actually further updated in August 2019, and "XX Kid") or at July 2019 (“TIM Personal” App); due to system misalignments - which prevented the completeness and correctness of the black list of denials and their correct representation in all company databases - the software malfunction started on 30/1/2018 and lasted until 14/2/2019, as well as resolved on 8/3/2019; for "TIM Party" instead, the violation is still in existence (article 83, paragraph 2, letter a, of the Regulation); due to system misalignments - which prevented the completeness and correctness of the black list of denials and their correct representation in all company databases - the software malfunction started on 30/1/2018 and lasted until 14/2/2019, as well as resolved on 8/3/2019; for "TIM Party" instead, the violation is still in existence (article 83, paragraph 2, letter a, of the Regulation); due to system misalignments - which prevented the completeness and correctness of the black list of denials and their correct representation in all company databases - the software malfunction started on 30/1/2018 and lasted until 14/2/2019, as well as resolved on 8/3/2019; for "TIM Party" instead, the violation is still in existence (article 83, paragraph 2, letter a, of the Regulation);

4. the malicious nature of the following conducts, with particular regard to their conception and implementation, in relation to the following profiles: the incorrect information provided to the interested parties as part of the installation procedure of the aforementioned Apps and the methods of acquiring the consent of the interested parties who they have not ensured its free manifestation; the methods for collecting consent, neither free nor specific, through the self-certification forms of possession of a prepaid line for purposes as diverse as invasive (such as marketing and profiling); the "TIM Party" service, with regard to the acquisition of a non-free consent to marketing; the processing, through some partners, of the data of numerous "referenced" subjects, in the absence of the necessary prior consent for promotional purposes,

5. the grossly negligent, more properly negligent, nature of other treatments, such as: the inadequate implementation of the fundamental principles of privacy by design and accountability, also proven by various procedural anomalies and by the obvious difficulties that emerged in providing certain and precise reconstructions of some problems encountered; the numerous data breaches; the excess storage of OLO data and the use of a part of these for non-consensed promotional purposes; inadequate management of black lists; inadequate control of the work of its partners with respect to contacts with users entered manually or the result of alleged oversights/errors; that is, also taking into account the use of procedures in clear contrast with the current regulatory framework and the interpretation provided by the Guarantor with various general and specific provisions; or, as for the data of the OLOs, taking into account that these are treatments and practices, in part, non-compliant, as well as with current legislation, with the Company's internal procedures (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter b, of the Regulation );

6. the existence of numerous previous measures - adopted by this Authority against TIM - inhibitory, prescriptive and sanctioning, the latter defined with reduced payments or with injunction orders, including those mentioned above, dated 3 October 2013; of 16 May 2018; of 18 January 2018 in which, moreover, it was already highlighted that "TIM SpA undertook a telephone contact activity aimed at subjects who had expressed a clear will to the contrary, reaching them with unwanted or disturbing communications ... it carried out the aforementioned activity on the basis of a conscious choice and not for mere negligence, having acquired, over the years, through constant dialogue with the Guarantor,5255159 ; of 21 July 2016, doc. web no. 5436585 ; of 6 April 2017, doc. web no. 6376175 , concerning certain violations similar to those ascertained with this provision) (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter e, of the Regulation);

7. the existence of significant economic advantages, mostly current or even potential, deriving from activities - in particular, from unwanted telemarketing and teleselling and from those connected to the "TIM Party" program (with specific reference to saving resources in terms of denied utilities , bonuses and discounts, to customers who have not signed up for the program in order not to be subject to the obligation to receive promotional offers) - carried out in violation of the Regulation and the Code, having regard to both turnover as indicated in the financial statements of TIM SpA for the year 2018, the latest available (euro 13,901,473,076), and to the primary market position of the Telecom group, and, in particular, of TIM in the telecommunications sector (art. 83, paragraph 2, letter k, of the regulation);

8. as a mitigating factor, the adoption of measures - albeit limited, if considered with respect to the variety and seriousness of the violations detected - to mitigate or eliminate the consequences of the violations. In particular, TIM declared (with a note dated 10/10/2019) that it had changed the installation procedure (including information and consent) of the "My TIM" and "TIM Smart Kid" Apps in February 2019 and of the "TIM Personal” in July 2019; with the note dated 10/5/2019, it communicated that it had terminated the contracts with two of the partners who highlighted critical issues in the management of promotional phone calls and that it had applied contractual penalties to another partner, due to similar critical issues. With the memory of October 10, 2019, the Company has represented that it has modified the aforementioned self-certification forms of possession of a prepaid line - without it appearing in the documents, however having carried out checks regarding the possible use of forms with similar (incorrect) methods of obtaining consent - as well as having requested its partners to suspend the promotional contacts of the "referenced" subjects, proposing possible sanctions to them as provided for by the existing contracts. The Company also appears to have proposed, mostly between 10 October and 12 November 2019 - but not yet implemented - some remedies, also with specific regard to calls to "referenced" users (in particular: selection and reorganization of its sales network with incentive mechanisms, including regulatory compliance; request to the partners to provide suitable documentation to prove the effective fulfillment of the obligations on the matter, such as those relating to information and consent; periodic checks of their work, even with access to their information systems). However, to date it does not appear to have made any intervention on the non-free acquisition of consent for processing for promotional purposes of "TIM Party" (article 83, paragraph 2, letter c, of the Regulation);

9. as a mitigating factor, the cooperation provided in the context of the on-site inspections and in the subsequent course of the preliminary investigation, while demonstrating, on the whole, obvious difficulties in reporting to the Authority on one's actual processing activities and related obligations (art. 83 , paragraph 2, letter f, of the Regulation);

10. as an extenuating factor - despite the invasive nature of the violations found, the type of data used compared to that held overall by the Company, i.e. identification and contact data (telephone numbers) of the data subjects involved in the data breach events; contact details of "referenced" subjects and other interested parties (customers and prospects) not permitted for invasive promotional purposes (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter g, of the Regulation);

11. as a mitigating factor, the proposed "participation in working groups with trade associations for the definition of rules and codes of conduct applicable to market operators (telesellers)" (see TIM brief 10/10/2019; art. 83 , paragraph 2, letter j, of the Regulation);

12. as a mitigating factor, the loss of turnover achieved in 2018 compared to the previous year (2017), together with the declared contraction of its market share (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k, of the Regulation), as well as the proposed employment situation of the Company, which has declared that its personnel have been on a solidarity scheme since 2011 (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k, of the Regulation).

Moreover, in application of the principles of effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness with which the present Authority must comply in determining the amount of the fine (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the Regulation), it is further necessary to take into consideration the following additional elements :

- the ample time margin granted to all operators in the sector in order to allow them a complete and consistent adaptation of the systems and procedures to the new European legislation, already in force since 25 May 2016 and fully operational since 25 May 2018; adjustment that TIM does not appear to have made in an appropriate manner;

- that the aforementioned provisional activity, with which indications and clarifications on the matter were provided (see general provisions and Guidelines cited in this provision), and the constant interlocution of the Authority with the subjects operating in the telemarketing sector, and in particular with TIM (as the most reported operator and, therefore, recipient of numerous investigations) - can reasonably lead to the conclusion that all operators (including TIM) have achieved sufficient awareness of the provisions that must be unfailingly observed;

- therefore, in the light of the above, the inadequate dissuasive nature of the sanctions contested against TIM so far, also taking into account the fact that the phenomenon of unwanted calls in the context of telemarketing has been the subject of constant and timely attention by the legislator (see ., most recently, ln 5/2018) and of the Guarantor, as well as complaints from citizens;

- the current persistence of numerous reports and complaints, received by the Authority after the date of the investigations carried out at the Company up to today's date, similar to those covered by this provision.

However, with a view to the necessary balance between the rights of the interested parties and the freedom to conduct a business and in the initial application of the pecuniary administrative sanctions envisaged by the Regulation, it is necessary to carefully evaluate the aforementioned various criteria, also in order to limit the economic impact of the sanction on the organisational, functional and employment needs of the Company.

Therefore it is believed that - based on all the elements indicated above, against the maximum statutory fine (556,058,923.00 euros, equal to 4% of TIM's turnover, i.e. 13,901,473,076 euros, and not the higher turnover of the Telecom group) - the administrative sanction of payment of a sum equal to 0.2% of the aforementioned turnover corresponding to twenty-seven million eight hundred two thousand nine hundred and forty-six euros must be applied to the same Company).

It should be noted that the conditions pursuant to art. 17 of Regulation no. 1/2019 concerning internal procedures having external relevance, aimed at carrying out the tasks and exercising the powers delegated to the Guarantor.

In this context, it is also believed - also in consideration of the invasiveness of the contested illicit treatments with respect to the fundamental rights of the interested parties; of the high number of the same, even potentially, involved; the serious misalignments detected in the Company's information systems; the inadequate control of the same in relation to its partners and, finally, the lack of dissuasiveness of the measures adopted up to now by the Guarantor against the Company itself - which, pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code, and of the art. 16, paragraph 1, of the Guarantor's Regulation n. 1/2019, it is necessary to proceed with the publication of this provision on the website of the Guarantor, by way of ancillary sanction.

Please note that pursuant to art. 170 of the Code, anyone who fails to comply with this definitive limitation of processing provision, being required to do so, is punished with imprisonment from three months to two years and that, in the event of non-compliance with the same provision, the sanction of referred to in art. 83, par. 5, letter. e), of the Regulation; furthermore, failure to comply with the injunction issued is administratively sanctioned pursuant to art. 83, par. 5, letter. e), Regulation.

ALL THIS CONSIDERED

having detected the illegality, in the terms set out in the justification of the processing in the terms carried out by TIM SpA, with registered office in Via Gaetano Negri n.1, Milan, Tax Code 00488410010:

1) pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. f), of the Regulation, provides for the definitive limitation of the processing within 60 days of receipt of this provision:

a) for marketing purposes, the numbers of subjects already reached by commercial contacts with a "denial" outcome, as well as those present in the black list;

b) for marketing purposes, of numbers relating to "referenced" subjects in the absence of suitable consent;

c) for marketing purposes, of the OLO customer data present in the residential CRM, in the absence of suitable consent;

d) for purposes other than the provision of services through the aforementioned Apps, customer data that was collected through the "My TIM", "TIM Personal" and "TIM Smart Kid" applications - prior to the changes made by the Company - in lack of adequate consent;

e) for marketing purposes, of the data of customers who, before joining the "TIM Party" program, appear to have expressed a refusal to the same purpose or have not expressed any will;

f) for marketing and profiling purposes, of the data collected through the self-certification forms of possession of a prepaid line, in the absence of suitable consent;

2) pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. d), of the Regulation, enjoins the same Company to carry out, within 180 days of receipt of this receipt:

a) the punctual verification of the consistency of the black lists used, both with respect to the insertion of the numbers of subjects who have opposed or oppose the treatment through the Customer care, and with respect to the insertion of the numbers of those who have opposed or oppose the processing in the course of a commercial contact through the partners;

b) the timely acquisition of any black lists used by the partners for the purpose of the subsequent prompt transfer, in the so-called denial black list, of the numbers present therein, relating to commercial contacts made on behalf of the Company;

c) the verifiable verification, at regular intervals, of the effective and timely modification of the enhancement of the consent for marketing activities and of the effective inclusion in the black list, in relation to the numbers reached by commercial contacts with a "denial" outcome that belong to active customers present in the Company's CRM or to non-customer subjects;

d) the implementation of technical and organizational measures regarding the management of requests to exercise the rights of data subjects - and in particular the right to object to promotional purposes - which make it possible to give feedback to data subjects, as well as identify and correctly implement their effective will , without unjustified delay, and in any case, at the latest, within 30 days of receipt of the request, without prejudice to prevailing legitimate reasons and without prejudice to the need, promptly communicated to the interested parties, for a possible extension for the reply;

e) the implementation of a technical and organizational procedure, in the campaign management system, which allows the Company to know and correctly govern, as well as adequately document, the phenomenon of calls addressed to so-called ""off-list"" users, as well as guarantee that these users are contacted for promotional purposes only if a suitable consent is available or on the basis of another detailed and documentable legal basis pursuant to articles 6 and 7 of the Regulation;

f) the adoption of organizational and technical measures aimed at documenting and respecting the denials of "non-listed" subjects, as well as circulating such denials also among their own partners, so that they do not proceed to contact the interested users;

g) the implementation of an organizational procedure, regularly verified and documented, aimed at a more efficient management of any future violations of personal data, guaranteeing, in particular, the relative communication without unjustified delay to the Data Protection Officer of this Company for the necessary assessments and communications to the Guarantor, as well as, where the conditions are met, to the interested parties whose personal data are involved in the violations; 

h) the adoption of organizational and technical measures, such as to ensure, constantly and effectively, the conservation of OLO customer data in compliance with the principles of correctness, legitimacy, purpose and minimization of processing, in order to proceed with the processing of data only adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the pursuit of legitimate purposes, as well as access to the same data exclusively to specifically authorized personnel;

i) the deletion of OLO customer data, if the terms expressly provided for by the law have expired (including the provisions of AGCOM and this Authority) and/or the legitimate processing purposes have been exhausted, provided that no legitimate reason is discernible prevailing to proceed with conservation;

l) the strengthening of the measures aimed at ensuring the quality, accuracy and timely updating of the personal data processed by the various Company systems;

m) the execution of specific and documented regression tests aimed at verifying, for each modification (corrective or evolutionary) concerning the systems that process personal data of customers, that the impact of the modification itself does not reduce the quality of the treatments carried out and the accuracy of the data processed;

n) the revision of the procedure relating to all the Apps which, possibly, present gaps similar to those noted above, so that they are fully described - in clear and easily understandable language and, if necessary, also by means of graphics - such as treatments are actually carried out by the Company with specific indication of the purposes pursued and the treatment methods actually used; a free and specific consent is acquired - distinct from the acceptance of the "terms of service" - for each of the purposes other than the provision of the service, as well as for administrative and accounting purposes;

o) the modification of the procedure for joining the "TIM Party" program, integrating the information provided in this regard, with an indication of the methods of treatment for promotional purposes (e.g.: paper mail; telephone calls with an operator; automated methods, such as messages, sms and/or pre-recorded phone calls) and making it possible to obtain consent for these purposes;

p) the modification of any forms similar to the self-declaration of possession of a prepaid line so that a suitable consent is collected for purposes other than contractual, administrative, accounting;

3) pursuant to art. 157 of the Code, requests TIM SpA to communicate, within 30 days of receipt of this provision, what initiatives have been undertaken or are intended to be undertaken in order to implement the provisions therein and in any case to provide adequately documented feedback; any failure to reply may result in the application of the pecuniary administrative sanction provided for by art. 83, par. 5, of the Regulation;

4) believes that the conditions set forth in art. 17 of Regulation no. 1/2019 concerning internal procedures having external relevance, aimed at carrying out the tasks and exercising the powers delegated to the Guarantor;

ORDER

pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. i), of the Regulations, to the aforementioned TIM SpA, in the person of its pro-tempore legal representative, to pay the sum of euro 27,802,946.00 (twenty-seven million, eight hundred, two thousand, nine hundred and forty-six), by way of administrative fine for the violations indicated in the justification; it is represented that the offender, pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 8, of the Code, has the right to settle the dispute by paying, within 30 days, an amount equal to half of the fine imposed;

ENJOYS

to the aforementioned Company, in the event of failure to settle the dispute pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 8, of the Code, to pay the sum of Euro 27,802,946.00 (twenty-seven million eight hundred two thousand nine hundred and forty-six), according to the methods indicated in the attachment, within 30 days of notification of this provision, under penalty of the adoption of the consequent executive acts pursuant to the 'art. 27 of the law n. 689/1981;

HAS

pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code, the full publication of this provision on the Guarantor's website.

Pursuant to articles 152 of the Code and 78 of the Regulation, opposition to this provision may be lodged with the ordinary judicial authority, with an appeal filed with the ordinary court of the place where the owner of the personal data processing has his residence, or, alternatively, with the court of place of residence of the person concerned, within the term of thirty days from the date of communication of the measure itself, or sixty days if the applicant resides abroad.

Rome, 15 January 2020

THE PRESIDENT
Soro

THE SPEAKER
Califano

THE SECRETARY GENERAL
Busia