 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, February 5, 2019

 

press release

 

Safe Internet? Or rather "I don't care":

Sobering result in data protection check

on Safer Internet Day 2019

 
 

 

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) has committed itself to Safer Internet

Day (SID) and examined websites with a very large reach. Although himself

some of the most prominent Internet services are among those tested, this falls

From a data protection point of view, the result is quite sobering: when dealing with passwords

and tracking tools, numerous deficits were identified, which are now grounds for

are visible procedures.

On today's Safer Internet Day, the BayLDA set itself the goal of making internet-based offers a little

to make it safer. On the one hand, the protective measures for passwords in online services were checked.

On the other hand, the tracking of users on websites using tracking methods was also examined.

Cyber security in the focus of the data protection audit

The security of a user account - and thus also the protection of the digital identity of the user - depends

depends on two factors: the user himself and the website operator. While giving a user a

can give tips on what measures to take to protect his login data

– e.g. B. to choose a strong password and also to use SMS codes for the registration – turns out to be the case

the question of how secure the services are. For this reason, the BayLDA had

supervisory authority decided to take a closer look at how website operators manage their users' passwords. 20

Online services that are very popular in Germany were examined more closely for this purpose - by social networks

via video streaming portals to online shops.

As a result, the BayLDA determined that none of these services required strong passwords from the user.

den, often even very weak passwords such as "123456", "password" or even "0000" are possible. Additional

Security measures and assistance for protecting the account is only offered by a manageable

number of services. Some test steps, e.g. B. which procedure the providers use to store the passwords securely

maintain, however, cannot be carried out by online checks. The BayLDA will therefore

Investigate points afterwards in the written procedure or on site at the Bavarian companies. The end-

Detailed results including a data protection assessment of the cyber security check can be found in the appendix

this press release.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

Data protection check "Tracking" (information & consent)

In addition, the BayLDA also examined 40 large Bavarian providers as to whether the users

rent will be informed about the integration of third-party providers, in particular tracking tools, on the website

the. The focus was also on the so-called “cookie banners”, which were used to obtain user consent

shall be. Here, too, the result of the check was desolate: the existing cookie banners are mostly annoying

not only improve the user-friendliness of the services, but are also completely ineffective in protecting against tracking.

On all examined websites that use cookie banners, neither the tracking of the website

Visitors prevented nor the requirements for a permissible consent according to the DS-GVO met.

President of the BayLDA, Thomas Kranig, summarizes the background and the result of the test:

“For this year's Safer Internet Day we have considered two special data protection controls.

On the one hand, we have checked various websites that we have selected ourselves, whether they are your responsibility

to live up to its reputation as a leading provider and protect users against attacks by cyber criminals

make sure of your own password. In the end, however, we mostly had to

find that the online services examined offer more than just opportunities for improvement in this regard

to have. As a new user, you are usually quickly guided through the registration process of the websites –

at the expense of good information and a sufficient level of security.

The second test component, on the other hand, did not only change because of the Safer Internet Day

but evolved from the fact that we've recently received an enormous number of privacy complaints from

citizens have received to Bavarian websites. Common basis of these complaints is that

Bavarian responsible persons would not use tracking tools in compliance with data protection. We have

therefore decided to organize large websites from Bavaria on Safer Internet Day, where we

permitted logging of surfing behavior, to be checked at the same time.

The focus was therefore on whether adequate information was provided about profiling and whether it was suitable

There is a legal basis for tracking. The result of this data protection check was clear

Worse than that of the cybersecurity audit: All websites audited commit privacy violations

when using the tracking tools. For the responsible companies, our audit will be a

have aftermath. We have decided to remedy these abuses and to initiate penalties

check money procedures. We expect large companies in particular to be able to

to comply with legal requirements."

 

The BayLDA provides the most important information in the appendix to this press release and on its own website.

information on the results of these two tests are available:

www.lda.bayern.de/media/sid_result_2019.pdf

Thomas Kranig

president

 

If you have any questions about the exam, you can reach us at presse@lda.bayern.de or 0981 53 1473.

 

Appendix: -1- Presentation of results for SID 2019

 

 

