1/10

968-150719

 Procedure No.: PS/00076/2020

RESOLUTION R/00387/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00076/2020, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority to BANKIA, S.A., given the claim filed
by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against BANKIA, S.A.
Notification of the initiation agreement and after analyzing the arguments presented, dated 5
On August 2020, the proposed resolution was issued, as follows:
transcribe:

<<
Procedure no.: PS/00076/2020

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated September 20, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. the claim
is directed against BANKIA, S.A. with NIF A14010342 (hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are your personal data remained in the
files of the entity despite having ceased to be a client 16 years ago.

The claimant states that more than 16 years ago he ceased to be a client of Caja Madrid,
Bankia and for personal reasons, has had to become a client again to
resolve an inheritance issue.

When carrying out this procedure, the BANKIA branch has informed him that he is still
being a client, with internal number ***CLIENT.1 with data that appeared to an address of
2002.

In order to solve the issues that led him to get in touch again with
BANKIA, has proceeded to modify the data related to your person, in an office of said
entity but they have not been able to explain why without having any contracted product, nor
debit/credit card, checking, savings or securities account, continued to have their
personal information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

For this reason, he files a complaint with this Agency because he does not understand how it is
they may have kept your data for so long, without being a customer.
.
SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On November 5, 2019, the claim was transferred to the entity claimed.
submitted by the claimant, for analysis, as well as to inform this
Agency as to whether the claimant had been contacted, and the decision
taken in this regard to resolve the situation.

The respondent states that the data remains blocked in accordance with the regulations
of data protection that allows its maintenance in this situation in which they are not
accessible.

THIRD: On June 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in the first place, it states the defenselessness produced as
consequence of setting the amount of the sanction in the initial agreement, despite the fact that
has not had occasion at any time to show before the aforementioned body
what could be the circumstances that could be applicable in the present case.

Secondly, it also states that it has approved, on the occasion of the full application
of the RGPD, a document called “Policy of conservation of the information of
Bankia, S.A.” (hereinafter, the "Policy"), which aims to:









the determination of the basic internal regulations regarding the conservation of the
information,

the establishment of the obligation to keep the information during the periods
required in each case, determined in said document,

the establishment of the essential measures of conservation of the information to
ensure the safety of this

provide a basic internal regulatory framework that facilitates decision-making
appropriate decisions in situations related to the conservation of
information.

This Policy was updated and approved again by agreement of the Board of Directors.
Administration of March 31, 2020, and it determines the different deadlines for
conservation and blocking applicable to the personal data of the interested parties.

Specifically, in accordance with the provisions of the Policy, BANKIA proceeds to
blocking of the personal data of its clients once the different
products or services contracted by those, through the identification and reservation of their
data, adopting technical and organizational measures to prevent their treatment, including

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

its visualization, except for making the data available to the judges and
courts, the Public Prosecutor or the competent Public Administrations, in particular
of the data protection authorities, for the demand of possible responsibilities
derived from the treatment and only for the term of prescription of the same, which results
fully consistent with the provisions of article 32 of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: On July 2, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
of a period of practical tests, taking into account the actions
preliminary investigations, in file E/10272/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: the claimant reports that their personal data has been kept by the
financial entity claimed despite having ceased to be a client 16 years ago.

SECOND: on November 5, 2019, the claimed entity was notified of the
claim filed by the claimant, for analysis, as well as to inform
to this Organization as to whether it had contacted the claimant, and the
decision adopted in this regard to resolve the situation.

THIRD: December 20, 2019, the entity claimed, does not solve the situation,
alleging that the data remains blocked in accordance with the data protection regulations
data that allows their maintenance in this situation while they are not accessible.

FOURTH: on March 31, 2020, the entity claimed has proceeded to update the
the Information Retention Policy of Bankia, S.A. and solve the facts object
of this claim.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

Likewise, in article 32 of the LOPDGDD, the blocking of data is regulated,

establishing the following:

"1. The data controller will be obliged to block the data when

proceed to its rectification or deletion.

2. The blocking of the data consists of the identification and reservation of the same,
adopting technical and organizational measures, to prevent their treatment, including their
display, except for making data available to judges and courts, the
Prosecutor's Office or the competent Public Administrations, in particular of the
data protection authorities, for the demand of possible responsibilities
derived from the treatment and only for the term of prescription of the same. elapsed
Within this period, the data must be destroyed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

3. Blocked data may not be processed for any purpose other than

that indicated in the previous section.

4. When for the fulfillment of this obligation, the configuration of the system of
information does not allow blocking or requires an adaptation that implies an effort
disproportionate, a secure copy of the information will be made so that
there is digital evidence, or of another nature, that allows proving the authenticity of the
same, the date of the blockade and the non-manipulation of the data during the same.

5. The Spanish Data Protection Agency and the regional authorities of
data protection, within the scope of their respective powers, may set
exceptions to the blocking obligation established in this article, in the cases in which
that, given the nature of the data or the fact that they refer to a number
particularly high number of affected, its mere conservation, even blocked, could
generate a high risk for the rights of those affected, as well as in those cases
in which the conservation of the blocked data could imply a cost
disproportionate for the data controller.”

III

It is considered proven that the respondent entity kept in its records the
personal data of the person claimed, despite the fact that 16 years have elapsed since their last
commercial relationship, since he had them when the claimant went
again to said financial entity to contract a new financial service in
September 2019.

Therefore, the defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation
of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, which regulates the principle of purpose limitation,
establishing that personal data will be collected for specific, explicit purposes
and legitimate, and will not be further processed in a manner incompatible with said purposes, as well
The same also establishes the proactive responsibility of the data controller
to demonstrate compliance.

IV

In response to the allegations presented, it should be noted that the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, on November 5, 2019, transferred to the entity
claimed from the claim filed by the claimant, for analysis, as well as for
to inform this Agency about whether he had contacted the
claimant, and the decision adopted in this regard to resolve the situation raised.

Despite this, the respondent stated that the data remained blocked.
in accordance with the data protection regulations that allow its maintenance in this
situation while they are not accessible, not solving the problem or updating your
data retention policy, until March 2020.

In this sense, it should be noted that, as indicated in the foundation

of law II, article 32.2 of the LOPDGDD, establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

“The blocking of data consists of the identification and reservation of the same,
adopting technical and organizational measures, to prevent their treatment, including their
display, except for making data available to judges and courts, the
Prosecutor's Office or the competent Public Administrations, in particular of the
data protection authorities, for the demand of possible responsibilities
derived from the treatment and only for the term of prescription of the same. elapsed
Within this period, the data must be destroyed. “

Therefore locked data cannot be accessible to security workers.
the offices of financial institutions, and yet it has been so in this case, as
as has been verified.

When talking about blocked data in the mentioned article, it means
that can only be accessible to judges and courts, the Public Prosecutor or the
Competent Public Administrations, in particular the authorities for the protection of
data.

On the other hand, it should be noted, in relation to his allegations of defenselessness, that
In article 64 of Law 39/2015, it is established with respect to the agreements for the initiation of
procedures of a sanctioning nature the following:

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a)

Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.

a) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible qualification
and the sanctions that may correspond, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator may
voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the effects provided for in article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that may be
adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in case of not
make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, it
may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pronouncement
precise about the imputed responsibility.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement there is no
there are sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate the
initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be made at a later stage
through the preparation of a List of Charges, which must be notified to the
interested."

Likewise, in order to apply article 85 of Law 39/2015, to which the
cited article 64.2 d) of said legal text, before pecuniary sanctions, the
offender may benefit from a reduction of 20 or 40% of the sanction, for
acknowledgment of responsibility, for prompt payment, or both, so for this, it is
It is essential to establish an amount, since if the amount of the sanction is not imposed,
the procedural rules established in law 39/2015 could be complied with.

It should be noted, however, that this does not prevent the completion of the
proceeding with a resolution that establishes a fine different from that of the settlement agreement.
beginning, if evidence or documents are provided throughout the procedure that accredit
that the assessment of the facts that are the object of this infringement must be different.

On the other hand, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what
established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
The infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

The infringement allegedly committed is typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD,
that considers that the violation of the basic principles for the treatment, including the
conditions for consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; will be penalized with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional, but significant, negligent action.

goes (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surnames,

address, telephone), according to article 83.2 g)

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
BANKIA, S.A., with NIF A14010342, for an infringement of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, in relation to article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD,
with a fine of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs you that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which will entail
a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this reduction, the
sanction would be established €40,000 (FORTY THOUSAND euros) and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned to the
Withdrawal or waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the
sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000
opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure
that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, by voluntary payment, of
reduction in the amount of the penalty. Likewise, you must send proof of admission to the
Subdirectorate General for Inspection to proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your
defense and present the documents and information that it considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 of the LPACAP).

BBB
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR
>>

 : On August 20, 2020, BANKIA, S.A. has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 40,000 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.
THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo
.

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00076/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANKIA, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

