media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*
07/13/2022

Saxon data protection officer will also
Transparency Officer

The state parliament passed the Saxon Transparency Act today.
From January 1, 2023, citizens have a right to
Access to information from Saxon authorities. Then have to
bodies subject to transparency requirements the required information upon request
to release. This includes, for example, expert opinions, studies and reports
or notices. In addition, the public administration will be obliged in future to
Provide information proactively. These publications should
by the end of 2026 at the latest on the so-called transparency platform.
Compliance with the Transparency Act is ensured by the Saxon
monitored by data protection officers. She takes on her duties to the fullest
Independence true, independent from instructions and only subject to the law.
dr Juliane Hundert: »The Transparency Act is an important step
to strengthen civil rights and our democracy. Access
government information is a prerequisite for active participation
in our democratic society. For that I will be
Employ transparency officers. Citizens can
contact me in the future if they violate their transparency requirements
look at. I also represent parliament, government and administration
at your side in an advisory capacity.«
The future transparency officer sees this as a priority
informing the public. 'So that the law can have its effect
unfold, it must also be known among citizens
be. This is certainly one of the most important things to do in the coming months
Tasks – not just for me, but for everyone to whom the transparent
rule of law is a concern," says Dr. Juliane Hundred
New task not yet considered in the position plan

Page 1 of 2

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

As the future transparency officer, Dr. Juliane Hundert up
their associated tasks. To hold this office within the meaning of
However, to be able to fill in the law, it is dependent on additional personnel
support in their authority. “In the budget process for
Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has all three for the 2023/2024 double budget
Bodies rejected in the Transparency Act for the performance of duties
are provided. I urgently appeal to the budget legislator
to improve here. The legal task of citizens
otherwise I can't support them, but also advise the administration
follow," emphasizes Dr. Juliane Hundert concludes.
Interested parties can nd information about the Transparency Act
soon also on the website of the Saxon Data Protection Officer.
About the Saxon data protection officer
The Saxon data protection officer is the independent one for Saxony
Data protection supervisory authority according to Article 51 paragraph 1 of the data protection
General Regulation (GDPR). This arises with regard to non-public
Bodies (e.g. companies and associations) from § 14 paragraph 2 of the Saxon
Data Protection Implementation Act; with regard to public bodies (e.g.
B. authorities) from § 14 paragraph 1 of the same law.
Since 2022, Dr. Juliane Hundert holds the office and will work in her office
supported by more than 30 employees in Dresden.
The Saxon data protection officer monitors compliance with the
data protection regulations and handles complaints from citizens
citizens. Other tasks include advising
Saxon responsible for data protection issues.

Page 2 of 2

