                                                           * UOOUX009TWYF *

Ref. UOOU-01297 / 16-48

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection, as the appellate body competent pursuant to § 2,
§ 29 and § 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., On the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts,
and pursuant to § 10 and § 152 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Procedure Code, decided on 8 August pursuant to § 152
paragraph 5 (a) b) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., as follows:

 
Appeal of the party to the proceedings, Mr. P. Ř., Against the decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection ref.
UOOU-01297 / 16-43 of 13 June 2016, is rejected and the contested decision
is confirmed.
 
 

Justification

 
On 13 June 2016, a decision of the administrative body of the first instance was issued, ref. UOOU-
01297 / 16-43, which was a party to the proceedings, Mr. P. Ř. (hereinafter referred to as the “party”), for
breach of the obligation stipulated in § 5 paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and for committing
offense pursuant to Section 44 (2) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., in the period from at least 2009 to 22.
May 2015, imposed a fine of CZK 5,000 and the obligation to reimburse the costs of the proceedings.
 
The basis for issuing this decision was the protocol on control ref. UOOU-04515 / 15-14 ze
on November 10, 2015, file material collected during the inspection performed
at the party to the proceedings by the inspector of the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the "Office")
JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová in the period from 12 April 2015 to 6 November 2015 and file
material collected during the administrative proceedings. The inspection was initiated on the basis of
complaint received by the Office on 14 April 2015.
 
It is apparent from the materials gathered that the party to the proceedings is the owner of the property at
address Č. ulice, B. (the house is situated roughly in the middle of the street in a continuous row of others
houses) and on the outer facade of the house towards the street No. has two cameras installed
recording equipment, including motion sensor responsive luminaires.
One camera is installed on the left above the windows on the ground floor, the other camera is
located to the right above the front door at the same height as the first camera. Cameras
monitor a part of Č. Street (ie a part of the street approximately 50 meters long), ie road, adjacent
sidewalks and real estate (family houses) located here in both directions from
the property in question (on both sides of the street it is a continuous row of houses).
In addition to the public road, the cameras in question also monitor individual houses and entrances to
of these houses, while the opposite house No. p. xxx (e.g.
entrance doors and windows) and the space in front of it. Camera system with recording device

 
 

 

was installed by an external company. The name of the company that installed the camera system
the party did not state that he no longer remembered her name and therefore did not even document the contract,
on the basis of which the camera system was installed.
 
The party to the proceedings primarily identified the prevention of illegal data as the purpose of processing personal data
negotiations - the possibility to provide the relevant administrative authorities and the city police tangible
evidence of violations of the ordinances of the city of B. and, last but not least, the protection of property and their health
families. Specifically, according to the party to the proceedings
act to prevent damage
parked vehicles and his property and their pollution by dog feces. He wanted to
to prevent theft, harassment and verbal and physical assault and to protect his or her
two vehicles parked in front of the house (in the past, according to the party, both were
vehicles repeatedly damaged, decorative wheel disks were stolen, the flag was broken on
antenna and broken mirror). After installing the cameras according to the participant in the damage proceedings
vehicles stopped.
 
The contested decision found that the party had committed an offense because
processed personal data with the described cameras without the existence of a legal title, ie in conflict
with § 5 paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.
 
Against the above-mentioned decision of the administrative body of the first instance ref. UOOU-01297 / 16-43
the legal representative of the party to the proceedings filed a timely appeal delivered to the Office on 4 July
2016 via data box.
 
In the appeal, the lawyer of the party to the proceedings states that he does not agree with the contested
decision, since, in his view, the party did not infringe any of his conduct
provisions of Act No. 101/2000 Coll ..
 
The legal representative of the party to the proceedings pointed out that in § 3 paragraph 3 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.
it is stipulated that this law does not apply to the processing of personal data which it carries out
natural person exclusively for personal use. Without being explicitly stated by the lawyer, it is possible
conclude that the purpose of that legislation is to claim that the said derogation from the scope
of the Act applies to the activities of the party to the proceedings. In this context, the lawyer further
stated that the administrative body had reached the wrong conclusions because its principal had
the record is available for its use only 24 hours after its acquisition. After this time, if
the record was not needed, it was automatically deleted from the technical device. The party to the proceedings
he did not make recordings systematically, nor did he purposefully collect camera recordings, because he is
very often on long-term business trips.
 
The appellant's lawyer further claims that there is no relevant administrative file
journalized so that anything can be added or removed as needed.
 
According to the party's lawyer, the party never used the records
to publish the entities, used them only as evidence obtained for law enforcement agencies
proceedings, or for state administration bodies. In such a case, therefore, he could not act
affect the interests protected by Act No. 101/2000 Coll.
 
At the end of his appeal, the legal representative of the party to the proceedings, on the basis of the above
claims that the contested decision should be annulled.
 
The appellate body examined the contested decision in its entirety, including the process which
preceded its publication, and reached the following conclusions.
 
According to § 4 letter a) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. is personal information any information concerning
designated or identifiable natural person, data subject. The data subject is considered to be designated
or identifiable if it can be directly or indirectly identified. In the sense of the above is
capturing the appearance of a natural person on a camera recording with personal data. According to § 4 letter E)

 

2/5

Act No. 101/2000 Coll. personal data processing is any operation or system
operations which the controller systematically carries out with personal data, either automatically or
by other means. The processing of personal data means, in particular, the collection,
storage, making available, modifying or modifying, retrieving,
use, transmission, dissemination, publication, storage, exchange, sorting or combination,
blocking and liquidation. The operation of a camera system is the processing of personal data
especially if, in addition to camera surveillance, the recording is made
shots or information is stored in the recording equipment at the same time
Acquired records are their use to identify individuals in relation to a particular
negotiations. According to § 4 letter j) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. is a controller of personal data everyone
the entity that determines the purpose and means of the processing of personal data carries out the processing
and is responsible for it.
 
In other words, the party to the proceedings, as the administrator, determined the purpose and means of personal processing
data and personal data through a camera system.
 
The arguments of the party 's lawyer concerning the exceptions to the scope
Act No. 101/2000 Coll. the appellate body states that in the previous proceedings there was
demonstrated that the participant in the proceedings record from the camera system for some time
the length of retention of the video is not decisive. As indicated
in the inspection report, the party has been monitoring the proceedings almost continuously for many years
an area of at least 50 meters of the street, ie an area where his argument that
protects your property. It was therefore by no means a random gathering
personal data, application of the provisions of § 3 paragraph 4 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. therefore it is not
in this case possible. Personal data were processed by the party to the proceedings because they were
stored on an information carrier (camera recording) and also with this personal data further
the party to the proceedings worked (evaluated them and sent some of them to the Police of the Czech Republic
and the Municipal Office in B.).
 
The party 's lawyer in the appeal lodges that the party
processes personal data exclusively for its own needs. For the processing of personal data
the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled on camera for its own use
in its judgment in Case C-212/13 of 11 December 2014, František Ryneš v
Office for Personal Data Protection, where it is considered the processing of personal data
processing such as correspondence or management for personal use only
address book. If the camera collecting personal data captures - albeit partially -
public space, and is therefore focused outside the private sphere of a person, cannot be his
considered to be exclusively a personal or domestic activity. The appellate body therefore
having regard to these legal arguments and the conclusions of the Court of Justice of the European Union
states that the scope of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. applies because
the cameras operated by the party to the proceedings were focused primarily on public space,
that is, outside his purely personal sphere.
 
Argument of the lawyer of the party that the file concerning the administrative proceedings
with the party to the proceedings is not journalized (lawyer apparently, as in the Slovak
legislation means that the file is not sv bound ’) so that anything can be added to it as needed
or also cut out is absurd. The rules for keeping the file, including the insertion of documents, are
clearly stipulated in § 17 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., in Act No. 499/2004 Coll., on archiving
and the File Service and on the amendment of certain laws, and in the related internal regulations of the Office.
Each file kept at the Office includes a file overview where they are recorded
all documents (including video, audio and electronic recordings)
media) embedded in it. Furthermore, it is in accordance with the provisions of § 15 para. 2 and para. 4 of the Administrative
in each file, an official record of the authorized officials in that file shall be kept
management. The file is kept in writing and electronically, while both versions have the same content
and the electronic file service automatically records every access to the file and every change

 

3/5

its items or the documents contained therein. Any arbitrary removal or addition
documents by an administrative body or a party to the proceedings is completely excluded. Your claim
that the file is not "journalized" and that it could have been manipulated, the party does not
although he inspected the file on 31 March 2016. Allegation of insufficient "journalism"
of the file is thus either a purely purposeful misinterpretation, or it results from misunderstanding or ignorance
elementary rules of keeping an administrative file in the Czech legal system.
 
As such, the appellate body states that the party to the proceedings operates
camera system with recording without the consent of data subjects (residents or
passing or passing through Č.). For the purpose of processing personal data declared by him
(protection of the property and health of the party to the proceedings and members of his family) is possible in addition to consent
concerned, which was not in progress
management is documented, which, moreover, given
to an unlimited circle of affected persons, in fact it is not even possible to consider only use
legal title according to § 5 par. 2 let. e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. Based on this legal
the administrator may process personal data if this is necessary for the protection of rights
and the legally protected interests of the administrator or other persons concerned, provided that
such processing of personal data will not be contrary to the right of data subjects to protection
their private and personal lives.
 
The need to process personal data without the consent of the persons concerned and the degree of interference with
their private and personal life, which could constitute a violation of this right, is always
subject to proportionality - necessity and proportionality assessment of the elected
the means to protect the rights and legally protected interests of the personal data controller, which is
interfered with the rights to protection of the private and personal lives of the persons concerned. He judges
the particular purpose of the processing of personal data, as it is essential that the personal data be processed
the data were not excessive and must be justified at each stage of the processing
scope of personal data.
 
In carrying out the proportionality test in this case, it was a first-instance administrative body
particular account of the type of premises taken by the party to the proceedings. No. street is made up of locals
roads with double-sided sidewalks adjacent to the continuous terraced development of family houses
near the city center B. People living here permanently have no other way to get to
your home than under the constant surveillance of cameras, as well as the people who this street
they go through it or visit it for personal or business reasons. Camera system
the passing vehicle is also scanned by vehicles passing through or parked there.
 
The party's lawyer states in the appeal that the party has been forced
to protect your property adopt this technical solution as before installing a camera
system, his property was still destroyed, such as the breaking of rear-view mirrors
on his car and intentional pollution of the sidewalk in front of his house excrement.
However, the party has not shown that there have been more serious past or present cases
incidents or damage to his property, his health and the health of his family members. On
a question from the inspectors as to whether he can submit records of reported damage to vehicles or
another defective act, he stated that he does not have such documents, as he has none
does not store. In this connection, he stated that he always reports defective actions to the police or to the
city council. At one time, that conduct was the subject of a civil action, but
whereas, in his view, the judge did not adequately assess the evidence (record
from the camera system), his action was not upheld. He stated that neither did this
he cannot prove it with any document, but he can obtain the document in court, which, however
did not do.
 
The legal representative of the party to the proceedings on the issue of legally protected interests of the party continues
states that he was physically attacked in the past and that they have documents from the Police of the Czech Republic
be established in the administrative file. The appellate body states that the party to the proceedings
did not provide any such documents during the administrative proceedings, the statement of the lawyer
the participant is thus not based on the truth.

 

4/5

more extensive monitoring,

 
From the materials provided by the Municipal Office B. it follows that the content of the vast majority
The complaints addressed to the Office by the party to the proceedings were a warning of public pollution
free range dogs.
 
For the sake of completeness, the Appellate Body refers to the fact that the Office's inspector relied on the
proportionality test and ordered a change in the shooting settings of both cameras in such a way
that the party to the proceedings ensures the protection of the real estate shell by operating a camera system
in his possession less
thus monitoring only
the immediate vicinity of the property owned by him. To achieve this, the supervisor
authority seems sufficient to capture the space in front of the property to the extent necessary,
a maximum width of 1 meter from the building envelope. When shooting in this way, it is possible to comply
with the provision of § 5 par. 2 let. e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. use a camera system
to protect property without the consent of the data subjects without unduly interfering with their data
privacy.
 
The party to the proceedings as a natural person does not have the status of a state body or a self-government body
and the general reporting obligation laid down by the Criminal Code for certain criminal offenses
does not entitle to systematic monitoring of all persons moving in a large part of Č. Street,
especially those living here permanently. Means and method of personal data processing
the party to the proceedings as the controller of personal data cannot take into account the above
considered reasonable. The processing of personal data by the party to the proceedings does not meet the conditions
provisions of § 5 par. 2 let. e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as it follows from the location of the cameras that
they do not only monitor the narrow space necessary to protect the party's assets.
 
The appellate body states that the administrative body of the first instance acted in full compliance with the
Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and duly substantiated its conclusions. They did not appear to contain decomposition
no facts that would alter the contested decision. Administrative sanctions
the tort was imposed on the party to the proceedings at the lower limit of the statutory rate.
 
On the basis of all the above, the Appellate Body ruled as set out in
opinion of this Decision.
 
 
Lessons learned:

pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act

Against
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

 
 
Prague, August 8, 2016
 

 
 

For correctness of execution:
Martina Junková
 
 
 
 

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů, v. R.

chairwoman

 

 

5/5

