1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00385/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated November 6, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548 (in
later, the claimed one). The reasons on which the claim is based are that on the 5th of
November 2018 when accessing your client area through the address
www.llamaya.com and when wanting to make inquiries about your telephone line
***TELEFONO.1 observes that their customer data has changed while their line is
associated with a third party being able to access its data (name, telephone,
home). The DNI that appears is still yours, as well as the bank account.
That he contacted the company Llamaya through the number 2376
explaining what happened and that when he carried out the portability everything was correct and
they open the incidence nº ***INCIDENCIA.1. The company confirms that it appears
that the line is in your name, but also in someone else's name.
And, among other things, attach the following documentation:

 Line contract with the previous company.
Invoice of the line with the previous company.


SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim, of the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which
this Agency has been informed, the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

On December 17, 2018, the complaint was transferred to XFERA
MOBILES, S.A. in the actions with reference E/10136/2018. The notification
figure delivered with acknowledgment date December 27, 2018. Not received
reply.

On April 1, 2019, these proceedings begin.

On April 9, 2019, the complainant sends this Agency the following
information:

1. States that the company Llamaya solved the error and put the

line in his name after which he ported to his current operator O2.

2. Provide a Llamaya invoice where your line appears and the name, surnames and

address of the third person.

3. Provides a screenshot of the Llamaya client area where the

personal data (name, surname and address) of the third person.

4. Provide invoice with your new O2 operator.

On May 10, 2019, XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. sends to this Agency the
Next information:

1. They state that as soon as they became aware of the incident, they adopted the
measures at its disposal to prevent any malicious action, as well as
to protect your client.
Provide a printed copy of the email addressed to the complainant
containing the following statements:

That they are interested in resolving the incidence and knowing the

a)
possible causes of it.
That the data of the possible contracted line have been modified
b)
fraudulently and are working on adopting the measures
timely in order to resolve the incident.
c)
that this circumstance does not occur in the future.

That new internal measures have been adopted in order to

1. They point out that what happened is still fully unknown and therefore they cannot
expose the causes that have originated the incidence. But, in view of the
known data, have suspicions of malicious action on the part of
a third.
They indicate that they have opened an incident ***INCIDENCIA.1, which will remain
subject to the result of the judicial activities that are followed when presenting
the facts communicated criminal appearance.

two.

3. And lastly, they state that actions are being taken internally
timely in order to implement new training measures, including
external advice, in order to reinforce the precautions that are
must be adopted by all the personnel of this operator involved in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

corresponding commercial processes, in order to avoid or, at least, make it difficult
malicious actions of third parties with special attention to attempts
of impersonation.

On July 1, 2019, XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. sends to this Agency the
Next information:

1. Provides the same answer, already sent to this Agency, dated 10

May 2019.

2. States that the client is currently unsubscribed from the 12th of

November 2018.
Provide a screenshot with the deactivation date.

1. States that the data of the other holder is no longer detected in the data of the

client.

2. Provide a document referring to the complainant with, among others, the following

data:

a. Name and surnames, DNI, postal address, email, date of

birth, contact phone.
b.
***TELEPHONE 1.

Contracted product stating the contract number and the line

THIRD: On November 19, 2019, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that: "it is agreed to communicate the
antecedents corresponding to this sanctioning file. Consider
as sufficient the explanations given and, in its reason, file this
sanctioning procedure and subsidiarily: Understand that it is appropriate to weigh,
for the attenuation of the sanction, two new mitigating factors of the categories
included in letters c) and K) of article 83.2 of the RGPD”.

FIFTH: On December 13, 2019, the instructor of the procedure
agreed to open a period of practice tests, taking into account
incorporated the previous investigation actions, E/02806/2019, as well as the
documents provided by the respondent, and the documentation that they
accompanies.

On December 12, 2019, a copy of the file was sent to the
reclaimed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

SIXTH: On January 10, 2020, it was issued and notified on the same date to the
claimed the Resolution Proposal, for alleged infraction of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, proposing a fine of
€30,000.

Xfera Móviles presented arguments to the Resolution Proposal, stating

which is reiterated in the allegations already made to the Home Agreement.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST:
  On November 6, 2018, the claimant files
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, stating that the
November 5, 2018 when accessing your client area through the address
www.llamaya.com and when wanting to make inquiries about your telephone line
***TELEFONO.1 observes that their customer data has changed while their line is
associated with a third party, being able to access their data (name, telephone,
home). The DNI that appears is still yours, as well as the bank account.
The company confirms that it appears to them that the line is in your name,
but also in the name of another person.

SECOND: Llamaya invoice where your line appears and the name, surnames and
address of the third person. Screenshot of the client area
Llamaya where the personal data appears (name, surnames and address of the
third person).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2
of the RGPD and in art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of Article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, which states that:
     "1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of
appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").
(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
of December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:
"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary
of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.
3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even
when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or
treatment manager”.
On the other hand, article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the
basic principles for treatment, including conditions for treatment
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance
with section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned RGPD, “with fines
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.
The regulation of infractions in the LOPDGDD is more precise in terms of the
situations that give rise to an infraction and its consideration, so that it is
much easier to know the limitation period of that infraction (that is,
if it is considered mild, serious or very serious) and with regard to the administrative sanction
impose for non-compliance.
The LOPDGDD in its article 72, for prescription purposes, states that they are:
“Infringements considered very serious:
1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”

III

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in
relation to article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, by disclosing to the
claimant the personal data of a third party, when entering your customer account.
The claimant has provided an invoice from Llamaya where his line and name appear,
surnames and address of the third person and screenshot of the area of
Llamaya client where the personal data appears (name, surnames and
address) of the third person.
The duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must be understood
which is intended to prevent leaks of data not
consented to by their owners.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not only
to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.
In this sense, the National Court pronounced itself in a sentence of 01/18/02,
in which Second Law Foundation, stated: "The duty of secrecy
professional that is incumbent on those responsible for automated files, …,
entails that the person in charge -in this case, the recurring banking entity- of
the stored data -in this case, those associated with the complainant- cannot
reveal or make their content known, having the “duty to keep them,
obligations that will subsist even after the end of their relations with the holder
of the automated file or, where appropriate, with the person responsible for it... This
The duty of secrecy is essential in today's increasingly
complex, in which advances in technology place the person in areas of
risk for the protection of fundamental rights, such as privacy or
right to the protection of the data that collects the article 18.4 of the CE. In
In effect, this precept contains an "institution to guarantee the rights to
privacy and honor and the full enjoyment of the rights of citizens who,
Furthermore, it is in itself a fundamental right or freedom, the right to
freedom from potential attacks on the dignity and freedom of the
person from an illegitimate use of mechanized data processing
(STC 292/2000)…”
Regarding what is alleged by the respondent, it is clear that in this specific case,
acted contrary to the principle of confidentiality enshrined in article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD, since the
claimed disclosed to the claimant the personal data of a third party, upon entering
your customer account.

IV

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its articles 83.1 and 83.2, when deciding the
imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case
will take into account the aggravating and mitigating factors that are listed in the
article indicated, as well as any other that may be applicable to the
circumstances of the case:
“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a
administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be duly
consider:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question,
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
that they have suffered;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor

to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put

remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in
related to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms

certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances
of the case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided,
directly or indirectly, through the infringement”.

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of

personal data processing.

c) The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the

infringement.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, and for the purpose of setting the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD for which the claimed party is responsible, they are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the entity

claimed.

Only one person has been affected by the offending conduct.
There is no evidence that the entity had acted maliciously,

although the performance reveals a lack of diligence.

Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatments

of personal data number of people affected.

The entity claimed is considered a large company.

 
The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the
RGPD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating what is established in its
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD allows a penalty of 30,000 (thirty thousand euros) to be set,
considered as "very serious", for purposes of prescription thereof, in 72.1.
a) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria

of graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548, for a
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €30,000.00 (thirty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations,
approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of the
Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the
sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document, in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A. Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out
the voluntary payment will be until the 20th of the following month or immediately after,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

and if it is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term
of payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or
directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber-
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within the term
of two months from the day following the notification of this resolution, would give
by the end of the precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

