 

National Crime Agency 
PO Box 8000 
London 
SE11 5EN 
 
By email only to:
 
6 September 2022 
 
Dear 

  

 

 

Case Reference Number INV/0821/2021 

I write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation into the 
incident regarding the NCA’s  failure to process exception reports, created by the 
use of Robotic Processing Automation (RPA). 
 
In summary, it is my understanding that this incident occurred when the NCA 
overlooked the importance of exception reports generated by the RPA between 
December 2020 and April 2021. The exception reports were to highlight where 
the work of the RPA could not be completed and manual officer intervention was 
required in order to complete the necessary work on Interpol circulations. Due to 
this oversight the exception reports were not actioned and as a result the 
cancellation of the data subject’s extradition order was not actioned which led to 
the incorrect arrest of the data subject.  
 
This case has been considered under the Data Protection Act 2018 (the DPA 
2018) due to the nature of the processing involved. 
 
Our consideration of this case 
 
I have investigated whether the NCA has complied with the requirements of data 
protection legislation. 
 
In the course of my investigation I have noted that was a significant number of 
exception reports that were not actioned during December 2020 and April 2021. 
From the evidence provided, there was a lack of oversight in relation to the 
manual verification process, and there was no policy, guidance or training to 
ensure the effective handling of exception reports.  
 
It is understood that the data subject was already in custody for another offence 
at the time of the incident, and as a result of the inaccuracy was further arrested 
in his cell for the extradition offence. When it was ascertained that the 

 

 

 

 
 

 to 

extradition was no longer sought, the data subject had then been detained for 18 
hours longer than necessary. 
 
Furthermore, the exception reports that were not actioned over the 4 month 
period have since been deleted. This does raise the concern that there may be 
further records which have not been amended and may still be inaccurate. 
 
However, the ICO notes that whilst there was no legal requirement for 
have informed the UKCA that the extradition was no longer sought, it is 
considered international courtesy and would have alerted the NCA to the 
amendment required. Furthermore, consideration has been given to a lack of 
staff resourcing which was exacerbated by both Brexit and Covid, and that the 
RPA system had to be developed at pace due to these circumstances. In addition, 
it has been noted that a NCA Officer proactively identified that there was a gap in 
process and so initiated a trial for the handling of the exception reports in April 
2021 which was a success.   
 
We have also considered and welcome the remedial steps taken by the NCA in 
light of this incident. In particular, that the importance of the exception reports 
has now been realised and it is now a daily priority task and a policy has been 
established that outlines the process for completing exception reports. Further to 
this continuous development and investment into the RPA system should ensure 
that future issues are highlighted.  
 
However, after careful consideration and based on the information provided, we 
have decided to issue the NCA with a reprimand in accordance with Schedule 13 
(2) of the DPA 2018. 
 
Details of reprimand 
 
The reprimand has been issued in respect of the following processing operations 
that have infringed the DPA 2018: 
 

•  S. 38 Data Protection Act 18. (accuracy) states the fourth data protection principle 

is that— 
(a)personal data processed for any of the law enforcement purposes must be 
accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date. 

 
In particular, NCA did not have a suitable in policy, process or training in place to 
action the exception reports which led to updates and cancellations to existing 
Interpol circulations. Appropriate oversight for this action was not in place by the 
NCA which is further demonstrated by the fact there were no records in place to 
demonstrate how often officers were manually processing cancellations.  

 

 

 

 
 

 
As a result, this led to inaccurate records being held by the NCA and the ultimate 
arrest of the data subject and demonstrates an infringement of S.38 of the DPA 
2018.  
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the NCA could take certain steps to improve 
compliance with DPA2018. In particular: 
 

1.  In order to ensure compliance with s.38, the NCA should continue to 

prioritise and manage the exception reports to ensure that the RPA 
continues to be an effective tool for the NCA to use and that the RPA is 
working accurately.  
 

2.  In order to ensure compliance with s.38, the NCA should ensure that all 
members of NCA staff complete annual data protection and information 
governance training.  
 

3.  In order to ensure compliance with s.38, the NCA should consider what 
steps can be taken to ensure that any outstanding exception reports are 
actioned. 

 
 
Whilst the above measures are suggestions, I would like to point out that if 
further information relating to this subject comes to light, or if any further 
incidents or complaints are reported to us, we will revisit this matter and further 
formal regulatory action may be considered as a result. 
 
Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 
 
As you are aware, we actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as 
this helps us to achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the 
public interest. 
 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

Therefore, we may wish to publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise 
our regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. This would be in 
accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement Activity Policy, 
which is available online at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico_enforcement_communications_policy.pdf  
 
We have noted your concerns in relation to such publishing, and will revert to 
you should we wish to consider publishing any details of this reprimand. 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
 
We now consider the matter closed. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 

Lead Case Officer 
Civil Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 

 

 

 
Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we 
exchange with third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, 
including the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can read 
about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  
 
The ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations and self-
reported data breaches it handles. These details include the name of the 
organisation concerned, the dates that we opened and closed the case, and the 
outcome. Examples of published data sets can be found at this link 
(https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-and-concerns-data-
sets/).  
 
We do not include personal data in the published datasets and will anonymise the 
names of sole traders etc prior to publication. We also do not publish cases 
concerning domestic CCTV complaints and may not publish certain other cases if 
we feel it is not appropriate to do so in the circumstances.  
 

 

 

 

 
 

If you wish to raise an objection to us publishing a case in the datasets, whether 
or not we have published it yet, please contact us explaining your reasons for 
this at accessicoinformation@ico.org.uk .  
 
Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential. You should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. 
However, please note that we will only withhold information where there is good 
reason to do so. 
 
For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

