DATA PROTECTION  ACT  2018  

(PART  6, SECTION  149)  

ENFORCEMENT  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER  

ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE 

DATED: 19  FEBRUARY  2024  

  
To:  Swale Community Leisure 
 
Of:  Bank Chambers, 1 Central Avenue, Sittingbourne, Kent, ME10 4AE 

 
   

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

 

 

   

Swale  Community  Leisure  (Registration  number  31132R)  (the 
Trust) is  a  “controller”  as  variously  defined in  section  3(6) of  the 
 
Data  Protection  Act  2018  (“DPA”)  and  Articles  4(7)  of  the  UK 
General Data Protection Regulation (“UK GDPR”). 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In accordance  with Article 26  of the UK  GDPR, for  the  purposes of 
this  Notice,  the  Trust  is  a  “joint  controller”  with  Serco  Leisure 
Operating  Limited  (Companies  House  number  04687478) 
(Serco). 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  Information  Commissioner  (“the  Commissioner”) issues  this 
Enforcement Notice to the Trust under section 149(2)(a) and (c) of 
the  DPA.  The  Notice  is  in  relation  to  contraventions  of  Articles 
5(1)(a), 6 and 9 of the UK GDPR. 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
This  Notice  explains  the  Commissioner’s  decision.  The  steps  that 
the Trust is required to take are set out in Annex 1. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  Commissioner  has  previously  served  the  Trust  with  a 
Preliminary  Enforcement  Notice  (“the  PEN”)  dated  7  November 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2023.  Serco  provided  written  representations,  on  behalf  of  itself 
 
and  the  Trust,  with  whom  it  acts  as  joint  controller  (as  described 
 
below)  (“the  Representations”)  in  response  to  the  PEN  on  5 
 
December 2023. The Commissioner has taken the Representations 
 
into  account  when  deciding  to  issue  this  Notice  and  refers  to  the 
 
 
Representations below when appropriate. 
 
 
Legal framework for this Notice 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 
 

 

7. 
 

 

 

The DPA contains various enforcement powers in Part 6, which are 
 
exercisable by the Commissioner. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Section 149 of the DPA 2018, materially provides: 
 
 
“(1) Where  the  Commissioner  is satisfied that a person has failed, 
 
or  is  failing,  as  described  in  subsection  (2),  (3),  (4)  or  (5),  the 
 
Commissioner  may  give  the  person  a  written  notice  (an 
 
“enforcement notice”) which requires the person— 
 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(a) to take steps specified in the notice, or 
 
(b)  to  refrain  from  taking  steps  specified  in  the  notice,  or 
 
 
both (and see also sections 150 and 151). 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(2)  The  first  type  of  failure  is  where  a  controller  or  processor  has 
 
failed, or is failing, to comply with any of the following— 
 
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

(a)  a  provision  of  Chapter  II  of  the  [UK]  GDPR…  (principles 
 
 
of processing); 
 
(b) …; and 
 
(c)  a  provision  of  Articles  25  to  39  of  the  [UK]  GDPR… 
 
 
(obligations of controllers and processors) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
2 

  

 

 

8. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
… 
 
 
(6)  An  enforcement  notice  given  in  reliance  on  subsection  (2)… 
 
may only impose requirements which the Commissioner  considers 
 
appropriate for the purpose of remedying the failure.” 
 
 
Section 150 of the DPA, materially provides: 
 
 
“(1) An enforcement notice must— 

 
 
(a) state what the person has failed or is failing to do, and 
 
(b)  give  the  Commissioner’s  reasons  for  reaching  that 
 
opinion. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
(2)  In  deciding  whether  to  give  an  enforcement  notice  in  reliance 
 
on  section  149(2),  the  Commissioner  must  consider  whether  the 
 
failure  has  caused  or  is  likely  to  cause  any  person  damage  or 
 
distress. 
 
 
(3) In relation to an enforcement notice given in reliance on section 
 
149(2),  the  Commissioner’s  power  under  section  149(1)(b)  to 
 
 
require  a  person  to  refrain  from  taking  specified  steps  includes 
 
power— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

 
(a)  to  impose  a  ban  relating  to  all  processing  of  personal 
 
data, or 
 
(b) to impose a ban relating only to a specified description of 
 
 
processing  of  personal  data,  including  by  specifying  one  or 
 
more of the following— 
 
 

 
(i) a description of personal data; 
 
 
(ii) the purpose or manner of the processing; 
 
 
(iii) the time when the processing takes place. 

   
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
… 
 

       
 

 

 
 
 

 
3 

  

 

 
9. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(4) An enforcement notice may specify the time or times at which, 
 
or  period  or  periods  within  which,  a  requirement  imposed  by  the 
 
 
in 
notice  must  be  complied  with  (but  see  the  restrictions 
 
subsections (6) to (8)).” 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Article  4(14)  of  the  UK  GDPR  sets  out  a  definition  of  “biometric 
  
data” as follows: 
 
 
“personal data resulting from specific technical processing relating 
 
to  the  physical,  physiological  or  behavioural  characteristics  of  a 
 
natural  person, which  allow  or  confirm  the  unique  identification  of 
 
that natural person, such as facial images or dactyloscopic data”. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
10.  Article 26(1) of the UK GDPR provides that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
“Where two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and 
   
means of processing, they shall be joint controllers. They shall in a 
 
transparent  manner  determine  their  respective  responsibilities  for 
 
compliance with the obligations under this Regulation, in particular 
 
as regards the exercising of the rights of the data subject and their 
 
respective  duties  to  provide  the  information  referred  to  in  Articles 
 
13 and 14, by means of an arrangement between them unless, and 
 
in  so  far  as,  the  respective  responsibilities  of  the  controllers  are 
 
determined  by  domestic  law.  The  arrangement  may  designate  a 
 
contact point for data subjects.” 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.  By  reason  of  Article  5(1),  the  UK  GDPR  includes  the  following 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
requirement: 
 

 

 

 
 
“5(1)(a) personal data shall be processed lawfully,  fairly and in 
 
 
 
to 
a 
the  data  subject 
 
(“lawfulness, fairness and transparency”)” 

 
 
 
in  relation 

 
transparent  manner 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
4 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
12.  Article  6  of  the  UK  GDPR  makes  provision  for  the  lawfulness  of 
 
processing. In particular for the purposes of this Notice, it provides 
  
that: 
 
 
“Processing  shall  be  lawful  only  if  and  to  the  extent  that  at  least 
  
one of the following applies: 
 
… 
 
(b)  processing  is  necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  contract  to 
 
 
which  the  data  subject  is  party  or  in  order  to  take  steps  at  the 
  
request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract; 
 
… 
 
… 
 
… 
 
(f)  processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  legitimate 
 
interests  pursued  by  the  controller  or  by  a  third  party,  except 
 
 
interests  or 
where  such 
 
 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require 
 
 
protection of personal data…” 

 
interests  are  overridden  by 

 
the 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
13.  Article 9(1) of the UK GDPR, provides: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
“(1)  Processing  of  personal  data  revealing  racial  or  ethnic  origin, 
 
political  opinions,  religious  or  philosophical  beliefs,  or  trade  union 
 
membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for 
 
 
identifying  a  natural  person,  data 
the  purpose  of  uniquely 
 
 
   
concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or 
 
 
sexual orientation shall be prohibited.” 
  

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
14.  Article 9(2) of the UK GDPR materially provides: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
5 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

 
 
 

  
“Paragraph 1 shall not apply if one of the following applies: 
 
… 
 
(b)  processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the 
 
obligations and exercising specific rights of the controller or  of the 
 
data  subject  in  the  field  of  employment  and  social  security  and 
 
social protection law in so far as it is authorised by domestic law or 
 
 
a  collective  agreement  pursuant  to  domestic  law  providing  for 
 
appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and the interests 
 
of the data subject; 
 
…” 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

      

 
(a) 
 

 
15.  Schedule 1, Part 1 Paragraph 1 of the DPA makes further provision 
  
for the application of Article 9(2)(b) of the UK GDPR, as follows: 
 
“(1) This condition is met if -
 
 
is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of 
the  processing 
 
performing or exercising obligations or rights which are 
 
imposed  or  conferred  by  law  on  the  controller  or  the 
 
data  subject  in  connection  with  employment,  social 
  
security or social protection, and 
 

 
(b)  when the processing is carried out the controller has an 
 
appropriate  policy  document  in  place  (see  paragraph 
 
39 in Part 4 of this Schedule)” 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
16.  Schedule 1, Part 4, Paragraph 39 of the DPA provides that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
   

 
“The  controller  has  an  appropriate  policy  document  in  place  in 
 
relation to the processing of personal data in reliance on a condition 
 
[in  Part  1,  2  or  3  of  the  Schedule  which  requires  the  controller  to 
 
have an appropriate policy document in place] if the controller has 
    
produced a document which – 

 
   

   

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
6 

  

 

(a) 
 

(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

for  securing 
explains  the  controller’s  procedures 
 
 
compliance  with  the  principles  in  Article  5  of  the 
 
GDPR…, and 
  
explains  the  controller’s  policies  as  regards  the 
 
 
retention  and  erasure  of  personal  data  processed  in 
 
 
reliance  on  the  condition,  giving  an  indication  of  how 
 
long such personal data is likely to be retained.” 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Background 
 
 

17.  The Trust is a leisure trust which operates 2 large public sports and 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

leisure facilities. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

18.  Serco  is  a  large  multinational  organisation  specialising  in  the 
 
delivery  of  public  services,  including,  for  the  purposes  of  this 
 
Notice,  leisure  services.  Serco  operates  leisure  facilities  on  behalf 
 
of community leisure trusts, local authorities and Sport England. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19.  Serco  provides  leisure  services  to  the  Trust  at  the  following 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facilities (the Relevant Facilities): 
  
 
a)  Sheppey Leisure Complex 
 
b)  Swallows Leisure Complex 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20.  As  part  of  the  operation  of  the  Relevant  Facilities  on  behalf  of  the 
 
Trust,  Serco  runs  the  day-to-day  management  of  the  centres’ 
 
employees. Some employees are employed by Serco, whilst others 
 
may be employed by the Trust. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.  The Trust and Serco are joint controllers (as defined in Article 26(1) 
 
of the UK GDPR) for the processing of employee data in connection 
 
with the running and management of the Relevant Facilities. A Data 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
7 

  

 

 

 
Protection  Agreement  is  in  place  between  the  Trust  and  Serco 
  
setting out the terms of the joint controllership arrangement. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
is 

 
 

 
 
jointly 

 
22.  By virtue of  the  joint controllership relationship  between the Trust 
 
 
and  Serco,  the  Trust 
liable  with  Serco  for  any 
 
infringements  of  the  UK  GDPR  and/or  the  DPA  in  respect  of  the 
 
processing  of  employee  data  in  connection  with  the  running  and 
 
management  of  the  Relevant  Facilities,  including  the  processing 
  
and the contraventions identified in this Notice. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
23.  The  Trust  and  Serco,  as  joint  controllers,  process  biometric  data 
 
(as  defined  at  Article  4(14)  of  the  UK  GDPR)  at  the  Relevant 
 
Facilities,  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  employee  attendance. 
 
Facial  recognition  technology  (FRT)  is  in  use  at  the  Relevant 
  
Facilities. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
24.  The FRT scanning systems are provided by SWT Software Limited, 
 
trading  as  ShopWorks,  which  acts  as  a  processor  (as  defined  at 
 
Article  4(8)  of  the  UK  GDPR)  on  behalf  of  the  Trust  and  Serco  as 
  
joint controllers. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 
25.  On 2 December 2019, a referral to the Information Commissioner’s 
 
Office Civil Investigations department was made after an employee 
 
of  the  Information  Commissioner’s  Office  observed  FRT  in  use  at 
 
 
another 
facility  managed  by  Serco.  The  Commissioner 
 
subsequently  opened  an  investigation  into  Serco’s  processing  of 
  
biometric data (Investigation). 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
26.  The Investigation found the following material facts: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
a)  The  Trust  and  Serco  are  joint  controllers  for  the  processing  of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  
biometric data using the FRT system. 

 

       
 

 
 
 

 
8 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
b)  The  Trust  and  Serco  were  using,  and  continue  to  use,  FRT  to 
 
 
collect  special  category  personal  data  for  the  purpose  of 
 
 
employment  attendance  checks  and  subsequent  payment  for 
  
employees’ time worked. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
   
 

 
c)  The  FRT  system  works  by  registering  employees  onto  an  FRT 
 
scanner, by having their photograph taken by the scanner three 
 
times.  The  scanner  uses  the  images  to  create  a  biometric  map 
 
based on the  employee’s  facial features. This map is encrypted 
 
and  held  within  the  scanner  itself,  which  also  holds  a  record  of 
 
the  employee’s  name  and  staff  number.  When  an  employee 
 
activates  the  scanner,  it  captures  an  image  of  the  employee, 
 
converts  this  into  a  biometric  map  and  attempts  to  match  this 
   
against  the  maps  stored  on  the  device.  If  the  scanner  finds  a 
 
match,  it passes  the  employee’s staff  number,  match  time  and 
 
location  to  the  ShopWorks  server  and  deletes  the  captured 
 
image.  If  the  scanner  does  not  find  a  match,  it  deletes  the 
 
captured image. A manager reviews and approves all employee 
 
hours recorded by the scanner at the end of each day and these 
  
can then be viewed on an employee self-service portal. 

   
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
d)  The  Trust  and  Serco  introduced  biometric  technology  because 
 
Serco considered that previous systems were open to abuse by 
 
 
employees.  Serco  explained  to  the  Commissioner 
its 
 
 
responses to enquiries and Representations that manual sign-in 
 
 
sheets were prone to human error and abused by a minority of 
 
 
radio-frequency 
employees.  Serco  also  explained 
 
identification  cards  were  used  inappropriately  by  employees  at 
 
one  facility,  where  cards  were  shared  and  kept  in  communal 
 
areas.  Serco  did  not  provide  any  figures  or  evidence  indicating 

 
that 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
9 

  

 

 

 

 

 
the number of employees “abusing the system”. It is not known 
whether  the  facility  at  which  this  occurred  was  one  of  the 
 
Relevant Facilities for the purposes of this Notice. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

e)  Serco considers that using biometric technology is the only way 
 
to  prevent  these  abuses  of  the  system  from  happening  in 
 
practice.  Serco  advised  the  Commissioner  that:  “biometrics  is 
 
 
the sole technology  capable  of eliminating buddy punching and 
falsified  time  cards”  and  that  biometric  solutions  are  “more 
 
accurate  and  secure  than  cards  or  keys,  because  a  fingerprint 
 
or face scan cannot be lost, stolen or (easily) replicated.” 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

   
 
 
 

f)  Serco  has  produced  both  a  data  protection  impact  assessment 
 
 
(DPIA)  and  a  legitimate  interests  assessment  (LIA)  for  the 
processing.  The  LIA  was  conducted  after  the  roll-out  of  the 
 
 
technology  and  following  contact  from  the  Commissioner.  The 
Trust  and  Serco  have 
 
identified  the  lawful  bases  for  the 
 
processing  as  Article  6(1)(b)  of  the  UK  GDPR  (contractual 
 
 
necessity)  and  Article  6(1)(f)  of  the  UK  GDPR  (legitimate 
interests).  The  Trust  and  Serco  have  identified  the  relevant 
 
 
processing  condition  for  special  category  personal  data  as 
Article 9(2)(b) of the UK GDPR (employment, social security and 
 
social protection), on the basis that the Trust and Serco need to 
 
 
process  attendance  data  to  comply  with  a  number  of 
regulations,  such  as  working  time  regulations,  national  living 
 
 
wage, right to work rules and tax/accounting regulations. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g)  Serco  advised  the  Commissioner  that  if  an  employee  raises 
 
concerns  regarding  the  use  of  biometric  technology,  and  does 
 
not  wish  to  use  it,  an  alternative  process  will  be  considered. 
 
Serco  stated  that  an  alternative  process  has  been  used  once 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
10 

  

 

 

 

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
where  the  scanner  was  unable  to  recognise  an  employee,  but 
have  not  specified  what  alternative  process  would  be  available 
 
(though  this  could  include  the  use  of  a  pass  or  card).  Serco’s 
 
original LIA (dated 24 March 2020) stated that “an opt out would 
 
 
be unsuitable” for the processing. This was updated on 28 April 
2021 to confirm that an alternative process would be considered 
 
if an employee were to raise concerns. However, this policy was 
 
 
 
not  in  place  for  some  time  whilst  biometric  technology  was  in 
use. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

h)  Taking  into  account  documents  and  responses  provided  to  the 
 
 
Commissioner  by  Serco,  the  information  given  to  employees  is 
not clear as to whether they are able to object to the processing 
 
 
in  practice.  Serco’s  Leisure  Standard  Operating  Procedure 
(LSOP)  states  that:  “All  employees  based  on  a  Contract  are 
 
 
expected  to  use  the  ShopWorks  platform”.  The  LSOP  further 
outlines the consequences of refusing to use the system (rather 
 
than objecting to its use): “All staff are … required to comply to 
 
 
use  of  tools  in  place  to  accurately  enable  capture  of  time  and 
attendance.  Non-compliance  or  refusal  to  enrol  may lead  to  an 
 
 
investigation and it may escalate to disciplinary action for failure 
 
to  follow  a  reasonable 
instruction  and 
 
 
operating requirement.” 
 

line  management 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

i)  When one affected data subject complained  to Serco about the 
 
use of FRT, Serco did not offer an alternative and instead offered 
 
to  arrange  a  meeting  between  the  affected  data  subject  and  a 
   
ShopWorks  representative  to  discuss  privacy  concerns.  The 
 
data subject  was  informed  that  they  would “be  required  to  use 
 
the ShopWorks… system” on their return to work. 
  

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 
11 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
j)  As per the DPIA, Serco has informed the Commissioner that the 
Trust signed off on the use of biometric technology for employee 
 
attendance monitoring purposes. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The contravention 
 
In light of  the  above  and on  consideration  of  the  Representations, 
 
 
the  Commissioner  finds  that  the  Trust  has  contravened  Articles  5 
(1)  (a),  6  and  9  of  the  UK  GDPR  in  that  in  its  role  as  a  joint 
 
 
controller,  it  has  failed  to  establish  a  lawful  basis  and  special 
category  personal  data  processing  condition  for  the  processing  of 
 
biometric data as required by Articles 5(1)(a), 6 and 9. 
 

 
 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 6 – lawful basis for processing 
 

     

 

 

 

 

 

27. 
 

 
 

28.  The Trust and Serco purport to rely on Article 6(1)(b) (contractual 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

necessity) and Article 6(1)(f) (legitimate interests). 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

29.  Regarding the Trust’s and Serco’s reliance on Article 6(1)(b), Serco 
 
states  that  the  processing  of  attendance  data  is  necessary  to 
 
 
ensure employees are paid correctly for the time they have worked. 
Although  recording  attendance  times  may  be  necessary  for  Serco 
 
to  fulfil  its  obligations  under  employment  contracts,  it  does  not 
 
 
follow that the processing of biometric data is necessary to achieve 
this  purpose.  The  processing  of  biometric  data  cannot  be 
 
considered  “necessary”  when  less  intrusive  means  could  be  used 
 
to  verify  attendance.  The 
 
intrusive  means  of  recording 
 
 
 
attendance times that are available to the Trust and Serco include 
using radio-frequency identification cards or fobs, or manual sign-
in  and  sign-out  sheets.  The  Trust  and  Serco  have  failed  to 
 
 
demonstrate why these less intrusive methods are not appropriate. 

 
less 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
12 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
Despite  Serco’s  assertions  that  these  methods  are  open  to  abuse, 
Serco has not been able to provide evidence of widespread abuse, 
 
nor  why  other  methods,  such  as  disciplinary  action  against 
 
employees  found  to  be  abusing  the  system,  have  not  been 
 
 
considered  to  be  appropriate.  The  Trust  and  Serco  cannot  rely  on 
Article 6(1)(b) to process biometric data, as the availability of less 
 
intrusive  methods  of  recording  attendance  data  means  that  this 
 
 
 
processing  is  not  necessary  in  order  for  the  Trust  and/or  Serco  to 
fulfil its employment contracts. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30.  Regarding the Trust’s and Serco’s  reliance on Article 6(1)(f), Serco 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identifies the legitimate interests as: 
 

 

 

 

  
 

  

a)  “to ensure Serco are paying staff members the correct salary 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
for the time worked; 
  

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

b)  “to support our administrative and business functions.” 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
   

 
   

31.  Legitimate  interests  will  not  apply  if  a  controller  can  reasonably 
 
 
achieve the same result in another less intrusive way. As described 
above,  Serco  has  not  provided  enough  information  to  support  its 
 
 
argument  that  eliminating  abuse  of  the  attendance  monitoring 
system  is  a  necessity,  rather  than  simply  a  further  benefit  to  the 
 
Trust  or  Serco.  There  is  a  lack  of  evidence  from  Serco  of  any 
 
 
consideration  of  alternative  means  of  handling  such  abuse,  for 
example 
 
individuals 
 
   
 
responsible  (which  Serco  acknowledges  constitute  only  a  minority 
of  employees).  Whilst  “necessity”  does  not  mean  that  the 
 
 
processing  must  be  “absolutely  essential”,  it  must  be  more  than 
just “useful” and be a targeted and proportionate way of achieving 
 
the  purpose.  In  this  case,  the  use  of  biometric  technology  to 
 
monitor  attendance  is  not  a  targeted  means  of  paying  employees 
 

taking  disciplinary  action  against 
 
 

 
the 
 

 
 
 

 
   

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
13 

  

 

32. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   
 

 
correctly  or  a  proportionate  method  of  overcoming  the  issue  of  a 
   
small number of employees having abused previous systems. 
  
 
In  applying  the  balancing  test  required  to  rely  on  legitimate 
 
 
interests,  the  Trust  and  Serco  have  failed  to  give  appropriate 
weight  to  the  intrusive  nature  of  biometric  processing  or  the  risks 
 
to data subjects. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

33.  The  Trust  and  Serco  cannot  rely  on  Article  6(1)(f)  as  Serco  has 
 
failed  to  demonstrate  the  necessity  of  the  processing  or  give 
 
appropriate  weight  to  the 
interests  of  data  subjects  when 
 
 
 
 
conducting  the  balancing  test.  Less  intrusive  means  of  achieving 
the results are available. Legitimate interests is not an appropriate 
 
 
lawful basis as: 
 
 
   
 
a)  The processing has a substantial privacy impact. Biometric data 
 
is  inherently  sensitive  due  to  its  uniqueness  to  the  person  to 
whom  it  relates,  and  the  increased  potential  for  harm  if  that 
 
data  is  compromised  (for  example,  allowing  access  to  further 
 
sensitive and private data such as bank accounts). In this case, 
 
 
employees  are  required  to  provide  biometric  data  that  will  be 
processed  regularly  and  systematically  as  part  of  their 
 
employment. This is a regular intrusion into employees’ privacy, 
 
over which they have no, or minimal, control. 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
b)  Employees  were  not  given  clear  information  about  how  they 
 
 
could object to the processing, or about any alternative methods 
of  monitoring  attendance  that  did  not 
intrusive 
 
 
processing. 
 

involve 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 

 

c)  There  is  an  imbalance  of  power  between  Serco,  as  employer, 
 
and  the  employees.  This  means  that  even  if  employees  had 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
14 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
been  informed  that  they  could  object  to  the  processing,  the 
Commissioner  considers  that they may  not have felt able  to  do 
 
so. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 9 – special category personal data processing condition 
 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

34.  The  Trust  and  Serco  sought  to  rely  on  Article  9(2)(b)  as  the 
 
  
processing condition for processing special category personal data 
however  initially  failed  to  identify  the  specific  obligation  or  right 
 
conferred  by  law.  Serco’s  Representations  identified  the  relevant 
 
laws in the context as: 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  Section 9 of the Working Time Regulations 1998, which requires 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employers to keep adequate records of timekeeping; and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b)  the  Employment  Rights  Act  1996  relating  to  the  correct 
 
payment of  wages,  including the  right under  Section 13 of  that 
 
Act  for  the  worker  not  to  suffer  unauthorised  deductions  from 
 
their wages. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these 
 

35.  However, these were not identified at the time the Trust and Serco 
 
 
began  processing  data  using  the  FRT  system,  nor  did  Serco  refer 
in 
to 
the 
laws 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner’s 
 
investigation.  The  Article  9(2)(b)  processing 
 
 
 
condition  does  not  cover  processing  to  meet  purely  contractual 
employment rights or obligations. 
 

 
 
to  enquiries  during 
 

 
 
 
its  responses 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

36.  The  Trust  and  Serco  have  not  produced  an  appropriate  policy 
 
document  as  required  by  Schedule  1,  Paragraph  1(1)(b)  of  the 
 
DPA. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
15 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
37.  The  Trust  and  Serco  have  also,  as  described  above,  failed  to 
demonstrate  that  the  processing  of  biometric  data  is  “necessary” 
 
for  Serco  to  process  special  category  data  for  the  purpose  of 
 
employment attendance checks or to comply with the relevant laws 
 
 
identified in the Representations. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
38.  The Trust and Serco cannot rely on Article 9(2) to process biometric 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data using FRT scanning technology. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

39. 
 

 

 

Article 5(1)(a) – lawful, fair and transparent processing 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

In failing to establish a lawful basis and processing condition under 
 
Articles  6  and  9  respectively,  the  Trust  and  Serco  have  failed  to 
 
comply  with  their  obligations  under  Article  5(1)(a)  to  process  the 
 
biometric data lawfully. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40.  The  Commissioner  also  finds  that  the  Trust  and  Serco  have  failed 
 
to  process  personal  data  fairly  in  accordance  with  their  Article 
 
5(1)(a)  obligations.  The  processing  of  biometric  data  is  highly 
 
intrusive  and  has  the  potential  to  cause  distress  to  data  subjects. 
 
 
Although  Serco  has  stated  that  alternative  mechanisms  for 
employees  to  log  their  attendance  will  be  available,  this  is  not 
 
clearly  brought  to  employees’  attention,  even  when  an  employee 
 
 
has  complained.  In  fact,  the  LSOP  explains  that  employees  are 
“expected”  to  use  the  biometric  technology,  that  the  use  of  the 
 
biometric technology is a requirement and that employees could be 
 
subject to disciplinary action if they refuse to use it. The LSOP does 
 
 
not set out how data subjects could object to any processing. 
 

   
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
41.  The  Commissioner  also  considers  that,  due  to  the  imbalance  of 
 
power  between  Serco  and/or  the  Trust  (as  employer)  and  its 
 
employees, it is unlikely that an employee would feel able to object 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
 
 
16 

  

 

 

 

 
to  this  processing.  It  is  also  not  made  clear  to  data  subjects  how 
 
they can make such an objection. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Are the contraventions identified deliberate or negligent? 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the  Commissioner  considers 
 
 

42.  Although  the  use  of  FRT  and  processing  of  biometric  data  are 
 
deliberate, 
 
the  resulting 
 
 
infringements  are  negligent.  Serco  appears  to  have  sought  to 
 
comply  with  data  protection 
its  deployment  of 
 
 
biometric  technology,  but  its  failure  to  meet  these  requirements 
 
 
indicates a lack of understanding of the UK GDPR. 
  
 

that 
 
 
 
 
 
in 
 

legislation 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43.  The  Trust,  as  a  joint  controller,  is  also  considered  to  have  been 
 
 
negligent  in  its  decision  to  sign  off  on  the  implementation  of 
technology that does not meet the requirements of the legislation. 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Issue of the Notice 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

44.  The  Commissioner  has  considered,  as  he  is  required  to  do  under 
 
section  150(2)  the  DPA  when  considering  whether  to  serve  an 
 
Enforcement  Notice,  whether  any  contravention  has  caused  or  is 
 
likely  to  cause  any  person  damage  or  distress. The  Commissioner 
 
has  decided  that  the  processing  of  biometric  data 
in  these 
 
 
circumstances  is  either  causing  and/or  likely  to  cause  distress  to 
 
 
data  subjects.  The  processing  of  biometric  data  is,  by  nature, 
 
 
highly intrusive. Due to the imbalance  of power between the Trust 
 
and  Serco  (as  employers)  and  their  employees,  the  relevant  data 
 
subjects are in a vulnerable position. There is evidence that distress 
 
has  been  caused  to  data  subjects,  including  the  receipt  by  Serco 
 
and the ICO of a complaint relating to the processing. 
  
 

   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
17 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
45.  Having  regard  to  the  contraventions,  Serco’s  responses  to  the 
Commissioner’s  enquiries,  Serco’s  Representations  and 
the 
 
 
 
duration  of  the  infringement,  the  Commissioner  considers  that  an 
 
Enforcement  Notice  would  be  a  proportionate  regulatory  step  to 
 
 
 
bring  the  Trust  into  compliance.  The  Commissioner  requires  the 
Trust to take the steps specified in Annex 1 of this Notice. 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
46. 
 

Consequences  of  failing  to  comply  with  an  Enforcement 
 
 
Notice 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If  a  person  fails  to  comply  with  an  Enforcement  Notice,  the 
 
Commissioner  may  serve  a  penalty  notice  on  that  person  under 
 
section  155(1)(b)  of  the  DPA  2018,  requiring  payment  of  an 
 
amount  up  to  £17,500,00  or  4%  of  an  undertaking’s  total  annual 
 
worldwide turnover, whichever is the higher. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
Right of Appeal 

 
 
47.  By  virtue  of  section  162(1)(c)  of  the  DPA  2018,  there  is a  right  of 
 
appeal  against  this  Notice  to  the  First-tier  Tribunal  (Information 
 
Rights),  part  of  the  General  Regulatory  Chamber.  Information 
 
about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Dated the 19th day of February 2024 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signed: 
  
 

 
 
 

       
 

 

 
18 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Anthony Luhman 
  
Temporary Director of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
19 
 

  

 

ANNEX  1  

 

TERMS  OF  THE  ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
By no later than the date three months from the date of the Enforcement 
 
Notice the Trust shall take the following steps: 
 
 
 
1.  Cease, or arrange for the cessation of, all processing of biometric data 
for  the  purpose  of  employment  attendance  checks  from  all  Relevant 
 
Facilities  (and  not  implement  biometric  technology  at  any  further 
 
 
facilities). 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

2.  Arrange for the destruction of all biometric data and all other personal 
 
 
and special category data that the Trust is not legally obliged to retain, 
including any such data stored by, or on behalf of, the Trust and Serco 
 
as  joint  controllers  (including  instructing  SWT  Software  Limited  to 
 
delete  any  such  data  held  on  behalf  of  the  Trust  and  Serco  as  joint 
 
controllers). 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
20 

  

 

ANNEX  2  

 

RIGHTS  OF  APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF  THE  

COMMISSIONER  

 
1.  Section 162(1)(c) of the DPA gives any person upon whom an 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enforcement Notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
 
First-tier  Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the  "Tribunal")  against  the 
 
Enforcement Notice. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  that the Enforcement Notice against which the appeal is brought 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
is not in accordance with the law; or 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b)  to the extent that the Notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
 
 
the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised his discretion 
differently 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  The Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could  have  been  made  by  the  Commissioner.  In  any  other  case  the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
4.  You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the following address: 
 
 
General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
 
LEI 8DJ 
 
Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
 
21 

  

 

 

5.  Any notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 days 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the date on which the Enforcement Notice was sent. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

       
 

 
22 
 

  

 

