  

 

 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
Berlin, March 15, 2022
 
 
Berlin data protection officer launches free online training courses for start-ups

and clubs

 

With a new educational offer, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and

Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) Start-up companies and associations in Berlin. In the future, the

authority offers regular online training courses on data protection. Interested parties can apply from today
Register for the first date on March 25th.
 

The Berlin start-up scene continues to grow rapidly and attracts founders from all over the world.

Many non-profit organizations are also based in the capital. Both young companies

as well as associations are often confronted with similar data protection issues and

only have limited financial resources for professional legal advice. Here offers the

BlnBDI support: In the future, the supervisory authority will provide the essential information in training courses

Basics of data protection law and practice-oriented knowledge that is tailored to needs

by start-ups and associations.

 

Volker Brozio, Acting Head of the BlnBDI: “We have had numerous since 2017

Founders in the popular start-up consultation hour on their data protection issues

advise. From this experience we have designed a series of events that

deal with fundamental topics and take up frequently asked questions. With our new online

We reach even more start-ups and clubs than before and give them what they need

We have the tools at hand to implement data protection-compliant solutions at an early stage.”

 

The start will be an event on the basics of data protection law on March 25th

2022. The focus is on the definition of personal data, the concept of

Data processing and possible legal consequences in the event of data protection violations. Further

Events, e.g. on the legal basis for data processing and use

of cookies or cloud services, will follow in the coming months.

 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

Friedrichstr. 219, 10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance: Puttkamerstr. 16-18

 

 
 
Phone: (030) 13889-900
Fax: (030) 215 50 50

Responsible: Nadine Baumann
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 
 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Internet: www.datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 



Representatives of start-ups, non-profit associations and small businesses can take part

based in Berlin. 50 places are available per event. More information about the

Training courses, the conditions of participation and registration can be found on the website of the

BlnBDI.

 

2

