1/7

Procedure No.: PS/00233/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on February 18, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against VIAQUA XESTIÓN INTEGRAL DE AUGAS DE GALICIA, S.A. with NIF A66141185
(hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the respondent has proceeded to

change the data that appeared in your contract, without your authorization or knowledge.

After the claim filed with said entity, it has been stated that the
Changes produced are a consequence of the request of the tenant that is in the
point of supply, providing as proof a recording, where a third party
identifies with a name and surname that has nothing to do with the tenant of the house
in question.

SECOND: In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the
claims that are formulated before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, foreseen
in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, which consists of transferring the
same to the Data Protection Delegates designated by those responsible or
in charge of the treatment, or to these when they have not been designated, and with the purpose
indicated in the aforementioned article, on March 28, 2019, transfer of this
claim to the claimed entity, so that it proceeds to its analysis and is given a term of
response of a month, not having received a response to it.

THIRD: On September 6, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, he stated that "he has acted at all times in
compliance with current data protection regulations and ordinances
regulations that regulate the water supply service in the Concello de Poio.

The petitioners' petitions have no legal basis, and derive from a
dispute between the latter, the tenant and VIAQUA, on issues related to the
nature of the water supply contract and the subsidiary assumption of payments.

In order to avoid management problems, the Municipal Tax Ordinance of Poio
provides in its article 3 that the holder of the supply contracts must always be the
owner of the property, without it being possible for the tenants of a dwelling
contract this supply themselves. It is admitted, however, that a person

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

other than the owner of the contract appears as the payer (generally, the tenant of the
property)

Until the change of bank account object of the claim, the receipts of the property
property of the claimant were charged in a completely normal way in a bank account that
was not owned by him, and that a tenant of the
dwelling whose data was processed as a beneficiary/taxpayer, being the owner
of the contract, owner of the property and subsidiary responsible for the claimant. Were the
data of the tenant which were modified in the telephone call of the 17th of
December 2017, by a user who claimed to be a tenant of the property and
answered the relevant security questions.

The claimant alleges that this change was made without her consent, but said
consent does not seem necessary, since the modification was made with
relation to the personal data of the beneficiary of the supply and not yours. By
logic, these changes may not require the consent or authorization of the owner,
since, in case of not giving it, a tenant could not modify the direct debit to another account
bank or unsubscribe as a beneficiary of the service after having moved to another
living place.

Consequently, the reported change in the account number did not refer to data from the
claimant. The claimant could not give authorization or consent to the change of a
your tenant's account number for another account number that is also not yours
ownership. The claimant cannot fail to appear as subsidiary responsible for
payments, as long as you own the property. No harm has been caused
for the actions of the defendant, which in any case has been governed in its actions by the
compliance with the regulations applicable to the water supply in the Concello de Poio.”

FIFTH: On September 25, 2019, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, E/03429/2019, as well as the documents provided
by the claimed on September 23, 2019

SIXTH: On October 8, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated, proposing
that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
VIAQUA XESTIÓN INTEGRAL DE AUGAS DE GALICIA, S.A., with NIF A66141185, by
an infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a
fine of €60,000.00 (SIXTY THOUSAND euros).

SEVENTH: On October 29, 2019, the respondent in the process of hearing made
the following manifestations:

It is considered that it has not taken into account that we are not dealing with an ordinary civil contract,
but before a drinking water supply contract, where, in compliance with the
current regulations, it is possible to make changes to the personal data of the beneficiary of the
service without the consent of the contract holder, as detailed below.

These rates, as municipal taxes that they are, are regulated by a fiscal ordinance
approved by the Council of Poio. The regulations applicable to their management, and
therefore, to the collection of the service by VIAQUA, is the "Regulatory Ordinance of the rate
for distribution service of water, gas, electricity and other public supplies,
including the rights to hook up lines and placement and use of meters and
similar facilities, when said services or supplies are provided by
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

local entities” published in the Official Gazette of the Province of Pontevedra on the 19th of
December 2013, in which article 3 establishes the following:

“1-The taxpayers of this Rate, in concept of taxpayers, are natural persons and
legal entities and the Entities referred to in article 33 of the General Tax Law that
be:

a) In the case of the granting of a network access license, the owner,

usufructuary or owner of the useful domain of the property.

b) In the case of provision of services of number 1, b) of the previous article, the
occupants or users of the farms of the municipal term beneficiaries of the
mentioned services, whatever their title: owners, usufructuaries,
tenants or tenants, including precarious occupants.

2-In any case, they will be considered as a substitute passive subject of the occupant or user
of the homes or premises the owner of the real estate, which may affect, where appropriate,
the fees paid on the respective beneficiaries of the service.”

Based on this precept, the respondent entity considers that the claimant as
is the owner of the property, responds as a substitute taxpayer in the event of
non-payment of your tenant.

Therefore, it considers that it can process the claimant's data for the purpose of
claim a debt corresponding to your tenant, and you should not appreciate a behavior
negligent on your part in it for not having your consent, since the
treatment derives from compliance with the regulations applicable to the management of a fee.

It also indicates that when the owner of the property and the occupant of the dwelling do not
coincide in the same person, have a direct relationship with the concessionaire of the
water service and can carry out procedures with it independently, depending on
of the position conferred by the Municipal Ordinance.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The respondent has proceeded to change the data that appeared in the contract,
without having the authorization or consent of the claimant, holder of the contract.

It provides as evidence, the recording in which the change in the number of
account, where a third party identifies himself with a name and surname that has nothing to do
with the tenant of the house.

SECOND: The respondent alleges that the petitions of the claimant lack
legal basis, and derive from a dispute between the latter, the tenant and VIAQUA, on
issues related to the nature of the water supply contract and the assumption
payments subsidiary.

It also indicates that although the claimant appears in the contract, it appears only
as jointly and severally liable, and that your consent to modify the contract data,
is not necessary, in accordance with a fiscal ordinance approved by the City Council
Poio, since the modification was made in relation to the personal data of the
tenant of the property, as the direct beneficiary of the supply, and not with respect to the data
of the claimant.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

In the present case, the defendant is accused of committing an infraction for
violation of article 6 of the RGPD, which states that: “The treatment will only be lawful if it is
meets at least one of the following conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for
one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is
part or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by
the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests are not
prevail the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that
require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested party is a
little boy."

III

In the present case we are talking about an infraction for violation of the
article 6 of the RGPD for the illicit treatment of the personal data of the claimant by not
have your consent as established by said precept, repeatedly influencing
the absence of infraction by the claimed party because her conduct is endorsed by a
ordinance, specifically the "Regulatory Ordinance of the fee for distribution service of
water, gas, electricity and other public supplies, including down payment rights
of lines and placement and use of meters and similar installations, when said
services or supplies are provided by local entities” published in the Bulletin
Officer of the Province of Pontevedra on December 19, 2013.

In this sense, it should be noted that if we relate said ordinance with
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the second prevails over the first, according to the principle
primacy of European Union law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

This is so since in repeated judgments of the CJEU, Van Gend & Loos,
Simmenthal or the Costa-ENEL judgment, it was declared that Community law is a
true legal system, something more than an International Law Agreement, and
reaffirmed the obligation of States to comply with original and derived law,
declaring that the primacy of EU law is a fundamental rule for the
existence of EU from which it is concluded that it is an existential condition with effect
exclusionary, making inapplicable the internal norm that is incompatible with the right
community.

IV

The infringement of article 6 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which

consider as such:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

c) transfers of personal data to a recipient in a third country or a

international organization under articles 44 to 49;

d) any obligation under the law of the Member States that is adopted

under Chapter IX;

e) Failure to comply with a resolution or a temporary or definitive limitation of the
treatment or suspension of data flows by the control authority with
under Article 58(2) or failing to provide access in breach of Article 58,
Paragraph 1".

v

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

SAW

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7th

6/7

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.2, when deciding to impose a
administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will take into account the factors
aggravating and mitigating circumstances that are listed in the aforementioned article, as well as any other
that may be applicable to the circumstances of the case.

Consequently, the following have been taken into account as aggravating factors:

-The nature, scope or purpose of the treatment according to article 83.2 a) of the
RGPD, since the claimed entity repeatedly requires the claimant to pay
a debt that is not yours.

-The negligence in the infringement; under article 83.2 b) of the RGPD, since the
entity claimed, in response to the request of the AEPD, alleges that it is lawful
claim of said debt, as jointly and severally liable, according to the applicable ordinances
to the water supply in the Concello de Poio

-No corrective measures have been adopted, according to article 83.2 c) of the RGPD, since
that the entity claimed, does not inform this Agency, about the measures adopted or the
proceedings in the claimant's case.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VIAQUA XESTIÓN INTEGRAL DE AUGAS DE GALICIA, S.A.,
with NIF A66141185, for an infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €60,000.00 (sixty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VIAQUA INTEGRAL MANAGEMENT OF
AUGAS DE GALICIA, S.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Real
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will
its collection in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be
until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this

Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of
the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
october. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two
months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would consider
The precautionary suspension has ended.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

