State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

press release

from 24 June 2020

 

 

The General Data Protection Regulation is having a positive effect –

State representative presents his last activity report

 

 

 

Today, the state commissioner for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt, Dr. Harold from

Bose, his XVI. Activity report handed over to the President of the Landtag, Gabriele Brakebusch

ben. This annual report 2019 was sent to the state parliament for information (LT-Drs.

7/6184).

 

The reporting obligation results from the order from the European data protection

Basic Regulation (GDPR). The report is therefore also submitted to the European Data Protection

Committee and sent to the European Commission.

 

The reporting period was to a large extent again due to the need for advice in the

with regard to the application of the new European data protection law (see No. 2.1).

The state representative continued to work in a variety of ways as a consultant, especially for small and

medium-sized companies (cf. nos. 14.1 to 14.3) and associations, and last but not least for people

in Saxony-Anhalt. The number of complaints and submissions continued to fluctuate

ahead at a high level; one focus continues to be in the field of video surveillance

(see Chapter 15). The authority acts in a practical manner in its advisory and control tasks

close and with a sense of proportion and also emphasizes the opportunities of intelligent data protection for the

responsible bodies.

The challenges of European law also affected legal policy issues

in adapting state law (advising the state government and state parliament,

2

see numbers 4.1.1, 9, 12.1.6, 13.1.3).

 

The authority of the state representative is due to the increase in tasks, also in the cooperation

ration of the European supervisory authorities (see No. 5.2), continues to be heavily used. To the

Case statistics 2019 see Chapter 3, for fines imposed see No. 16.2.

 

As in previous budget years, the 2020/21 double budget will remain

compared to the job registration in 2019, the approved staffing of the supervisory

authority far behind the actual need, because there are no new ones at all

position (see No. 2.2). Data protection in Saxony-Anhalt deserves more appreciation from

politics, and this does not just concern the budget.

 

Focal points of the activities of the authority of the state commissioner in the field of public

chen administrations concerned:

- Monitoring of e-government developments (see Nos. 6.1, 6.2),

- Advice on the use of fan pages on Facebook (see No. 7.2),

- Advice on school topics, such as the digital pact for schools and the education management system

and information on photography in schools (see nos. 11.2.1, 11.2.3, 11.2.6).

 

A relatively new digitization topic concerns the method of building information mode

ling (BIM); in the context of lectures it was stated that data protection is the BIM

projects (see no. 14.6). In addition, the topic of artificial

intelligence more and more into focus (see No. 1.2).

 

In the final phase of the report preparation, the corona pandemic delayed the completion

development, because there were many new questions about data processing in dealing with the

to check.

 

The activity report is available on the website of the state commissioner and can be

can also be ordered by telephone or in writing.

 

3

On the occasion of the presentation of his last activity report, the state representative drew a

preliminary balance of his more than 15 years in and for data protection:

 

“It was a fulfilling and challenging time. In the early years, the defense against

excessive encroachments on fundamental rights by the "preventive state" and a supposed

ches super law on safety in the foreground, have come through the supervision since 2011

add control tasks to the non-public area, especially in the case of commercial enterprises. the

I was able to accompany the reform of European data protection law intensively. The Sensitivity

The ability to deal with data protection issues has increased. The accusation that data protection

re data processing and cause bureaucracy, does not take action: the authority

shows how the data treasures can be raised with data protection. Also with others

I cleared up contradictions. Data protection and information security are

stand of consulting and design in digitization in society, economy and

Country. Saxony-Anhalt has to catch up when it comes to e-government, as I recommended years ago

a holistic, sustainable, binding and networked strategy. I have always

particularly interested in the future of privacy, including the many issues

which the data protection conference deals with. I already chaired it in 2006

inside That digitization not only has to be considered technically and economically,

but above all ethical (this is also the subject of educational concepts for mediation

of media competence), legal and political, is often not yet taken into account. Of the

The standard of freedom of data protection in a democratic society is success and

Trust factor - this is currently also evident in the measures to contain the

Corona pandemic.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg, postal address: PF 1947, 39009 Magdeburg

Telephone: 0391 81803-0, fax: 0391 81803-33

datenschutz.sachsen-anhalt.de

informationsfreiheit.sachsen-anhalt.de

Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

