

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the security of personal data of primary school pupils (Czech School Inspectorate)



Based on the notification of a breach of personal data security and an initiative, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the security of personal data during its processing by the Czech School Inspectorate. The content of the submission was information that there had been a breach of the security of personal data of elementary school students in the inspection system of electronic testing, and that , that made it possible to obtain the personal data of hundreds of pupils in the testing application, including the pupil's first and last name, class, name of the test for which the pupil is registered, and in some cases also general information that the pupil will have, as decided by the director the school test modified. Therefore, the inspectors concluded that personal data were not properly secured from at least October 29 to November 7, 2018, i.e. they were not protected against unauthorized or illegal processing, specifically against unauthorized access, using appropriate technical and organizational measures. The auditors found that the violation of personal data security occurred despite the fact that the controlled entity took certain technical and organizational measures to ensure security and implemented guarantees of processing and minimizing the risks of negative impacts on the rights and freedoms of data subjects (e.g. updating records of processing activities, control of access to personal data, logging).After learning about the security breach, the controlled person ensured that the system was stopped and the test application was subsequently modified so that personal data was properly secured. Pursuant to Articles 33 and 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the controlled person reported a security breach to the Office and notified it to the affected data subjects, respectively due to the fact that it did not have the contact details of the affected data subjects, it published a notice on its website and informed the school director, whose pupils were affected. The Authority found that the inspected person violated the obligations set out in Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) (integrity and confidentiality) and Article 32 of Regulation (security of personal data) (EU) 2016/679. Due to the fact that the inspected person promptly corrected the objectionable situation, the Office did not impose measures to eliminate the identified deficiencies. With regard to the fact that the Czech School Inspectorate is a public authority, the Office found it guilty of committing a misdemeanor in the administrative proceedings and pursuant to ยง 62 paragraph 5 of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. waived the fine. The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. Daniel Rovan. Recommendation: Following the risk assessment, the administrator must take appropriate technical and organizational measures. If, despite the adoption of these measures, a breach of personal data security occurs, the administrator must always document the case and further evaluate whether he is obliged to report the security breach to the Office, or notify the affected data subjects.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Education > Inspection of the security of personal data of primary school pupils (Czech School Inspectorate) View Current Documents | document archive | documents including the archive



