 

 

Moritz Körner 
Member of the European Parliament 
 
By e-mail only 
 
 
 
Dear Mr Körner, 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
Brussels, 7 July 2023 
Ref: OUT2023-0056 

Thank you for your letter of 09 November 2022 as regards your concerns on the new ‘private relay’ 
function designed by Apple and its interaction with Article 25 GDPR. 

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent European body, which contributes to 
the consistent application of data protection rules throughout the European Union, and promotes 
cooperation  between  the  EU  data  protection  authorities.  Thus,  the  following  analysis  is  focused 
entirely on the application of the GDPR.  

Article 25 GDPR provides for data protection by design and by default. This requires data controllers 
to have data protection designed into the processing of personal data and applied throughout the 
processing lifecycle. As a technology neutral legislation, GDPR does not imply any specific requirement 
in  order  to  fulfil  the  conditions  of  its  Article  25.  Data  controllers  are  accountable  for  choosing 
appropriate measures, given the circumstances for the specific processing. Hence, they are obliged to 
apply technical and organisational measures according to the principles of data protection by design 
and by default, while the choice of the concrete measures remains at their discretion.   

The EDPB welcomes initiatives by controllers and providers of telecommunication services to minimise 
data processing in the course of the provision of their services, and limit the risks to the rights and 
freedoms of natural persons, regardless of whether they are intended to fulfil applicable requirements 
to implement data protection by design and default, or go beyond legal requirements. Obviously, 
those initiatives should not interfere with other legal obligations of the entities implementing them, 
nor should they introduce new risks that exceed the ones they intend to mitigate. 

You  have  conveyed to  the  EDPB the concern of  European  network  carriers  that  the  private  relay 
function  introduced  by  Apple  would  prevent  them  from  fulfilling  their  obligations  under  current 
legislative acts. Considering the available information the EDPB is not in the position to assess the 
fulfilment of any obligations that might be impeded by the implementation of a technical arrangement 
designed to encrypt and divert traffic via different proxy servers. In principle, neither the provisions 

 

 

of the ePrivacy Directive, nor those of the GDPR affect or impede the fulfilment of legal obligations of 
controllers and providers of telecommunication services. 

In fact, if controllers use new technology when processing personal data it raises specific obligations 
for controllers for example when the processing of personal data may carry high risk to the rights and 
freedoms of natural persons, to conduct a data protection impact assessment in line with Article 35 
of the GDPR, and, when necessary, shall consult the competent supervisory authority prior to the 
commencement of processing of personal data in line with Article 36 of the GDPR.  

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Anu Talus 

 

