 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
June 9, 2020

 

 

 

 

  Smartphone security guide published

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.421.1

 

 

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has issued a new version of the
Advisory book "How secure is your smartphone?" published. The guide is aimed at
Young people and adolescents and explains in a way that is easy to understand the dangers involved in handling
threaten privacy with smartphones and what tips users can give
can protect themselves in the best possible way.
 
The handy brochure deals with known dangers in short, clear chapters, e.g. B.
Smartphone viruses, espionage and data theft, and also explains less obvious ones
Risk areas such as the creation of movement profiles or the use of unencrypted
WiFi hotspots. The guide also provides useful tips on how to
deletes personal information in accordance with data protection regulations before disposing of a phone or
given away and how to properly back up important data.
 
The guide, which was in high demand in the past, was published for the first time in 2008
published and is now available free of charge in the 3rd updated and supplemented edition. He
can be obtained as a printed edition from the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information requested and digital at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/publications/information materials/.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk
 
“Children and young people are growing up in an increasingly digitized world, that’s why
the subject of media education has been a focus of my work for years. For the
new edition of the guide to smartphone security, it was particularly important to me, young
Not only to sensitize people to the known risks, but also to specific ones
Giving advice on the best way to protect yourself. This
Of course, tips are not only useful for young people; also interested adults
I recommend reading.”
 
 
 
 
 

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

      