how safe is yours
smart phone?

Advice on data protection

How secure is your smartphone?

Advice on data protection

Editor:

Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information

Friedrichstr. 219
Visitor entrance: Puttkamerstr. 16-18
10969 Berlin
Telephone: 030 13889-0
Fax: 030 2155050
Email: mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de

Design: april agency GbR
Printing: ARNOLD group.

Status: March 2020

Contents

Introduction

1.  Viruses and Other Malicious Software

2.  Mobile data storage

3.  Espionage & data theft

4.  Backup

5.  Data Deletion upon Disclosure

 & Disposal

6.  Decoy calls

7. Localization (movement profiles)

8.  Eavesdropping

9.  Unencrypted Wi-Fi hotspots

10. Photos on social networks

11. Mobile Apps and Fake Apps

12. App Access Rights

13. Platform Provider AppStore

14. Unlock Code/PIN

15. Updates

3

4

5

7

8th

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

Introduction

your conversation!
Your messages!
your address book!
Your photos! Your music!
Your data!

Of course, you always have your smartphone with you. Are you doing
photos, play your favorite songs, stream mu-
sik, share your experiences, use them to manage your appointments
and contacts, surf the internet and use apps.

But this also applies: the more functions your smartphone has
has, the more vulnerable it is to various dangers. And
Of course, in the event of damage ultimately not
to regret your smartphone.

On the contrary: it is you who, through an exploited security
vulnerability may result in serious disadvantages
the has.

The German Basic Law grants you the right to “inform-
mental self-determination". After that you basically
lich the right itself over the disclosure and use
determine your personal data. You need to
but also pay attention to the protection of your data. In the
Dealing with smartphones e.g. B. There are a number of useful ones
Tips to keep in mind if you want to prevent
that the wrong people are looking at your call logs, your music,
your messages, your photos, just your personal ones
Smartphone data can come.

3

PERSONAL DATA: This is
to all possible identifiable details of a
concrete person. So in addition to obviously personal
related data such as your name, your birth
tag or your residential address etc. are e.g. B. also yours
Eating habits, your taste in music or the content
meant by phone calls. As sensitive (especially
sensitive) personal data apply
about your health, your ethnic origins and
such as your religious, political or sexual orientation.

This brochure will give you these tips: First,
do you drive where possible dangers to your personal
data in dealing with smartphones. Afterward
we will show you how best to counteract these dangers.

1. Viruses and Other Malicious Software

What has been well known from the PC for a long time does
has also been increasing in smartphones for some time.

VIRUSES, WORMS AND TROJANS: These are small ones
malicious programs that spread through different ways
spread independently from smartphone to smartphone
can. If such a program reaches your smart
phone, it can significantly impair its function
gen, spy on or delete your data and even
high costs (e.g. by sending so-called
premium SMS).

With the increasing range of functions of the devices, the
Danger of infection by smartphone viruses increased
men. It is therefore important that you take certain precautions
gen meet to protect your smartphone against the new dangers
to make immune. Possible gateways for viruses into your
smartphone are the download of ring tones, logos,
Games, apps and unprotected radio interfaces such as
Bluetooth and open WLAN connections (unencrypted
te, wireless internet connections).

4

So make sure that you have sent pictures, songs or
only accept files if you actually accept them
requested or the sender and his/her
really know. The receipt of unsolicited data
You can prevent this by using the Bluetooth function
of your smartphone to "invisible". Do you use
the radio interfaces of your smartphone only occasionally
then it is best to turn this off completely in the menu
switched on and only to be activated again when required. That's how you keep
you are always in control and dangerous programs
no access. There are now antivirus programs
for smartphones with Android operating systems.

Tip: Never use executable files
which are unsolicited in your smart
want to sneak in phone.

2. Mobile data storage

Many mobile phones and smartphones have a relative
big memory. They replace u. a. the conventional ones
USB sticks as mobile data storage. So of course apply
all safety instructions for USB sticks in connection with
computers equally for your smartphone.

The transmission of com-
computer viruses from one pc to another via an infected one
smart phone. Unfortunately, it also happens again and again that
mobile data storage devices are lost or stolen.
This means that your personal data can easily fall into the wrong hands
reach. It is therefore important that you take your smartphone with you
password that is as secure as possible or at least six
digit PIN entered when activating the device
must be practiced so that you can use your smartphone.

5

Be prepared for virus risks even when working on the PC.
not. Eighth e.g. B. always make sure that the computer to which
you connect your smartphone, have an up-to-date anti-virus
ren software features. Should there ever be a PC virus
have wormed their way into your smartphone, so make sure
that this is removed first before you connect the device to the
"healthy" computer at home or with your friends
and join friends.

SIM LOCK: In case you lose your smartphone
lost it or it was stolen from you, you should immediately
block the SIM card in your smartphone. There-
with is prevented that the thief (or finder)
can continue calling at your expense. To the lockdown
your smartphone dial the central blocking emergency call
116 116 and keep the phone number and customer number
mer of your mobile phone contract ready.

It is clear that you always protect your smartphone from loss
or protect against theft. However, since one can never
You should be careful not to send any sensitive data
stored unencrypted on your mobile memory.
Sensitive data is data with an increased need for protection,
such as B. your grades, your bank balance, your photos.

Tip: Always make sure you have an up-to-date anti-virus
Protect and store as little sensitive as possible
Data unprotected on the smartphone.

6

3. Espionage & data theft

Even without someone holding your smartphone
occurs, non-observance of certain safety
possible to access the data stored on it
long. Not only can you use the Bluetooth function
unsolicited files are sent to your smartphone
the. It can also be used on smartphones with security gaps
be possible for outsiders who are on it
Read out data and in extreme cases even every conceivable one
type of commands to execute.

To protect you from such Bluetooth attacks,
always test the latest version of the operating system
installed on your smartphone. Furthermore,
what has already been said about protection against smartphone viruses
was: Turn off Bluetooth function permanently and only
reactivate if necessary.

BLUETOOTH: Bluetooth is a radio transmission
technology for digital data. In smartphones it is used e.g.
B. to stream music to your headset or photos to an
to send their smartphone. The range of Blue
tooth connections is between 10 and 100 meters.
Because of the wireless connection, this technique
particularly vulnerable to attacks, e.g. B. of viruses. But also
the advertising industry is increasingly using Bluetooth.
There are Bluetooth-enabled billboards that you
demanded product information on your in passing
want to send smartphone. To use the Bluetooth interface
make your smartphone secure against attacks,
you should always set the function to “invisible” or
switched".

A particularly secure variant of data exchange
via Bluetooth represents the so-called pairing procedure.
In this case, communication is carried out on the two
the entry of the same password.
enough. Only if they match are the desired ones
Transfer data encrypted.

7

And one more thing: Your smartphone has a name! The-
You can find this in the "Settings" of your smartphone.
Other Bluetooth-enabled devices are given this name
displayed in the transmission area of your smartphone. To poten-
not presenting an overly obvious target to attackers,
think of a fantasy name for your smartphone,
which as far as possible does not suggest that the telephone
belongs to you

Tip: To prevent data theft attacks, de-
activate the bluetooth function of your smart
phones and stop the operating system software
up to date.

4. Backup

You have to decide for yourself how important regular
backing up the data on your smartphone. If you
actually only the phone numbers of your friends and
saved friends, then it is certainly enough to
to update the address book at home.

But there are also programs that save the data from your smart
phones with the appointment calendar and the address book
synchronize with the PC and update automatically. Look
Check the smartphone manufacturer's website.

There are also backup services for smart
phones. Note, however, that the Internet service all
gets your smartphone data.

Tip: Only use online backup services if they
are trustworthy.

8th

5. Deletion of Data upon Disclosure

 & Disposal

If you want to sell your old smartphone, give it away
or just throw away? Then you should
always make sure that your saved personal
data does not fall into the hands of anyone else.

To protect your smartphone from all personal data
must clean the SIM card and any existing ones
memory cards are removed. Also, you should about
the menu (if available) delete the following private data:

• Phone Book, Address Book or Contacts

• Calendar data, notes, to-do lists

• Video and sound files

• Connection data such as dialed or

answered calls

• Messages (SMS, MMS, emails)

• Internet data (cache memory, cookies,

Bookmark)

• Communication data (such as e-mail provider,

Bluetooth connection settings)

• Apps and their data

To do this, use the “Reset to factory settings” option
set". The function performs a "hard reset" at
the entire memory to the delivery state
is reset. Contains particularly sensitive data
on your smartphone, you should use a special delete
deploy software.

ATTENTION ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION: Old smartphones are allowed
not just be thrown in the dustbin, but
must be disposed of properly. bring your smart
phone to one of the designated ones for this purpose
public collection points or ask in your mobile

9

telephone shop or an electronics store, whether this
to take care of you.

Tip: Make sure that when passing on or disposing of
no personal data on your old smartphone
more on it.

6. Lure calls

Again and again it happens that fraudsters with
called "lure calls" by mobile phone owners
want to pull the money out of their pockets. There will be one
SMS sent to your smartphone (usually with a
contained question) or briefly on your smartphone
rang so that you could not manage to time the call
to accept. The scammer is now hoping that you have a
text back or the unknown caller
call back Is it then the recalled one?
You are the number one for a so-called “value-added service”.
a lot poorer and the scammer makes a living
the large number of callbacks a golden nose.

If the sender number begins with the digits "0137" or
"0900", or "+49137" or "+49900" or has the number
only 5-6 digits, there is definitely a value-added service
behind that can cost you dearly. So not
call back! Be careful with foreign phone numbers
me. They also start with a “+” or “00”, followed by
but a different number than the 49 (the 49 is the international one
Telephone area code for Germany).

Tip: It is best to never reply to SMS or
calls from unknown numbers,
to avoid unwanted costs from the outset
avoid.

10

7. Localization (movement profiles)

In order for you to be able to make calls at all on the go, you have to
your smartphone at the nearest mo-
Register a bilfunk transmission antenna. So your network knows
provider basically always where you are located.
If you summarize this information over a certain period of
together, it is also possible to use so-called "movements"
to create "supply profiles" of you, e.g. B. to learn where
you've been banging around all day long.

Creating such profiles of strangers is indeed
legally forbidden. However, there are providers who allow parents
their child's (or their child's phone) location
locate. Parents who resort to such measures do so in all
usually only out of concern for their children. Still belong
in a free society also the preparation for
a self-determined life and trust in maturity
and responsibility for educating adolescents to do so.
Also, an abuse of such location applications
cannot be ruled out outside of parent-child controls.

Your parents should consider this type of surveillance
pull or actually already do it, then talk to us
them about their reasons and your attitude towards this
take. The location of a switched-on smartphone
can be reduced to less than 100 meters by the mobile network operator
be determined precisely. Permission to such
Localization is, however, severely restricted by law.

With smartphones, on the other hand, there is much more of a risk that
highly accurate positioning techniques available in the device, such as GPS
be abused by some apps. You should
of the app, whether this really has the location function
needed. With every smartphone you can use individual apps
prohibit using the location functions. consider
apps for social networks beforehand whether you want to use such location
functions you really want to use and who you tell
want where you are right now. Because even through such programs
me (e.g. Facebook Places, Foursquare or through the live

11

Location on WhatsApp) a movement profile is created, which may
from the provider of the network or from some "friends"
dinnen" and "friends" can be abused.

Tip: Turn off your smartphone when you
don't carry it with you, or use at least
least a PIN-protected locking function. May be
careful with strange text messages
with content that seems strange to you,
such as reports on localizations carried out,
Registration confirmations or activation codes.
Only allow apps to access the location
feature you trust and this off
understandable reasons.

8. Eavesdropping

Cell phone conversation tapping is just like that
In principle, wiretapping of landline calls is possible. One
such a measure violates your fundamental rights.
About phone tapping by the mobile operator
it usually only comes up in the context of investigations
the police or other state security agencies
Suspicion of a particularly serious crime.

Smartphones can also be manipulated in such a way that
they can be bugged in rooms in which they are
condition. However, something like this requires complex changes
changes on the phone or installing a "sniffing
software". With such software, yours could too
Tapped into smartphone conversations and your messages
be read along. So pay attention to the instructions here as well
to protect against viruses and other malware.

12

You are also not allowed to make any secret sound or image recordings yourself.
take, e.g. B. from classmates and
teachers in class or during breaks. She
are not allowed because they violate the fundamental rights of those affected
affect.

PRIVACY: Of course you have to be careful that
your data stay with you as much as possible - pay attention e.g. B.
on who's listening when you're on the phone. Vice versa follows
but also that you yourself are your fellow human beings
not allowed to spy without permission. Also secret
sound recordings, e.g. B. in the classroom, are prohibited.

9. Unencrypted WiFi hotspots

Anyone can record and read your data traffic
sen, unless it is separately encrypted. a
encryption is e.g. B. recognizable by "https://".
However, even then, curious third parties can at least
read along to which servers (wikipedia.org., face-
book.com etc.) you connect (metadata).

Here are a few more tips that will help you deal with WLAN
Facilitate Hotspots:

• The operating system usually indicates which
WLANs are encrypted and which are unencrypted.

• Many chat apps, such as B. Threema and Signal,

encrypt all messages themselves.

• If you can connect to the WiFi and
then be redirected to a website where you
Accept the terms of use and possibly user
Entering your name and/or password is that
WiFi usually not encrypted.

Tip: Set the e-mail app so that e-mails are only sent via
encrypted connections can be retrieved and sent.

13

10. Photos on social networks

Think carefully about whether your private photos are really for the
should be intended for the general public. Above all, you should never-
times publish photos of friends
or tag them on photos without asking first.

Especially not if the photos are publicly visible and not
are only accessible to a certain group of people.
Because it is not allowed to single with a smartphone
Photographing, filming or filming people without their consent
men or these photos without the consent of the photographed
to publish.

Before posting photos of friends on social
networks, you should talk to your parents
wonder if that is allowed. your friends
should talk to their parents first, if
before they give you permission.

Tip: If you don't get tagged in photos
want, you should go into the settings of the social
len network to see if you can set
can that one is not marked. given-
if you can also restrict by whom
can be marked.

14

11. Mobile Apps and Fake Apps

Mobile apps (usually called apps for short) are available for different
those areas. Most of it is free, a small-
The other part, for mostly small amounts, has to be paid in the respective app
Store or Play Store can be purchased.

Make sure you install the correct app. Some-
sometimes there are counterfeit apps that have unwanted functions
include. These are apps that have no functions,
but cost money or secretly spy on users
(fake apps).

In recent years, dangers are self-installed
Smartphone apps have become more relevant. Please consider before
the installation of a new app, that these are usually not dated
manufacturer of the smartphone, but from sometimes dubious
liable sources. There are now countless
games for apps that send personal data to the manufacturer of the
Share app. For example, very often the stay
stop location determined or the phone book entries
passed on (e.g. on the Facebook smartphone app).

Before installing an app, you should therefore find out
agree who the manufacturer is, whether the app is from the shop operator
or smartphone manufacturer has been checked or whether
the ratings by other users
find a dubious provider. At the installation
you should think carefully about whether an app is really all
Data required to be queried or referenced by the app
requests access.

Tip: Do not agree to the installation of apps whose origin
future and purpose you don't know for sure - even if they
sent or recommended by a friend.
Check beforehand how many downloads the app already has
and how it is evaluated.

15

12. App Access Rights

The permissions that an app claims are often
figure ignored. Many applications access data from
mobile device that they are not entitled to – especially
Sensitive data worth protecting. Before installing
Apps you should change the app permissions in the App Store/Play
control stores.

Does the new game actually need access to the address
a book? Does a fitness app really need access to the ca-
mera? Does the manufacturer explain somewhere (e.g. on their web
page), what access rights the app needs for what?

How encroaching an app can be, you as a smart
phone user think twice before installing. You
you can also take a look at the data protection
throw statement. It should be explained there which data
the provider of the app processes and what he does with it.
In most cases, you can also set individual access rights after the
withdraw installation.

Tip: If necessary, you should
settings” of your smartphone go and
disable unwanted features.
 

16

13. Platform Provider AppStore

The apps are usually activated via a central, dated
Platform operators controlled service, the so-called
App Store installed. The AppStore enables the platform
form operator has control over the data entered on the platform
set applications. This can be beneficial as the
Apps checked before publication and so at least in principle
potentially dangerous and particularly data-hungry applications
be kept away from the platform.

However, the platform operator also experiences this in a special way
much about the users.

A possibility to use the knowledge of the platform provider
limit, the registration would be under an imaginary
names. In the meantime, however, i. i.e. R. the indication of
Mobile phone number required for higher security
security against account theft.

Tip: For purchasing apps or music, you should
you do not use a credit card, but on the
Prepaid cards from the providers that
you can buy anywhere anonymously.

17

14. Unlock Code/PIN

Every smartphone has a lock function that protects it from
unauthorized access. You should get an unlock code for
set your smartphone. That's how strangers come
not immediately to your data when you use your smartphone
lose or it is stolen.

It is advisable to use a PIN or password for this
to set. However, simple PINs like “1111” help
not much. A more complicated number combination should-
te it already be. If it's possible, so can you
set a “backup PIN” that will be needed if you
entered the wrong PIN ten times. The "reserve"
PIN” should be longer if possible. In which case
you can write them down and keep them safe at home
(but not in your wallet).

Tip: "Swipe codes" are not secure.
You can often see them on screen
recognize when looking at the smartphone
holds against the light.

18

15. Updates

New vulnerabilities are discovered every day. The
Smartphone manufacturers release updates that
to close security gaps. So that your smart
phone is protected, you should check updates from apps and from
Always install the operating system as soon as possible.

Tip: If possible, you should download the updates
as long as you are connected to a WiFi network. That's how you save
mobile data volume.

More information on the internet
www.datenschutz-berlin.de
www.data-kids.de
www.datenschutz.de
www.handy-sector.de
www.stiftung-warentest.de

19

This publication is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License and may be made, stating the author
Modifications and the license may be freely copied, modified and distributed.
Commercial use requires prior approval by Berliner
Commissioner for data protection and freedom of information. The full license
text can be found at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode.de.

www.datenschutz-berlin.de

