1/7

Litigation Chamber
 
                            Decision on the merits 05/2019 of
July 9, 2019

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2018-04887
 
Subject: Complaint for non-granting of access in connection with the withdrawal of an appointment
 
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr. H. Hijmans,
Chairman, and Messrs. D. Van der Kelen and J. Stassijns, members;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the
data protection) (hereinafter the "GDPR");
 
Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the
ACL;
 
Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on
December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Considering the documents in the file;
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 2/7

made the following decision regarding:

-
-

the plaintiff: Mr. Eric Van Cauwelaert
the defendant: the Federal Public Health Service; Eurostation II, Place Victor Horta 40,
box 10, 1060 Brussels
 
 

1. Facts and procedure

 

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

On September 13, 2018, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority
against the defendant.
 
The subject of the complaint concerned the failure to grant the complainant access to his data at
personal character. Despite the complainant's attempts - both by registered mail,
by simple mail or by e-mail - to know the reason for the withdrawal of its function of member
deputy of the Provincial Medical Commission of Limburg (Provinciale Geneeskundige
Commissie, hereinafter PGC Limburg), he received no reaction.
 
On October 4, 2018, the complaint was declared admissible on the basis of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA, the
complainant is notified under Article 61 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the Chamber
Litigation under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.
 
On October 23, 2018, the Litigation Chamber decides, on the basis of Article 58.2.c) of the GDPR and
of article 95, § 1, 5° of the LCA, to order the data controller to comply with the
request from the data subject to exercise their right of access.

 

On October 30, 2018, the parties concerned are informed by registered mail of the decision
taken on the basis of article 95, § 1, 5° of the LCA.
 
On March 4, 2019, the complainant again filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority.
given against the defendant, since the latter had not complied with the order of the
Litigation Chamber, thus forcing the complainant to exercise his right of access once again
but here too, the defendant did not follow up.

 

On March 19, 2019, the Litigation Chamber decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and Article 98
of the ACL, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

 

On March 19, 2019, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the provisions
as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. They are also informed
under Article 99 of the LCA, deadlines for transmitting their conclusions. The deadline for

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 3/7

the receipt of the defendant's submissions in response was set for April 19, 2019, that for the
submissions in reply of the complainants on May 20, 2019 and that for the submissions in reply of the
defendant as of June 20, 2019.

 

On May 21, 2019, the Litigation Division received the complainant's submissions in reply in
which he asserts that in the absence of submissions in response from the Respondent, he is not in a position
to replicate.
The Complainant's submissions contain his request to the Respondent to explain the
reasons why he was replaced as an alternate member in PGC Limburg,
despite the Royal Decree of November 15, 2017 appointing members practicing art
of the medical commissions, in which this function was actually attributed to him.
Then, the complainant retraces the history of his file. He also declares that he does not wish
only an explanation regarding the withdrawal of the position of alternate member of the PGC
Limburg but also that he demands damages. If it turns out that a solid motivation makes
failing that, he also demands the function of substitute member of the PGC.

 

On June 14, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the defendant's submissions in reply in
which he explains that after the signing of the Royal Decree of 15 November 2017 appointing
dental practitioner members of medical boards, in which the plaintiff complained
given the function of substitute member of the PGC Limburg, the publication of this decree was
prevented as a result of an administrative error. When drafting the new draft decree
royal, it was further also observed that the plaintiff himself had a file within the
PGC Limburg. Following this, it was decided to no longer retain the complainant as a member
deputy of PGC Limburg in the royal decree which was signed on June 6, 2018. Since the
two royal decrees had been signed, they both legally had to be published.
Their publication in the Belgian Official Gazette took place on June 21, 2018.
The defendant adds to this that the decision of the Litigation Chamber of October 30, 2018
regarding the order to comply with the complainant's request to exercise his right of access has not
been received. In addition, the letter from the Litigation Chamber of March 19, 2019 was not given to the
head of the competent department of the defendant only on April 19, 2019, which did not allow compliance with
the deadline of April 20 to submit the conclusions.
The defendant further points out that the plaintiff did not appeal the publication of the decree
of June 6, 2018 appointing the dental practitioner members of the commissions
medical.

 

On June 17, 2019, the parties are informed that it has been decided to proceed with a hearing, pursuant to
of article 46 of the internal rules.

 

On July 9, 2019, the parties are heard by the Litigation Chamber.

-

-

-

-

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 4/7

2. Legal basis

 

- Article 12.3 and 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation

 
3. The controller shall provide the data subject with information about the
measures taken following a request made pursuant to Articles 15 to 22, in
as soon as possible and in any event within one month of receipt
demand. If necessary, this period can be extended by 2 months, given the complexity
and the number of requests. The controller informs the data subject of
this extension within one month of receipt of the request.
When the data subject submits his request in electronic form, the
information is provided electronically where possible, unless the
person concerned does not request otherwise.
4. If the data controller does not comply with the request made by the person
concerned, he informs the latter without delay and at the latest within 1 month from the
the receipt of the request of the reasons for its inaction and the possibility of introducing a
complaint to a supervisory authority and to lodge a judicial appeal.
 

- Article 15 of the General Regulations

on

data protection

 

1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller confirmation that
personal data concerning him are or are not processed and, when
are, access to said personal data as well as the following information:
a) the purposes of the processing;
b) the categories of personal data concerned;
c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data
have been or will be communicated, in particular recipients who are established in
third countries or international organisations;
d) where possible, the retention period of the personal data
envisaged or, when this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this duration;
e) the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or
erasure of personal data, or restriction of data processing
of a personal nature relating to the person concerned, or the right to oppose this
processing ;
f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
g) when the personal data is not collected from the person
concerned, any information available as to their source;

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 5/7

h) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22,
paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, useful information concerning the logic
underlying data, as well as the significance and anticipated consequences of such processing for the
concerned person.

2. When the personal data is transferred to a third country or to a
international organization, the data subject has the right to be informed of the guarantees
appropriate, under Article 46, with respect to this transfer.

3. The controller provides a copy of the personal data making
the object of treatment. The controller may require the payment of fees
reasonable based on administrative costs for any additional copies requested
by the person concerned. When the person concerned submits his request by
electronic, the information is provided in a commonly used electronic form,
unless the data subject requests otherwise.

4. The right to obtain a copy referred to in paragraph 3 does not affect the rights and freedoms

from others.
 
 
 

3. Motivation

 
Given that the facts show that the defendant at no time acceded to the request of the
complainant to be granted access to his personal data in order to take
knowledge of the reason behind the decision to remove him from the position of alternate member of the
the PGC Limburg, the Litigation Chamber considers that the violation of article 12.3 and 4 of the GDPR as well as
that of Article 15 of the GDPR is established and proceeds to the imposition of a reprimand.
 
The explanations of the defendant's representatives, as presented during the hearing, confirm
the finding that several errors were made:
 

-

-

-

The defendant was grossly negligent towards the plaintiff by publishing to the
Belgian Monitor the decision to appoint him as an alternate member of PGC Limburg
and by immediately revoking this decision, also via publication in the Belgian Official Gazette,
thereby causing damage to the complainant's reputation.
Then, the plaintiff was left in complete ignorance as to the reason for this decision.
by the absence of any reaction on the part of the defendant to the plaintiff's request for access
in his file. Thus, it is clear that throughout the evolution of the case, the defendant did not
properly communicated with the complainant as part of their access request.
Furthermore, the right of access was disproportionately restricted by depriving the complainant
essential information, namely by not giving him access to the documents that were at

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 6/7

the reason for the revocation of his appointment. Despite his request to do so, he was not
informed of the reasons for reversing the decision to designate him as
alternate member of PGC Limburg.
In addition, the defendant did not comply with the Litigation Division's order to provide
the complainant access to his file, as stipulated in his decision under Article 95,
§ 1, 5° of the LCA.
Finally, the defendant indicates that the succession of errors is due to distribution problems
internal mail.

-

-

In view of the extreme negligence on the part of the defendant, the decision will therefore be published with
communication of the identification data of the defendant, as well as of the plaintiff. The latter gave
his explicit consent to this effect during the hearing.
 
The Litigation Chamber cannot accede to the plaintiff's request to receive damages.
interests, nor to her request to be reinstated as a member of PGC Limburg, given that she
does not have this skill. The Litigation Chamber rules only on compliance
data protection, in this case on the respect or not of the right of access. It does not belong
in no way up to the Litigation Chamber to judge whether or not it was fair to revoke the appointment of the
complainant as an alternate member of PGC Limburg.
 
In addition, the Litigation Chamber further draws attention to the following:

•

•

The whole of this procedure shows that the defendant did not take (sufficient)
internal measures to meet the obligations resulting from the GDPR, while the GDPR is
already entered into force on May 25, 2016 and has applied since May 25, 2018, which had
is widely publicized.
The Litigation Chamber considers it very important that organizations take the necessary measures
necessary, in accordance with the responsibility defined and elaborated in the GDPR. Bedroom
Litigation therefore emphasizes the importance for the defendant to put in place in the short term
term the necessary internal procedures in order to be able to ensure that the rights of the persons
concerned are guaranteed, as required by the GDPR.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Decision on the merits 5/2019 - 7/7

FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides with regard to the defendant, after
deliberation:
 

-
-

to issue a reprimand, pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA;
to publish this decision on the website of the Authority for the protection of
data, with the identification data of the parties, pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 16° of
the ACL.

Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of
thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of
given as a defendant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

