

Berlin, April 5, 2022


Press release 6/2022


  BfDI presents 30th activity report
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, handed over his activity report for 2021 to the President of the German Bundestag on Tuesday.



Prof. Ulrich Kelber hands over the 30th activity report to the President of the Bundestag, Bärbel Bas
Source: German Bundestag / Thomas Trutschel / Photohek

The pandemic situation also determined the issues of data protection and freedom of information last year. BfDI Professor Kelber said: But that doesn't mean that the rest of the world hasn't moved on. On the contrary: At the end of the legislative period, the old federal government presented a whole series of extensive laws, for example the IT Security Act or the new telecommunications laws TKG and TTDSG. My authority has also received many draft regulations from the Federal Ministry of Health, almost always with too short a deadline for comments.
In addition to pandemic issues such as questions about querying test, vaccination and convalescence status at work or updates to the Corona warning app, the BfDI has also dealt with the regulation of artificial intelligence and the handling of research data. In addition, the BfDI received 10,106 reports of data protection violations and 622 submissions related to the right to information in the past year. Citizens contacted the Federal Data Protection Commissioner with 6,829 complaints and submissions. The BfDI sees the introduction of cell broadcasting in Germany, which was decided in 2021, as particularly positive. With this technology, authorities can warn quickly and in a data protection-friendly manner in an emergency.
In the activity reports section you will find the current but also all previous activity reports of the BfDI.

The 30th activity report to order and download
30th activity report on data protection and freedom of information 2021 (PDF, 8MB, file is barrier-free)




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











