Opinion  10/2021 on the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Hungary regarding the approval of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of a  code  of  conduct
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR

Adopted on 23 March 2021

Adopted

Table of contents

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4
Analysis of the HU SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring

bodies 5

GENERAL REMARKS......................................................................................................... 5
INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 6
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8
EXPERTISE........................................................................................................................ 9
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................ 10
COMMUNICATION WITH THE HU SA ............................................................................ 10
REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................. 10
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 11
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 12
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 13

Adopted

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section 12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach.

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result,
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR.

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However,
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body.
There  are  a  number  of  requirements, which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

Adopted

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2)
GDPR to obtain accreditation.

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should
take  into  consideration  the code’s sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of
conduct and their monitoring bodies.

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring body  may  be
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each
code.

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair,
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject
matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Hungarian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “HU SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing
the accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its
opinion pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the
completeness of the file was taken on 26 January 2021.

ASSESSMENT

General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted draft  accreditation
requirements

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2)
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly
to ensure consistency.

Adopted

4.

5.

6.

7.

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and
medium  sized  enterprises.” (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore, the  Board  recognises  that  the
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk.

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.

When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the
HU SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the HU SA, which are outside the scope of article
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.

Analysis of the HU SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s
monitoring bodies

8.

Taking into account that:

a. Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct.

the Board is of the opinion that:

GENERAL REMARKS

9.

10.

The Board encourages the HU SA to include either in the draft accreditation requirements or in the
complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of the information or documents that
applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation.

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41(2)
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board’s opinion aims at ensuring consistency
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft. This means that, when
drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes according to articles 41
(3)  and  57  (1)(p)  GDPR,  all  the  SAs  should  cover these  basic  core  requirements  foreseen  in  the
Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly to ensure
consistency.

Adopted

11.

12.

13.

The Board observes that the draft requirements refer to terms that do not seem equivalent to those
included in the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). Examples of such terms include the following: to
the  authorisation  instead  of  accreditation, associations/organisations  owning  the  code  of  conduct
instead of code owners,  criteria  instead of  requirements, subcontractors instead  of  external staff,
competent  supervisory  authority  instead  of  NAIH.  The  Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  ensure
consistency of the relevant terms throughout the draft accreditation requirements.

The Board notes that under section 2 of the draft requirements, there is a reference to the suspension
of the accreditation procedure in case of cooperation procedure (GDPR, Article 60 para. 3 and 5) and
consistency procedure (GDPR, Article 63 to 66). It is not entirely clear from the draft requirements if
this refers to situations where the HU SA investigates a monitoring body that applied for accreditation
and there may be a cross-border matter. The Board encourages the HU SA to clarify at this point the
connection of the accreditation procedure of a monitoring body with the cooperation and consistency
procedures.

The Board observes, under section 2, of the HU SA’s draft requirements that “an accreditation term
will be initially set at three years at which time there would be a review to ensure that the monitoring
body  still  meets  the  accreditation  criteria”. In  addition,  the  Board  notes  that  the  administrative
procedure for granting or renewing the accreditation cannot exceed 180 days, as mentioned under
section 2 of the requirements. Therefore, the Board understands that a monitoring body that wishes
to renew the accreditation, should submit its application at least 180 days before the expiration of the
accreditation term. In order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the HU SA to provide transparent
information  on what  happens  after  the  expiry  of  the  validity of  the  accreditation  and  what  the
procedure will be.

14. Moreover, with regards to the list indicating which monitoring body is responsible for which code
members, as mentioned under section 3 of the draft requirements, the Board encourages the HU SA,
at the stage of application, to refer to the criteria to distribute their competences instead, since the
list of code members may not be fully completed at this stage.

15.

The Board observes that section 3 of HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes that, when
more than one monitoring body is seeking accreditation “the applicant must describe the competence
and  responsibility  of  the  monitoring  body  seeking  accreditation  in  the  application”.  The  Board
welcomes  such  inclusion  but  notes  that the  essential  elements  of  the  monitoring  body’s  function
should in any case be included in the code itself. To this purpose, the Board recommends that the HU
SA clarify in its draft requirements that the core elements of the monitoring body’s function will to be
included in the code of conduct.

INDEPENDENCE

16. With regard to the accountability of the monitoring body, the Board notes that the monitoring body
should be able to demonstrate “accountability” for its decisions and actions in order to be considered
independent. The Board considers that the accountability requirements in section 5 of the HU SA’s
draft accreditation requirements do not fully cover all the elements that should be taken into account.
The HU SA should clarify what kind of evidence is expected from the monitoring body, in order to
demonstrate accountability. This could be accomplished through such things as setting out roles and
decision-making  framework  and  its  reporting  procedures,  and  by  setting  up  policies  to  increase
awareness among the staff about the governance structures and the procedures in place. Thus, the
Board recommends the HU SA to strengthen the requirements for accountability, to allow for a better

Adopted

understanding  of its  content  in  relation  to  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body,  and  offer
examples of the kind of evidence that the monitoring bodies can provide.

17. With regard to section 5, paragraph 3 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes note of
all the elements demonstrating the monitoring body’s independence with respect to its organisational
structure.  Among  others,  it  is  stated  that  the  monitoring  body  must  not  be  penalised  for  the
performance of its tasks. The Board considers that it should be further clarified that the monitoring
body assumes responsibility for its activities, and it cannot be penalised by neither the code owner not
the code members. Therefore, the Board encourages the HU SA to redraft this part of the requirements
so that the monitoring body is protected against any dismissal or sanction, direct or indirect, for the
performance of its duties.

18. With  regard  to  section  5.1  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  observes  that  the  reference  to
organisational independence of the monitoring body is not entirely complete. The Board notes that
monitoring bodies  should  have  the  human  and  technical  resources  necessary  for  the  effective
performance  of  their  tasks. Monitoring  bodies  should  be  composed  of  an  adequate  number  of
personnel  so  that they  are  able  to  fully  carry  out  the  monitoring  functions,  reflecting  the  sector
concerned and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code of conduct. Personnel of
the monitoring body shall be responsible and shall retain authority for their decisions regarding the
monitoring activities. These organisational aspects could be demonstrated through the procedure to
appoint  the  monitoring  body  personnel,  the  remuneration  of  the  said  personnel,  as  well  as  the
duration of the personnel’s mandate, contract or other formal agreement with the monitoring body.
Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  HU  SA  to  provide  suitable  requirements  for  organisational
aspects  of  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  and  add  the  above-mentioned  references
regarding the independence of the monitoring body in performing its tasks and exercising its powers,
in accordance with the Guidelines.

19. With  regard  to  section  5.1  and  the  examples  provided  to  demonstrate  the  organisational
independence  of  the  monitoring  body,  the Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  clarify  under  the  last
example provided regarding the documents providing evidence of the business, financial, contractual
or other relations between the monitoring body and the association/organisation submitting the code
that this applies also code owners and not only to organisations submitting the code.

20. With respect to section 5.1 of the draft requirements, the Board notes that the HU SA refers to the
fact that the internal monitoring body reports directly to its highest management level. The Board
recommends the HU SA to amend this requirement in order to reflect the requirement, as provided in
the Guidelines, that the internal monitoring body has separate management from other areas of the
organisation.2

21.

Regarding section 5.2 on the financial independence of the monitoring body, the Board notes that the
boundary  conditions, which  determine  the  concrete  requirements  for  financial  independence  and
sufficient sources, are not been addressed. Such conditions include the size and complexity of the code
members (as monitored entities), the nature and scope of their activities (as the subject of the code)

2 EDPB, Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 2016/679, version
2.0, 4 June 2019, paragraph 65, at
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201901_v2.0_codesofconduct_en.pdf

Adopted

and the risk(s) associated with the processing operation(s). Therefore, the Board encourages the HU
SA to add the conditions, as above-mentioned to the relevant section of the requirements.

22. Moreover, with regard to section 5.3 “independence of personnel”, the Board observes that the draft
accreditation  requirements  refer  to  “appropriate  human,  technical  and  logistical  resources  to
effectively perform its monitoring tasks”. The Board encourages HU SA to redraft the relevant part of
the requirements by adding a reference to “sufficient number of sufficiently qualified personnel” and
including a reference to technical resources necessary for the effective performance of the monitoring
body’s tasks.

23.

24.

The Board takes note of the provision under section 5.3 “resources shall enable the monitoring body
to  perform its  monitoring  functions  in  a  fully  autonomous,  independent  and  impartial  manner”.
However,  the  Guidelines  provide  further details on  this,  stating  that  the  resources  should  be
proportionate to the expected number and size of code members, as well as the complexity or degree
or  risk  of  the  relevant  data  processing.  Thus,  the  Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  redraft  this
requirement in line with the Guidelines.

In addition, under the same section of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that “the
monitoring body must be responsible for its own personnel within the scope of its tasks and must be
entitled to take decisions on its own responsibility and without instructions”. The Board encourages the
HU SA to clarify this paragraph by adding that such instructions should not be taken by the code owners
and members within the scope of the code at stake, so to reflect the meaning of the Guidelines.

25. With regard to section 5.4 “independence of decision-making process”, the Board encourages the HU
SA to add under this paragraph that the monitoring body shall act independently in its choices and
application  of  sanctions  against  a  controller  or  processor  adhering  to  the  code,  so  to  reflect  the
meaning of the Guidelines (paragraphs 67, p. 22).

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

26.

27.

The  Board  observes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  internal  monitoring  bodies,  which  should  be
appropriately protected from any sort of sanctions or interference by the code owner, other relevant
bodies, or members of the code, as a consequence of the fulfilment of its tasks (paragraph 68, page 23
of  the  Guidelines).  The  Board  encourages  the  HU SA  to  provide  examples  that  include  internal
monitoring bodies.

As regard to section 9.1 of the accreditation requirements, the Board encourages the HU SA to clearly
state that in order to avoid conflict of interest, the monitoring body must, in particular, be free of
external (direct or indirect) influence and, therefore, it shall not seek nor take any instructions from
any person or organisation.

28. Moreover, the Board recommends the HU SA to clarify under this section 9.1 that the monitoring body
should have its own staff chosen by them or other body independent of the code and that the staff at
stake should be subject to the exclusive direction of those bodies only.

29.

The Board observes that the requirements under 9.1 of the HU SA accreditation requirements only
addresses  the  situations  in  which  there  is  a  conflict  of  interest  related  to  the  personnel  of  the
monitoring  body.  The  accreditation  requirements  should  also  reflect  other  scenarios  where  there

Adopted

might  be  conflicts  of  interest  of  the  monitoring  body  itself,  for  example,  due  do  its  activities,
relationships, organisation or procedures. Thus, the Board recommends the HU SA to amend the draft
accreditation requirements to reflect that the conflict of interests shall be avoided also in relation to
the monitoring body itself, and not only with regard to its staff.

30.

31.

Under section 9.1 of HU SA accreditation requirements, there is a reference to the process that the
monitoring body shall have in order to avoid and managing conflicts of interest. The Board considers
that the measures and procedures in place aiming at preventing conflicts of interest should ensure
that  the  monitoring  body  shall refrain from  any  action  incompatible  with  its  tasks  and  duties.
Therefore, the Board recommends that the HU SA includes in the accreditation requirements that the
procedures and measures in place to avoid conflict of interest ensure that the monitoring body shall
refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties.

The Board encourages the HU SA to add more examples to section 8 on how the monitoring body can
demonstrate  the  mitigation  of  conflict  of  interest  as  well  as  to include  relevant  documents  to
demonstrate how the conflict of interest will be mitigated, such as internal procedure and templates
to report a conflict.

EXPERTISE

32.

The Board observes that the in the accreditation requirements the HU SA makes distinction between
legal  and  technical  personnel. The  Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  clarify  that  the  technical
requirements of the personnel will depend on whether this is necessary for the code at stake or not.

33.

34.

35.

36.

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES

The Board observes that the HU SA refers, under section 7, of the requirements to the criteria to be
taken into account for the assessment of the established procedures to monitor compliance of the
code members with the code and for the periodic review of the operations of the code respectively.
However, the Board notes that the complexity and the risks refer to the code concerned and the data
processing activities to which the code applies, are not part of such criteria. Therefore, the Board
encourages the HU SA to amend this section so to include the complexity and the risks refer to the
code at stake and the data processing activities to which the code applies.

The Board notes that the HU SA makes reference under section 7.2 to the way that the inspections are
conducted.  The  Board  encourages  the HU  SA  to  redraft  this  requirement,  to  make  clear  that  the
inspections will be carried out in an independent manner.

In  addition  to  the  above,  the  Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  provide  equal  information  in  the
requirements  regarding  all  the  different  control  methods  it  deploys  (i.e.  self-assessment,  audits,
inspections, questionnaires and regular reporting).

The Board observes, that section 7.2, para 5 of the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements, refers to
verification requirement without specifying whether it is verification of applications to become code
member or verification of compliance of the code members. Therefore the Board encourages the HU
SA to redraft the text in order to follow the structure of this section.

Adopted

37.

38.

39.

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING

The Board takes note of the reference under 8.1, third para “The monitoring body shall demonstrate it
has  implemented  an  adequate  framework  of  procedures  and  structures  to  receive,  investigate  and
decide on complaints. Such procedures shall be transparent, easily understood and easily accessible to
the public as well as adequately resourced so as to ensure effective handling of complaints.” The Board
encourages the HU SA to further clarify this requirement so to make sure that it reflects the obligation
to make publicly available decisions or information thereof.

COMMUNICATION WITH THE HU SA

Under section 7.5 of the requirements the HU SA refer to the information that will provide to the HU
SA. The Board is of the opinion that the requirements need to address such areas as: actions taken in
cases of infringement of the code and the reasons for taking them (article 41 (4) GDPR), periodic
reports, reviews or audit findings. The code itself will also outline the communication requirements
with the CSA, including appropriate ad hoc and regular reports. In the case of serious infringements of
the code by code members, which result in serious actions such as suspension or exclusion from the
code, the competent SA should be informed without delay. Therefore, the Board encourages the SA
to amend this requirement accordingly.

The  Board  observes  that  the  HU  SA  in  its  requirements  refer  to  “changes  materially  affect  the
monitoring activities of the monitoring bodies”. The Board is of the opinion that the appropriate word
in  this  context  is  “substantial  change”  instead  of  “material”.  The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that
“substantial  change”  covers  any  change  that  impacts  the  monitoring  body’s  ability  to  perform  its
function independently and effectively. The Board recommends that the HU SA address the reporting
of any substantial change to the HU SA in the accreditation requirements.

40.

The Board encourages the HU SA to consider the following practical examples of requirements:





A monitoring body shall set out report mechanisms.

A monitoring body shall inform the competent SA, without undue delay, of any substantial change
to the monitoring body (particularly related to structure or organisation), which is likely to call into
question its independence, expertise and the absence of any conflict of interests or to adversely
affect its full operation.

41.

42.

The  Board  notices  that  sections  7.5  “Providing  regular  and  event-relevant  information  about
monitoring  body  activity  to  the  supervisory  authority”  and  section  8.3  “Communication  with  the
supervisory authority regarding complaints” overlap. Therefore, the Board encourages that the HU SA
merges these two section into one.

REVIEW MECHANISMS

In the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements, section 7.4 refers to confidentiality. In particular,
under this section it is stated that “the monitoring body is entitled to disclose confidential information
to the NAIH in order to help carrying out its supervisory authorities”. This last sentence seems to limit
the duty of the monitoring body to cooperate with the HU SA. Therefore, the Board recommends that
that  this  sentence  is  modified  to  reflect  that  the  monitoring  body  is  compelled  to  disclose  all
information to the HU SA.

Adopted

43.

The Board notices that under section 7.3 of the requirements, the HU SA makes reference to the review
of the code. The Board recommends that the HU SA amend this requirement so to include that the
new technological developments which may have an impact upon data processing carried out or the
provisions of the code should be also taken into account for the review of the code.

The Board notes that under section 7.3 of the requirements there is no reference to the fact that the
updating of the code of conduct is the responsibility of the code owner. The Board is of the opinion
that, in order to avoid confusion, a reference to the code owner should be made. Therefore, the Board
encourages the HU SA to amend this section accordingly so to include such reference to the code
owner.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

LEGAL STATUS

The Board observes that under section 4 regarding the legal status, the obligation of Article 41(4) of
the GDRP together with the section 12.8 of the Guidelines is not reflected in the draft requirements.
Therefore, the Board recommends that this section is modified in order to include that the monitoring
body and its related governance structures need to be created in a manner that the code owners can
demonstrate that the monitoring body has the appropriate standing to carry out its role under Article
41(4) of the GDPR.

The Board notes that under section 4 of the draft accreditation requirements, “the monitoring body
must  be  a  legal  entity  with  a  registered  office,  of  if  a  natural  person,  have  their  headquarters  or
domicile, to exercise the professional activity as monitoring body in the European Economic Area”. The
Board encourages the HU SA to clarify under this section, that not only the natural persons, but also
legal entities must have their headquarters in the European Economic Area to exercise a professional
activity as monitoring bodies.

The Board observes that the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements mention under section 4 that
natural persons can be accredited as a monitoring body. The Board encourages the HU SA to provide
additional requirements in order to demonstrate the availability of adequate resources for the specific
duties and responsibilities, as we all as the full operation of the monitoring mechanism over time.
Examples and scenarios to consider include: in the case of resignation or temporary inability of the
person concerned.

The  Board  recommends  that  the  HU  SA  require  that  the  monitoring  body  should  have  access  to
adequate financial and other resource requirements to fulfil its monitoring responsibilities, especially
for the accreditation of a natural person.

In addition, the Board considers that the existence of sufficient financial and other resources should
be  accompanied  with  the  necessary  procedures  to  ensure  the  functioning  of  the  code  over  time.
Thereby, the Board encourages that the HU SA amend the relevant section of the draft accreditation
requirements adding the above mentioned reference to “procedures” in addition to the “financial and
other resources”.

49. Moreover,  the  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation of  the  code’s
monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring
body being unable to perform the monitoring function. In this regard, it would be advisable to require
that  the  monitoring  body  demonstrates that  it  can  deliver  the  code  of  conduct’s  monitoring

Adopted

50.

51.

52.

mechanism  over  a  suitable  period  of  time.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  HU  SA  to  explicitly
require that monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time.

The Board observes that under section 4 “if the monitoring body is a natural person then it must prove
that it has the necessary human resources and, in the event of unforeseen event leading to a sudden,
temporary  or  permanent  loss  of  the  monitoring  body,  the  monitoring  activities  may  continue
uninterrupted”. The Board encourages the HU SA to clarify that this requirement does not apply only
to natural persons, but that it becomes even more essential when the monitoring body is natural
person.

In  addition,  for  purposes  of clear  and  consistent  structure  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board
encourages the HU SA to move the third paragraph of section 4 “If the monitoring body is a natural
person than it must prove that it has the necessary human resources and, in the event of an unforeseen
event  leading  to  a  sudden,  temporary  or  permanent  loss  of  the  monitoring  body,  the  monitoring
activities  may  continue  uninterrupted to  section  5.3  “independence  of  personnel”  of  the  draft
accreditation requirements.

The Board notes that the HU SA’s requirements allow for the use of subcontractors. However the Board
is of the opinion that the monitoring body should be the ultimate responsible for all decisions taken
regarding  its  monitoring  function.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  HU SA  to  specify  that,
notwithstanding the subcontractors’ responsibility and obligations, the monitoring body is always the
ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for compliance.

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

53.

The draft accreditation requirements of the HU Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made:

54.

Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1. amend their draft requirements to make sure that the latter are consistent with the eight areas
outlined by the Board in the accreditation section of the Guidelines 1/2019 on codes of conduct and
monitoring bodies under the GDPR.

55.

Regarding independence the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1. strengthen the requirements for accountability under section 5 of the draft requirements, to
allow for a better understanding of its content in relation to independence of the monitoring body,
and offer examples of the kind of evidence that the monitoring body can provide.

2. provide, under section 5.1 of the draft requirements, suitable requirements for organisational
aspects of the independence of the monitoring body and add references, as mentioned under para. 18
of  this  opinion,  regarding  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  in  performing  its  tasks  and
exercising its powers, in accordance with the Guidelines.

3. amend this requirement so to clarify that the internal monitoring body has separate management

of other areas of the organisation.

Adopted

4. clarify  in  its  draft  requirements  that  the  core  elements  of  the  monitoring  body  need  to  be

included in the code itself.

56.

Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1. clarify under section 9.1 that the monitoring body should have its own staff chosen by them or
other body independent of the code and that the staff at stake should be subject to the exclusive
direction of those bodies.

2.  amend  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  to  reflect  that  the  conflict  of  interests  shall  be

avoided also in relation to the monitoring body itself, and not only with regard to its staff.

3. include in the accreditation requirements that the procedures and measures in place to avoid
conflict of interest ensure that the monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible with its
tasks and duties.

57.

Regarding communication with the HU SA the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1. address the reporting of any substantial change to the HU SA in the accreditation requirements.

58.

Regarding review mechanisms the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1. modify the sentence “the monitoring body is entitled to disclose confidential information to the
NAIH in order to help carrying out its supervisory authorities” so to reflect that the monitoring body is
compelled to disclose all information to the HU SA.

2.  amend  the  requirement  provide  under  section  7.3  to  include  that  the  new  technological
developments which may have an impact upon data processing carried out or the provisions of the
code should be also taken into account for the review of the code.

59.

Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the HU SA:

1.  modify  section  4  in  order  to  include  that  the  monitoring  body  and  its  related  governance
structures need to be created in a manner that the code owners can demonstrate that the monitoring
body has the appropriate standing to carry out its role under Article 41(4) of the GDPR.

2.  include  in  the draft  requirements  the  fact  that  the  monitoring  body  should  have  access  to
adequate  financial  and  other  resource  requirements  to  fulfil  its  monitoring  body  responsibilities,
especially for the accreditation of a natural person.

3. explicitly require that monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over

time.

FINAL REMARKS

60.

61.

This opinion is addressed to the Hungarian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the HU SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision.
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to

Adopted

follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.

62.

The HU SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

