


Press release 4/2022


  New guidelines on Article 60 GDPR and "dark patterns"
The BfDI , Prof. Ulrich Kelber, is satisfied with the guidelines that the European Data Protection Board (EDSA) has decided: I am particularly pleased that the EDSA has decided on the consolidated guidelines for cooperation between data protection supervisory authorities in the cooperation procedure. In the EDPB, we work together to find constructive solutions to problems that the legislator has left open.



Source: Adobe Stock

The BfDI went on to say: This is also a strong signal for the citizens. The EDPB establishes transparently and clearly how lead and affected supervisory authorities cooperate in cross-border cases. My authority has been actively involved so that future procedures can be completed more efficiently and effectively.
The EDPB has also adopted new guidelines to protect users from adverse design patterns, so-called "dark patterns", on social media. Social media providers try to persuade users to consent to the use of their data by designing their offers. The EDPB now provides example cases with illustrations which design patterns violate the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or the ePrivacy Directive. In addition, the operators of social networks receive a number of recommendations for action.
The BfDI also sees a positive development for the citizens here: spying must not be a business model in Europe. If social media want to use the data of their users, then they must not be pressured into consent by unfair means.
The guidelines will be available shortly on the EDPB website.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











