

On the occasion of Safer Internet Day, the association Collaborators in Learning, CARNET and National CERT with partners are organizing the online conference "The Search for a Better Internet" this year, which will be held on February 7, 2023, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The goal is to send a strong message about the importance of preventing electronic violence, protecting children's personal data, creating a safe virtual environment and the availability of quality Internet content for children and young people.
Link to participate in the conference and program
The "Search for a Better Internet" conference is organized by the Association Collaborators in Learning, CARNET and National CERT with partners: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Agency for Electronic Media, Brave Telephone, Ombudsperson for Children, Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, Media Literacy Portal, Agency for mobility and programs of the European Union, the Agency for Education and Training, the CroAI association, partner schools of the Be an Internet Genius project, Oracle, Microsoft and Google.
Numerous great ideas and materials for workshops that can be held in schools on the occasion of Safer Internet Day, but also throughout the school year, are provided by Google's program Be an Internet Genius, which is implemented in Croatia by the association Collaborators in Learning.
This year, on the occasion of Safer Internet Day, the Learning Collaborators Association has also prepared the theater play Internet Geniuses, which will premiere on Thursday, February 9, 2023, at the Trešnja theater (Moščenićka 1, Zagreb) starting at 6 p.m. The show is designed for children from 8 to 12 years old, but it will be interesting for both younger and older children.
The Associates in Learning Association has been implementing various programs to raise awareness of the appropriate, responsible and safe use of the Internet since 2008, and the Be an Internet Genius program consists of various activities that build on the Be an Internet Genius curriculum, the Interland game, and a series of educational content that is were prepared by the association's mentors for Croatia. "Every school year, workshops for teachers are held, either live in schools, or online in the form of webinars and courses that show teachers in which ways they can implement these educational contents and activities in their schools", emphasizes Lidija Kralj, head of development at the association "Sudarnica". in learning.
In addition to teacher trainings, the association Collaborators in Learning also organizes workshops for children and parents where they have the opportunity to learn together how to be wise digital citizens, use the Internet safely and help each other, solving tasks while having fun and spending quality time together. The workshop for collaborative activities of parents and students from 1st to 8th grade of elementary school, which can be carried out as part of a parent meeting, open day or other school events, was designed by members of the Collaborators in Learning association, and instructional materials for workshop leaders , together with worksheets can be downloaded from the link: https://ucitelji.hr/big-materijali-za-roditeljski/.
The Collaborators in Learning Association has created a whole series of educational materials useful for teachers, parents and students:

Curriculum Be an internet genius
An adventure game that puts the key lessons of digital security into practice. The game enables children to create good habits in the digital world. It teaches them to understand digital interaction (and its consequences) in the safe, educational environment of Interland
5 reminders with quick tips for a safer internet
To cry
Materials for parents
Materials for teachers
Materials for students

and many other educational materials are available at: Associates in Learning Association.
Educational materials of AZOP:
How to protect personal data of children and school employees
Children and young people in the world of modern technologies
Citizens, know your rights
How to protect your personal information online


CONFERENCE PROGRAM
10:00 – 10:15 Opening: Nataša Glavor, assistant director for the National CERT and Darko Rakić, president of the association Collaborators in Learning
10:10 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Maja Hainc and Darko Rakić, Associates in Learning: Educational content and activities Be an internet genius
10:30 – 10:45 Dražen Oreščanin, CroAI: Privacy and data protection
10:45 – 11:05 Ana Dokler, medijskapismenost.hr: The influence of digital media on the mental health of young people - one of the most common concerns of young people and parents
11:05 – 11:25 Matija Cvek, AZOO: Digital reputation
11:20 a.m. – 11:45 a.m. Olivela Franko, Maria Martinolića Elementary School: How we deal with the challenges of the Internet at school
11:45 – 12:05 Kruna Crnjak, Brave Phone: Cyberbullying among students
12:05 – 12:25 Maja Novalić and Valentina Šakić Vražić, Ivan Kukuljević Primary School Sisak
12:25 – 12:45 Anamarija Mladinić, AZOP: Does everyone have to know who you are? Protect your virtual identity!
12:45 – 13:05 Vesna Majdandžić and Valentina Blašković, Collaborators in Learning: Multimedia Comic Exhibition Be an Internet Genius
13:05 – 13:25 Martina Silov, CroAI: Challenges of artificial intelligence
13:25 – 13:45 Jakov Kiš, CARNET CERT: HACKNITE competition for high schools
13:45 – 14:05 Jakov Kiš, CARNET CERT: 10 years of the European Cyber Security Month
14:05 – 14:25 Helenca Pirnat Dragičević, Children's Ombudsman: Children's rights in relation to the digital environment
14:25 – 14:45 Pina Žilić, Elementary School Mate Lovraka: Copyright and good behavior on the Internet
14:45 – 15:05 Davorka Lovrić Vlašić, Elementary School Ivan Goran Kovačić Gora: Anyone can be an Internet genius
15:05 – 15:25 Adele Tante, Elementary School Braća Glumac Lastovo: Critical access to internet content
15:25 – 15:45 Popovača Primary School
15:45 – 16:05 Alenka Miljević, eTwinning ambassador of the Agency for Mobility and Projects of the European Union: eTwinning and safety on the Internet
16:05 – 16:25 Gordana Kulišić, HAKOM: Privacy calculator
16:25 – 16:45 Hrvoje Vešligaj, Microsoft
16:45 – 17:05 Valentina Blašković and Kristina Slišurić: Presentation of the online challenge "The Search for a Better Internet" for students
17:05 – 17:25 Sanja Janeš and Gordana Sokol, Collaborators in Learning: Presentation of the online challenge "The Search for a Better Internet" for teachers and parents
17:25 – 17:45 Lidija Kralj and Katica Konstantinović, Collaborators in learning: The search for a better internet - a board game
17:45 – 18:00 Closing of the conference
