

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the security of personal data processed in medical records at a provider of outpatient medical services (UOOU-01071/20)
Health service provider


The inspection was started on the basis of the inspection plan for 2020. The subject of the inspection was the adoption of technical and organizational measures for the security of medical documentation in electronic and paper form, i.e. the fulfillment of the duties of the administrator of personal data in the sense of Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) and Article 32 of the General Regulation, including in connection with the notified findings of the regional office and the warning issued by the Office. The inspection revealed that the inspected person processes the personal data of patients as part of the management of medical records, which are personal data within the meaning of Art. 4 paragraph 1 of the general regulation. The controlled person has the purpose and means of personal data processing determined by legal regulations, so he is the administrator of patients' personal data in the sense of Article 4, paragraph 7 of the general regulation. In accordance with the definition of Article 4, paragraph 2 of the General Regulation, the controlled person processes the personal data of patients, the processing of personal data is within the meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1 letter c) of the general regulation is legal, as it is necessary for the fulfillment of the legal obligation that applies to the controller. The controlled person processes patient data in the sense of Article 4, Paragraph 15 of the General Regulation, i.e. data on the state of health, or special category of personal data in the sense of Article 9 of the General Regulation. This processing is within the meaning of Article 9 paragraph 2 letter h) of the general statutory regulation. The inspection did not reveal a violation of the duties of the inspected person imposed on him as a personal data manager according to Article 24, paragraph 1 of the General Regulation, as he has precisely defined procedures for the processing of personal data, or special categories of personal data. Checking taking into account the specific nature, scope, context, procedures and purposes of processing, incl. consideration of the risk during processing, stated that the adopted technical and organizational measures ensure a sufficient level of security within the meaning of Article 32 of the General Regulation and the processing is in accordance with the principle expressed in Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) of the general regulation.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Health care > Inspection of the security of personal data processed in medical documentation at the provider of outpatient medical services (UOOU-01071/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



