1/7

 File No.: PS/00429/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The BURGOS OFFICIAL NURSING COLLEGE and the COUNCIL
GENERAL OF NURSING (hereinafter, the claimant party) dated 02/23/
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COUNCIL OF PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS OF
DIPLOMA IN NURSING FROM CASTILLA Y LEÓN with NIF Q9755008A (in
hereafter, the party claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following: that the ***POSITION.1 has sent in the last written months to the 52
Provincial Colleges of Nursing, announcing the successive publication of
sending of data and information about members of the General Nursing Council,
considering that these actions are contrary to what is established in the regulations of
Data Protection.
They provide documents that include personal data (address, DNI
economic remuneration) of members of the Executive Committee of the Board
Nursing General, (...).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 03/22/2021 said claim was transferred to the party
claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency within the period
of a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in data protection regulations. No response has been received to this letter.

THIRD: On 06/23/2021 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 01/10/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.c), typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 02/23/2021 the claimant filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, stating that the respondent has submitted in the
last months written to the 52 Provincial Colleges of Nursing, in which
announces the successive publication of shipments of data and information on members
of the General Nursing Council, considering that these actions are
contrary to the provisions of the data protection regulations.

SECOND: There is a letter dated 12/23/2020 sent by the Council of Schools
of Nursing of Casilla and León to different Colleges of Nursing in which
informs about the reception of documentation related to the claimed and that due to the
seriousness of the presumed crimes that are denounced has been made known
of the Prosecutor's Office and announcing the forthcoming disclosure of new
information and documents that will be made known to the members
while denouncing the continuous attacks and interference of (...).

THIRD: There is a new letter dated 02/12/2021 sent by the Council of
Colleges of Nursing of Castilla y León announcing new information,
documents, including the economic remuneration received (...).

FOURTH: Provided (...), Collegiate Organization of Nursing, Council
General, whose recipient is (...), including their personal data (name and surnames,
address and DNI) and economic remuneration for assignment as advisor
(...), according to agreement of the ordinary meeting of the Executive Committee dated
XX/XX/2019. The document does not contain the signatures of the President or the Treasurer.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, of the GDPR states that:

III

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for which they are processed ("data minimization");
(…)

IV

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in its
section 1.c) when publishing and disseminating among the Colleges of Nursing data not
adequate or pertinent, excessive such as address, DNI and economic data, etc.
of collegiate

Article 5 of the RGPD refers to the general principles for the treatment
of data. Section c) refers to the principle of data minimization,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

indicating that the data must be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary
in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

If we examine the definition we can deduce that only the
personal data to be processed, that is, those that are strictly
necessary for treatment; that can only be picked up when they are going to be
treated and that can only be used for the purpose for which it was collected, but
not for any other purpose.

Also Recital 39 states that:

(39) All processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For the
natural persons it must be made absolutely clear that they are being collected, used,
consulting or otherwise treating personal data that concerns them, as well as
the extent to which such data is or will be processed. The principle of transparency
requires that all information and communication regarding the processing of said data be
easily accessible and easy to understand, and that simple and clear language is used.
This principle refers in particular to the information of the interested parties on the
identity of the data controller and the purposes thereof and the information
added to ensure fair and transparent treatment with respect to people
physical affected and their right to obtain confirmation and communication of the data
personal data that concern them that are subject to treatment. natural persons
must be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards and rights
regarding the processing of personal data as well as the way to assert their
rights in relation to treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the
processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate, and must
be determined at the time of collection. Personal data must be
adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are
treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that their use is limited to a strict minimum.
conservation period. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing
treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the person responsible for the
treatment must establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review. must
take all reasonable steps to ensure that they are rectified or deleted
personal data that is inaccurate. Personal data must be treated in a
way that guarantees adequate security and confidentiality of the data
including to prevent unauthorized access or use of such data and
of the equipment used in the treatment (The underlined corresponds to the AEPD).

v

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed one is typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

SAW

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the treatment operations have infringed the
provided in this Regulation;
(…)

The assumption examined evidences that the one claimed when proceeding to the publication
and dissemination of personal data and information concerning members
collegiate, not adequate or pertinent and excessive has caused the violation of the
data minimization principle.

 
Said conduct constitutes the infringement of the provisions of articles 5.1.c) of the

GDPR.

However, the infraction can be sanctioned with a warning in accordance
with article 58.2.b) of the RGPD and consider that the administrative fine that could
fall in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the RGPD would constitute a
disproportionate burden for the claimed, in addition to not stating the commission of
no previous breach of data protection.

It should be noted that the respondent has not submitted arguments to the agreement of
start ignoring whether it has adopted necessary and pertinent measures to prevent
Incidents and situations such as those that have given rise to this claim are
produce again in the future.

At this point, it is necessary to point out that if you do not correct and reiterate the
conduct revealed in this case and that is the cause of this

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

procedure, as well as not informing this AEPD of the measures adopted with
In relation to the claimed facts, proceedings could be exercised before the
responsible for the treatment in order to apply effective measures
appropriate and adequate to guarantee the treatment and minimization of data
of a personal nature and that incidents such as the one that has occurred will not be incurred again.
place this file.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ON THE COUNCIL OF PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS OF
DIPLOMA IN NURSING FROM CASTILLA Y LEÓN, with NIF Q9755008A, by
an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: TO REQUIRE the COUNCIL OF PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS OF
DIPLOMA IN NURSING FROM CASTILLA Y LEÓN, with NIF Q9755008A, to
that within a month from the notification of this resolution, prove the
adoption of necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the regulations in
matter of protection of personal data in order to avoid that in the future
incidents such as those that gave rise to the claim occur again
correcting the effects of its possible infraction, adapting the treatment of the data
of a personal nature to the requirements contemplated in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COUNCIL OF SCHOOLS
PROFESSIONALS OF DIPLOMA IN NURSING FROM CASTILLA Y LEÓN.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

