 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joint press release

Berlin, January 30, 2019

"Data protection goes to school" starts a new era
Nationwide cooperation between supervisory authorities supports BvD initiative

The initiative "Data protection goes to school" by the professional association of data protection officers
tragten Deutschlands (BvD) e.V. gets punctual for Safer Internet Day (SID) on
Active support on Tuesday. Employees of the data protection
Supervisory authorities of Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria, Lower Saxony and Rhineland-Palatinate
offer teaching units for in February at the schools in their respective federal states
Children and young people on the safe handling of personal data on the Internet.
“The cooperation with the four supervisory authorities helps us, many more young people
on the subject of data protection," said the spokesman for the BvD initiative, Rudi Kra-
more Because surfing the net safely is a basic requirement for young people,
to be able to make their own decisions independently and consciously online.
Stefan Brink, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Baden-
Württemberg, coordinates the project on the part of the supervisory authorities. "Children and Ju-
Some grow up with the digital offers. But this makes them particularly
exposed to their risk,” he said. "That's why it's important to us, especially young people
To sensitize people to the topic of data protection. We're excited to have this in one
cross-state cooperation of the supervisory authorities together with the BvD
implement.”
Brink campaigned for the commitment of the supervisory authorities. “With the participants
We are in a great position with the authorities from Lower Saxony to Bavaria.” Alone in his
House more than ten employees reported for the unusual
chen teaching units. "This shows a high degree of personal commitment from our
experts for data protection,” he emphasized.
The employees of the supervisory authorities access the BvD material during their lessons
from "Privacy goes to school", the content of which was further developed by the
EU initiative klicksafe and financially supported by the DATEV Foundation Future.
For teachers who themselves deal with aspects of data protection in the classroom or who
If you want to prepare and follow up on units, the 3rd newly revised one has been available since November 2018
Edition of the teacher manual "Privacy goes to school". The materials can
can be downloaded free of charge from www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz-geht-zur-schule.
The EU initiative klicksafe organizes the Safer Internet Day on February 5th. In this
year, it has the motto "Together for a better internet" and is dedicated to



                                                                    1



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
punkt and under the hashtag #lauteralshass against hatred on the net. Since 2004 the
Safer Internet Day on the initiative of the European Commission every second year
day of the second week of the second month.
All events within the framework of the SID 2019 can be found on the action day page
at https://www.bvdnet.de/aktionstag-safer-internet-day-2019/
 
 
 
 
 
Note to editors
You are cordially invited to attend one of the events for your reporting
gain weight. If you are interested, please informally register.
 
 
 
 
Contact "Data protection goes to school" of the BvD:
Rudi Kramer, spokesman for the initiative "Data protection goes to school"
Tel: 030/26 36 77 60, e-mail: rudi.kramer@bvdnet.de
 

The professional association of data protection officers in Germany (BvD) e.V. with 1,600 members promotes and represents the interests
ress of the data protection officers in companies and authorities. The association offers its members competent
support in day-to-day professional practice, including extensive further training programs.
 
Contact supervisory authorities
The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Baden-Württemberg, Dr. Stefan Brink,
Koenigstrasse 10a, 70173 Stuttgart, phone: 0711/61 55 41 0, e-mail: poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

The President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, Thomas Kranig, Promenade 27 (Schloss),
91522 Ansbach, phone: 0981/53 1300, email: poststelle@lda.bayern.de

The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugel
mann, Hintere Bleiche 34, 55116 Mainz, Tel.: 0 6131/ 208-2449, email: poststelle@datenschutz.rlp.de

The State Commissioner for Data Protection Lower Saxony, Barbara Thiel, Prinzenstraße 5, 30159 Hanover,
Tel.: 0511/120 45 00, email: pressestelle@lfd.niedersachsen.de



                                                                    2

