








The protection of privacy as a task of the century - digital development needs strong data protection
The HmbBfDI presents its 27th activity report on data protection for the 2018 reporting year.
02/21/2019 • HmbBfDI



After the first seven months under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been in force throughout Europe since May 25, 2018, there is reason for an interim summary. The implementation of the new regulations has kept the public administration, the companies and also the data protection supervisory authorities very busy during this time. The experience gained shows that with regard to the claim to validity and legal practice, the gap between what is and what should be is widening. Unfortunately, the GDPR has brought with it some uncertainty and undesirable developments; this also includes the risk of excessive bureaucracy, not least with regard to cooperation between the supervisory authorities in Europe. Last but not least, it should be noted that in view of the doubled number of submissions, the staffing of the data protection authorities - especially in Hamburg - is unfortunately still insufficient. On the positive side, the GDPR can be attested that it has brought about a significant change in data protection awareness among citizens, authorities and companies.
In addition Prof. Dr. Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: “Data protection and privacy are among the top issues of this century. Apple boss Tim Cook, who publicly emphasized the high standard of the new European data protection law again and again over the past year, sees this too. A look at the debate over the last few months shows that this positive view is not always shared in this country. Instead, numerous legends and pseudo-scandals were associated with the entry into force of the GDPR: Here, among other things, there was talk of the ban on bell signs with names printed on them for landlords, the end of photography in public or a mass deletion of police files due to the new regulations that impede police crime prevention. I observe with concern that instead of information and education, the fiction of an anti-business and perpetrator-friendly prohibition culture is creating a negative mood through modern data protection.
However, data protection is not an end in itself, but a human right. It demands not only the enforcement and monitoring of the laws, but also advice, education and information as a prerequisite for a self-determined basic orientation of the individual in the digital world.
We are currently at the beginning of a development that will fundamentally change people's lives. In the age of artificial intelligence, targeting, biometric surveillance and social scoring, people's most sensitive parts are their data. Digitization and data protection must therefore not be opposites, otherwise we will squander the opportunity for progress with a human face. We all have it in our hands to develop intelligent structures with care and a sense of proportion in the process of digital change, which do not play digitization and data protection off against each other, but understand them for what they are: twin souls that must be firmly anchored in our living environment. "

Download the electronic version of the 27th annual report on data protection 2018



press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "ngcqsbuhrmaztxfo");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "euslrwzcboijhkta");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp






