1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00144/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and with
based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The inspection actions are initiated by the receipt of a letter of
notification of security breach of personal data sent by VOX ESPAÑA
(hereinafter VOX) in which the Spanish Data Protection Agency is notified
(hereinafter AEPD) that, on September 20, 2019, have had
knowledge through the Cybersecurity Institute (hereinafter INCIBE) of the
publication in a digital medium of links where a theft of information is revealed
VOX affiliate data information.

By bringing VOX to the attention of the Civil Guard Telematic Crimes Group
these facts, informs them that, after having carried out investigations, the information
published figure corresponds to a previous incident already notified to the AEPD in
dated 12/13/2018, regarding the publication of a link in which subscribers appear
of VOX news on its website.

In the present case, according to VOX, the second security breach now
notified refers to the attack on a VOX computer team assigned to a leader
of VOX in Barcelona (Sabadell) from which a file with data from
affiliates
the web address
https://keybase.pub/anoncatalonia/VOX/.

  party and published

  in

  to the

In this second notification (dated 09/25/2019), VOX has provided a letter sent
to the affected affiliates where they are informed that one of the leaders of Catalonia
(Sabadell) has suffered an attack on the computer equipment assigned to it, which has
allowed access to a temporary file with data of affiliates of the town of
Sabadell.

SECOND: In view of the aforementioned data security breach notification
data, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigation actions, having knowledge of the following
ends:

BACKGROUND
Date of notification of security breach of personal data: 25 of
september 2019

INVESTIGATED ENTITIES
VOX ESPAÑA, with NIF G86867108 and with address at C/ Bambú 12, 28036 Madrid.

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS
Regarding the first security breach of personal data (dated

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

12/13/2018) informed to VOX by INCIBE and related to an attack on the VOX website,
preliminary proceedings were opened with reference E/10207/2018 motivated by
the notification sent to the AEPD by VOX in which a
cyberattack by the group La Nueve de Anonymous against the VOX website, having as
result in posting a link to news subscribers.

Regarding the second security breach of personal data (notified to the
AEPD on 09/25/2019) now analyzed against a VOX computer assigned to
a leader regarding access to affiliate data in Sabadell:

1. On October 4, 2019, from the Data Inspection you access the
web address https://keybase.pub/anoncatalonia/VOX/ obtaining as a result
"Page not found".

VOX has provided screen printing of the information available on
https://keybase.pub/anoncatalonia/VOX/ at the time of communication of the
INCIBE and the reference to the file “afiliados_sabadelll.xlsx” appears.

2. With dates October 9, 2019 and March 6, 2020, information is required to
VOX and, from the response received on October 24, 2019 and March 17,
2020, the following follows:

Regarding the chronology of events. Incidence minimization measures



On September 21, 2019, INCIBE informed VOX of the access
by cybercriminals to data of VOX affiliates that were published in the
profile of Anonymus Catalonia (@anonktalonia). In that link there were
subscriber data from a previous attack in 2018 (actions by
reference E/10207/2018) and a document in Excel format with data from
affiliated to the party in Sabadell.

We proceeded to study said Excel file, verifying that the data were
extracted from the personal computer of a VOX leader in Barcelona (Sabadell).





On September 22, the leader of VOX in Barcelona filed a complaint
before the Civil Guard, which proceeded to block all links to the website of
VOX. In this regard, VOX has filed a complaint with the Crimes Group
Telematics of the Civil Guard dated September 22, 2019.

On this same date, the security breach was reported.
to those affected.

Regarding the causes that made possible the incidence

 VOX states that the security measures of the
computer assigned to the leader of Barcelona, which has allowed
outside third parties could access a temporary file that contained the
Sabadell affiliate data.

 VOX states that in the documents signed by the leaders of the party
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/10

Regarding confidentiality and the duty of secrecy, the
maintenance of temporary files with affiliate data.

In this regard, Vox has provided “Confidentiality and professional secrecy agreement.
Person authorized for data processing” dated February 2, 2018
signed by the leader whose computer was hacked.

Regarding the security measures implemented prior to the incident

 VOX has provided a status report and system security audit
to verify compliance with the legislation on the protection of
data according to the notification of the aforementioned file and the result of the
audit is “Compliance”. This report is confidential and
is included in the file.

THIRD: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: On October 2, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
what was proposed,

<<That by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency:

 VOX ESPAÑA, with NIF G86867108, is sanctioned for infraction of Article
32.1, b) in relation to article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions
in article 83.4 of the RGPD, considered a serious infringement for the purposes of
prescription in article 73.g) of the LOPDGDD, and for infraction of article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5 of the
RGPD, considered a very serious infringement for the purposes of prescription in the
Article 72.1.i) of the LOPDGDD, with a warning.

 VOX ESPAÑA, with NIF G86867108, is required to implement in the system
of information for which it is responsible, the appropriate measures to avoid
the future the repetition of events similar to the one analyzed in the present
procedure.>>

FIFTH: The investigated entity has not submitted allegations to the Proposal for
Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: VOX acknowledges and is thus accredited that, on 09/20/2019, it has
suffered an external attack against the VOX computer team assigned to a leader
in Barcelona (Sabadell) from which a file with data on members of the
match and subsequently posted to the attacker's web address
https://keybase.pub/anoncatalonia/VOX/.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

SECOND: It is recorded that VOX has communicated to the affected affiliates that one of the
computer equipment for which it is responsible has suffered an external attack that has
allowed the access and publication of the data of the members of the party on the Internet by
outside third parties.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Yo

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the following:

II

"1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

Article 4.12 of the RGPD establishes that it is considered “violation of the security of the
personal data”: any breach of security that results in the destruction, loss
or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.

III

Article 33.1 of the RGPD establishes the following:

“In case of violation of the security of personal data, the person in charge of the
treatment will notify the competent control authority in accordance with the
article 55 without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after
who was aware of it, unless it is unlikely that such violation
constitutes a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical. If the notification to the supervisory authority does not take place within the period of 72
hours, must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for the delay.”

IV

From the actions carried out, it can be deduced that VOX informed this AEPD within
within 72 hours of being aware of the personal data security breach
-according to article 30 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations- giving, consequently,
compliance with the provisions of article 33.1 of the RGPD

Article 32 of the RGPD establishes the following:
.
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

 a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

  b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

 c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
 
 d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.
 
1. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

or unauthorized access to said data.” (The underlining is from the Spanish Agency
Data Protection).

Article 28 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:

v

"1. Those responsible and in charge, taking into account the elements
listed in articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, will determine the
appropriate technical and organizational measures that must be applied in order to guarantee and
prove that the treatment is in accordance with the aforementioned regulation, with this law
organization, its implementing regulations and the applicable sectoral legislation. In particular
They will assess whether it is appropriate to carry out the impact assessment on the protection of
data and the prior consultation referred to in Section 3 of Chapter IV of the aforementioned
regulation.

 
2. For the adoption of the measures referred to in the previous section, the
controllers and processors shall take into account, in particular, the
greater risks that could occur in the following cases:

 
a) When the treatment could generate situations of discrimination,
identity theft or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage,
loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, reversal not
authorized pseudonymization or any other economic, moral or social damage
significant for those affected.

 
b) When the treatment could deprive those affected of their rights and

freedoms or could prevent them from exercising control over their personal data.

 
c) When the treatment is not merely incidental or accessory
of the special categories of data referred to in articles 9 and 10 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 9 and 10 of this organic law or related data
with the commission of administrative infractions.” (…)

Recitals 51 and 75 of the RGPD establish the following:

SAW

(51) Special protection deserves personal data that, by their nature, is
particularly sensitive in relation to fundamental rights and freedoms,
as the context of their treatment could entail significant risks for the
fundamental rights and freedoms.

(75) The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to the processing of data that could cause
physical, material or immaterial damages, in particular (...) in cases where
which the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud; in cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights
and freedoms or are prevented from exercising control over your personal data; In the cases
in which the personal data processed reveal ethnic or racial origin, opinions
policies, (...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

Of the actions carried out, it has been verified that the security measures with which
that the investigated entity had in relation to the data that it submitted to
treatment as responsible, were not adequate at the time of
breach of personal data security occurs, with the consequence of the
public exposure on the internet of the personal data of affiliates of the town of
Sabadell. In other words, those affected affiliated with VOX in that locality have been
deprived of control over their personal data by making public a
particular position or political ideology whose public disclosure is not intended to
what to have been consented by its holder.

This possibility represents a risk that must be weighed when treating
certain data with a special category as indicated in article 9 of the RGPD, and
which increases the demand for the degree of protection in relation to safety and
safeguarding the confidentiality of these data.

This risk must be taken into account by the controller and depending on
establish the measures that would have prevented the loss of control of the
data by the data controller and, therefore, by the owners
of the data that they provided to it.

From the actions carried out, it can be deduced that VOX, at the date of notification of the
security breach, it did not have adequate security measures in its
information systems in accordance with the provisions of article 32 of the RGPD, in
relation to article 28 of the LOPDGDD.

Article 71 of the LOPDGDD establishes, under the heading "Infractions" the following:
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 constitute infractions.
and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

7th

It establishes article 72 of the LOPDGDD, under the rubric "infractions considered
very serious” the following: “1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will expire after three years
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In the present case, the circumstance provided for in article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD indicated above.

It establishes article 73 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
serious” the following: “According to what is established in article 83.4 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

  f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

In the present case, the circumstance established in article 73.f) of the
LOPDGDD indicated above.

This lack of diligence in implementing adequate security measures
in the VOX computers that it assigned to its leaders constitute the element of
guilt that requires the imposition of a sanction.

viii

Likewise, the lack of consideration of the risk that access may entail does not
authorized by third parties to affiliate data related to a political party and its
subsequent public dissemination aggravates the guilt and sanctioning reproach of the
behavior carried out by VOX.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes the following:

IX

  2. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

 (…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

Establishes article 76 of the LOPDGDD under the heading "Sanctions and measures
corrective measures”, states the following:
 

1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the criteria of
graduation established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

 
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

 
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
 
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of

personal data processing.

 
c) The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the

infringement.
 
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

e) The existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the

commission of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

 
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
 
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

 

 
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between them and any interested party.

2. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

From the foregoing, it is clear that VOX has violated article 32.1, b) in relation to the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD,
considered a serious infringement for prescription purposes in article 73.g) of the
LOPDGDD, and article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD, considered a very serious infringement for the purposes of prescription in the article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

In the present case, in view of the diligence carried out by VOX in relation to
to the notification without undue delay of the security breach to this AEPD, as well as
communication to the interested parties and the initiation of actions aimed at minimizing the
negative consequences of the aforementioned breach of security, is considered in accordance with
right not to impose a sanction consisting of an administrative fine and replace it with the
penalty of warning in accordance with the provisions of article 76.3 of the
LOPDGDD in relation to article 58.2 b) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST:

1.

IMPOSE VOX ESPAÑA, for violation of Article 32.1, b) in relation to
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the
RGPD, and for violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

2. REQUEST VOX ESPAÑA, to implement in the information system of the
that it is responsible for the appropriate measures to avoid future repetition
of facts similar to the one analyzed in this procedure and notify
this Agency such measures within a period of three months.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VOX ESPAÑA, with NIF G86867108

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

