1/16

 File No.: EXP202203638

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated March 1, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U. with NIF A82009812
(hereinafter, Orange) for the following reasons:

 The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party states that, on February 24, 2022, it lost its line in
one of his two mobile phones. After contacting your telephone operator (entity
claimed) indicate that a duplicate of your SIM card had been made, request
that the claimant did not do, so he goes to a physical store and they provide him with the data
relating to said duplicate, the location being Barcelona, despite the fact that the claimant
resides in Madrid.

And, provide the following relevant documentation:

Copy of the claimant's ID.

Document related to the request for a duplicate SIM card. Point of Sale of
establishment of ***ESTABLISHMENT.1. There is no signature of the claimant.

Complaint filed with the Civil Guard of the town of Arganda del Rey
(Madrid), on February 25, 2022.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on April 7, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On May 9, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating: <<that on February 24 and 25 of this year, the duplicate was detected
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

of e-SIM usurping the identity of the claimant. The authors of the usurpation of
identity contacted an employee of the Point of Sale of the
establishment of ***ESTABLISHMENT.1 by accessing its login credentials
email accounts and other data to empty your bank accounts and/or Cryptocurrencies,
fact that has been denounced by this company at the end of March. This
extensive complaint of other previous cases, being prosecuted in case in which
preliminary proceedings 114/2022 of the Court of First Instance and Instruction no. 1 of
***LOCATION.1.

Well, once the credentials were obtained, it was when this person requested the
duplicate e-SIM exposed by the claimant. At the moment when the
claimant became aware of this circumstance and contacted this
mercantile, proceeding to block the line, as well as to make the adjustments
relevant.

In this regard, it should be noted that, in no case have they been affected or
the company's information security systems have been compromised, which
They have suffered a breach in their functioning.

Likewise, the access data to the systems of that point of sale have been updated,
so that they cannot be used again by the person who in bad faith carried out
out the irregular duplicate.

That they have implemented an action plan that is foreseen in the short term,
estimating to be able to launch it at the end (...) of 2022, materializing in the following
measures:

-

Implementation of a double identification factor.

- The project called “Whitelist IP”>>

 
THIRD: On May 17, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On September 23, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party requested
extension of the period to make allegations for five business days, and dated 18
of October 2022, presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary,
manifested
their disagreement with the content of the grounds set forth in the Agreement of
Initiation and the legal allegations and arguments are ratified and considered reproduced

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

of his previous letter, and states: "That on February 24 and 25, 2022,
through Siebel 8 (internal Orange mobile card activation system
requested from stores), an order for a duplicate SIM (specifically an e-SIM)
associated with the Point of Sale of ***ESTABLISHMENT.1. the way it is
managed the e-SIM duplicate request, with the credentials of one of the
employees of the Point of Sale of ***ESTABLIECIÓN.1, but without monitoring
of the usual protocol (call to request authorization), causes the
Orange Fraud Department to identify and review the process in question.

The verification procedure for the application and granting of the e-SIM begins, with
in order to identify the existence of possible irregularities. While it was taking place
this verification process, the claimant gets in touch, on the same day, with
the Orange customer service department to report that he has been a victim of
impersonation, which serves to confirm suspicions about the
operation. Next, the Fraud department proceeds to categorize the
contracting as irregular and to cancel the duplicate e-SIM. Consequently,
Orange immediately makes the necessary adjustments. An alert is created indicating
that the client has been a victim of identity theft, and limiting the performance of
orders, to allow their control.

In the subsequent analysis of the factual assumption by the Analysis department
of Orange Risks, it was concluded that there had been a robbery of the
***ESTABLISHMENT.1 Point of Sale Siebel 8 credentials
(belonging to a third entity, franchisee of Orange). in the inquiries
it became known that, after deceiving one of the Point of Sale users,
he revealed his credentials, which were subsequently used to carry out
of the fraudulent procedure.

Consequently, it is concluded that the incidence is due to a specific human error,
by the Point of Sale Agent who, at the insistence and knowledge of the
delinquents from the company's 'slang' - so he thought he was dealing with a
partner- got the Agent to reveal his credentials, failing to comply
all the protocols and instructions communicated to him in connection with the
their confidentiality. These facts have been denounced by Orange,
stating the complaint with number of preliminary proceedings 114/2022 of the First Court
Instance and Instruction No. 1 of ***LOCATION.1. Likewise, in collaboration with the
authorities, Orange has proceeded to track the IMEI of the device from the
that the fraudulent eSIM duplicate was made, identifying it and including it
in an internal BlackList, so that it cannot be used again.

Likewise, the Claimant was informed from Orange of all the proceedings and
inquiries made. The Claimant continues to be an active customer of this
part.

On April 7, 2022, Orange receives the transfer of the claim filed by the
Claimant before the AEPD on the occasion of this factual assumption, responding
and attending to the issues that he presented through allegations that were
filed on May 9, 2022.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

In attention to the present assumption of fact that concerns us, I would like this part to review
that, although until now the identity of Orange customers was impersonated, now
the identity of Orange employees and agents is impersonated.

Mobile applications are installed on the specific mobile device, so for
be able to access them, identity theft should have or
with additional information from the Claimant, or with their mobile terminal. In this
sense, the Agency is not capable of justifying that it actually had
knowledge of this information by criminals during the process of
duplicate. Therefore, beyond the theoretical conceptualization of the data included
on a SIM card as personal data, it has not been proven that your
confidentiality has been compromised.

In the present case, the existence of a strict control, prior and
post-hiring, the establishment of prior and subsequent measures, as well as
such as the existence of specific measures aimed at avoiding the commission of these
practices (already indicated by this part in the allegations to the requirement of
information from the AEPD). That is why it is not possible to assess the guilt of
Orange in the present supposition of fact, not being legally valid the
assessment made by the Agency for commission of infringement by this company.

"In this case, once the reasons given by ORANGE ESPAGNE have been analysed,
S.A.U., which are in the file, it is considered that the initiation of a
disciplinary procedure after the claim has been dealt with, proceeding
agree to file the examined claim”. That is why it is not possible in
the present the imputation of an infraction to this part, when in supposed
manifestly equivalent, an archive criterion has been adopted. of the
Otherwise, we would find ourselves in a situation of defenselessness and legal uncertainty
for Orange.

For all of the above, Orange: requests the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
that this document is considered as presented, if it is admitted, considers as formulated the
previous allegations and, after the appropriate procedures, issue a resolution through
which indicates the file of Procedure No.: PS/03638/2022.

Alternatively, in the event that the AEPD decides against the
legal basis that Orange maintains, the AEPD is requested to take into account
account the extenuating circumstances based on the above allegations and,
consequently, culminate the procedure by means of a warning and, ultimately,
instance, if it considers that the imposition of a sanction is appropriate, moderate or modulate its
proposal contained in the Commencement Agreement notified to Orange”

SIXTH: On October 19, 2022, the procedure instructor agreed
perform the following tests:
  
"1. The claim filed by the
claimant and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the
phase of admission to processing of the claim. 2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced at
probative effects, the allegations to the agreement to start the procedure

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

referenced sanctioner, presented by Orange, and the documentation that they
accompanies”.

SEVENTH: On November 10, 2022, Orange was notified of the Proposal for
Resolution, by which it is proposed to penalize Orange for alleged infringement of the
Article 6.1) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

EIGHTH: Once the proposed resolution was notified, the defendant requested an extension
of the term to formulate allegations for five business days, and dated December 2
of 2022, he presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary, he stated his
disagreement with the content of the grounds set forth in the Proposal for
Resolution and the allegations and arguments are ratified and reproduced
of his previous writing, and states:

"In this disciplinary proceeding, the sanction is imposed because
ORANGE provided a duplicate SIM card of the complaining party to a third party,
without your consent and without verifying the identity of said third party, and for this reason
imputes article 6.1 of the GDPR”. In this sense, the AEPD ignores the fact that
ORANGE has developed and implemented a protocol for requesting a duplicate of the
SIM card, and communicated to the agents in charge of processing these requests.
Not the slightest consideration is included about its content or the adequacy of the
itself to assess the display of diligence that ORANGE has undertaken.

The fact that the protocol has not been followed constitutes a breach
contractual by the agent of the collaborating entity, sanctioned by ORANGE
(who does not have the legal capacity to act directly against the agent, so
directed against your employer). In this sense, it is inappropriate
purported personification of ORANGE, as if the entity materially executed
some action.

For all of the above, Orange: REQUESTS the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
that this document is considered as presented, if it is admitted, considers as formulated the
previous allegations and, after the appropriate procedures, issue a resolution through
which indicates the file of Procedure No.: PS/03638/2022. Secondarily, in
the case that the AEPD resolves against the legal grounds that sustain
Orange, the AEPD is requested to take into account the extenuating circumstances
based on the previous allegations and, consequently, conclude the
procedure by means of a warning and, ultimately, if you consider that
the imposition of a sanction proceeds, moderates or modulates its proposal included in the
Sanction proposal notified to Orange, based on the arguments expressed
in the body of this brief of allegations”.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant states that, on February 24, 2022, he ran out of
line on one of his two mobile phones. After contacting Orange, they tell him that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

a duplicate of his SIM card had been made, a request that the claimant did not make,
so you go to a physical store and they provide you with the data related to said duplicate,
the locality being Barcelona, despite the fact that the claimant resides in Madrid.

SECOND: The claimant has provided a copy of the complaint filed
before the Civil Guard of the town of Arganda del Rey (Madrid) for these facts and
document relating to the request for a duplicate SIM card. Point of Sale of
establishment of *** ESTABLISHMENT.1, not containing the signature of the claimant.

THIRD: Orange states that on February 24 and 25, 2022 the
through Siebel 8 (internal Orange mobile card activation system
requested from stores), an order for a duplicate SIM (specifically an e-SIM)
associated with the Point of Sale of ***ESTABLISHMENT.1. The fraud department
proceeds to categorize the contract as irregular and to cancel the duplicate e-SIM.

FOURTH: Orange acknowledged in the response brief dated October 18,
2022 to this Agency that the incident is due to a specific human error, by
of the Orange Point of Sale Agent who, at the insistence and knowledge of
the criminals of the company's 'slang' - so he believed he was dealing with
a colleague - got the Agent to reveal his credentials, in breach of
all the protocols and instructions communicated to him in connection with the
their confidentiality.

FIFTH: These facts have been denounced by Orange, stating the complaint with
No. of preliminary proceedings 114/2022 of the Court of First Instance and Instruction No. 1
of ***LOCATION.1. Likewise, in collaboration with the authorities, from Orange
the IMEI of the device from which the duplicate was made has been traced
of fraudulent eSIM, identifying it and including it in an internal BlackList,
so that it cannot be used again.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

II

Classification and classification of the offense

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:

“1) «personal data»: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of authorization of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction”.
7) "responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person,
public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of processing; if the law of the Union or of the Member States
determines the purposes and means of processing, the controller or the
Specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union law
or of the Member States”
ORANGE, is responsible for the data processing referred to in the
exposed background, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the
GDPR is the one that determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the
purposes indicated in its Privacy Policy.
Likewise, the issuance of a duplicate SIM card supposes the treatment of the data
personal data of its owner since any identifiable natural person will be considered
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
using an identifier (article 4.1) of the GDPR).
In this sense, it should be clarified that the card is inserted inside the mobile terminal.
SIM. It is a smart card, made of plastic and small dimensions, which contains a
chip in which the service key of the subscriber or subscriber used to
identify yourself to the network, that is, the customer's mobile phone number
MSISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network -Mobile Station Network
Digital de Servicios Integrados-), as well as the personal identification number of the
IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) subscriber
Mobile subscriber-) but can also provide other types of data such as information
tion on the telephone list or the calls and messages list.
The SIM card can be inserted in more than one mobile terminal, as long as it is
be released or from the same company.
In Spain, since 2007, through the Sole Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to communications
electronic networks and public communications networks, it is required that the holders of
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

all SIM cards, whether prepaid or contract, are duly
identified and registered. This is important since the identification of the subscriber
It will be essential to register the SIM card, which will mean that when
obtain a duplicate of this the person who requests it has to identify himself
equally and that their identity coincides with that of the owner.
In short, both the data processed to issue a duplicate SIM card and the
SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module) that uniquely identifies
to the subscriber in the network, are personal data, and their treatment must be
subject to data protection regulations.

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of article 6
of the RGPD, "Legacy of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the assumptions in which
that the processing of data by third parties is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which considers as such:
"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

The LOPDGDD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years,
<<b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679>>

II

Breached Obligation

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

From the Proven Facts, it can be deduced that ORANGE has provided a duplicate card
SIM to a third party other than the legitimate holder of the mobile line, after overcoming by
third person of the existing security policy, which shows a
breach of duty to protect customer information.

Denying the concurrence of a negligent act on the part of ORANGE would amount to
to recognize that his conduct -by action or omission- has been diligent. Obviously not
We share this perspective of the facts, since the
lack of due diligence. It is very illustrative, the SAN of October 17, 2007
(rec. 63/2006), assuming that these are entities whose activity involves
in continuous treatment of customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court comes
understanding that imprudence exists whenever a legal duty of
care, that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, professionalism must be especially considered
or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the
The appellant's activity is constant and abundant handling of personal data.
staff
 must insist on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
 
 
legal provisions in this regard.

 

It is proven in the file that security has not been guaranteed
appropriate in the processing of personal data, taking into account the result that
identity theft has occurred. That is, a third party has managed to access
to the personal data of the owner of the line without the security measures that
ORANGE affirms that they exist, they have been able to prevent it. So, we are before the
concurrence of a typical conduct, unlawful and guilty.

In short, the rigor of the operator when monitoring who owns the
SIM card or person authorized by it who requests the duplicate, should
meet strict requirements. It is not that the information to which
refers is not contained in the SIM card, but that, if in the process of issuing
of a duplicate SIM card does not properly verify the identity of the
applicant, the operator would be facilitating identity theft.

ORANGE cites in its defense a series of resolutions issued by the AEPD,
stating that the present case is analogous to that included in the
procedures EXP202104010; EXP202104011 and EXP202105686 to ORANGE,
also for cases of "Sim Swapping" fraud, which were filed

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

by the AEPD.

In this regard, it should be noted that said procedures were intended to
analyze the procedures followed to manage SIM change requests
by ORANGE, identifying the vulnerabilities that may exist in the
operating procedures implemented, to detect the causes for which
may be producing these cases, as well as finding points of non-compliance,
improvement or adjustment, to determine responsibilities, reduce risks and raise the
security in the processing of the personal data of the affected persons. The
facts claimed, in the aforementioned procedures, refer to the same procedure
data protection operation that has been investigated and sanctioned by the AEPD
by resolution dated 11/10/2021 within the framework of the disciplinary procedure
PS/00022/2021, processed against the claimed party and charged with the violation of the
article 5.1f).

In this disciplinary proceeding, the sanction is imposed because
ORANGE provided a duplicate SIM card of the complaining party to a third party, without
your consent and without verifying the identity of said third party, and for this reason
imputes article 6.1 of the GDPR.

Regarding ORANGE's responsibility, it should be noted that, in general
ORANGE processes the data of its customers under the provisions of article 6.1 b)
of the GDPR, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a contract
in which the interested party is a party or for the application at his request of measures
pre-contractual In other cases, it bases the legality of the treatment on the bases
provided for in article 6.1.a), c), e) and f) of the GDPR.

The Constitutional Court indicated in its Judgment 94/1998, of May 4, that we
We are faced with a fundamental right to data protection by which
guarantees the person control over their data, any personal data, and
about their use and destination, to avoid illegal traffic of the same or harmful to the
dignity and rights of those affected; In this way, the right to protection of
data is configured as a faculty of the citizen to oppose that
certain personal data is used for purposes other than those that justified
its obtaining.

For its part, in Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, it considers it as a
autonomous and independent right that consists of a power of disposition and
control over personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those
data to provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this
third party to collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that data
personal and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use.

As for ORANGE's conduct, it is considered to respond to the title of guilt.
As a repository of personal data on a large scale, therefore, accustomed
or dedicated specifically to the management of the personal data of the
customers, you must be especially diligent and careful in your treatment. That is to say,
From the point of view of guilt, we are facing a winnable error, since, with the
application of appropriate technical and organizational measures, these impersonations
of identity could have been avoided.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

 
It is recital 74 of the GDPR that says: "The
responsibility of the data controller for any data processing
personal data made by himself or on his own. In particular, the controller must
be obliged to apply timely and effective measures and must be able to demonstrate the
compliance of processing activities with this Regulation, including the
effectiveness of the measures. Such measures should take into account the nature,
scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as the risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons. Likewise, recital 79 says: The protection
of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties, as well as the responsibility of the
controllers and processors, also with regard to the
supervision by the control authorities and the measures adopted by
they require a clear attribution of responsibilities under this
Regulations, including cases in which a controller determines the purposes and
means of processing jointly with other controllers, or in which the
treatment is carried out on behalf of a person in charge”.

The computer system and the technologies involved must be adequate for
prevent spoofing and be correctly configured.

This Agency does not share ORANGE's statements regarding the
circumstances that have been proven.

It is true that there are protocols to prevent identity theft in these
processes; that those involved in the processing have been transferred; that have
introduced improvements after discovering certain vulnerabilities; that there are penalties
for its breach. However, we do not share the fact that these protocols
or internal procedures may be considered adequate insofar as they are
susceptible to improvement. Mechanisms for identifying and
authentication with technical and organizational measures that are especially
appropriate to avoid impersonation.

Regarding due diligence, it is recognized that ORANGE has acted
diligently in minimizing the impact on those potentially affected by implementing
new security measures to avoid the repetition of similar incidents in a
future.

Certainly, the principle of responsibility provided for in article 28 of the LRJSP,
provides that: "They may only be penalized for acts constituting an infringement
administrative authority for natural and legal persons, as well as when a Law
recognize capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

However, the mode of attribution of liability to legal persons is not
corresponds to the willful or reckless forms of guilt that are imputable
to human behavior. So, in the case of offenses committed by
legal persons, even if the element of guilt must be present, it will be
necessarily applies differently from what is done with respect to persons
physical.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the
authorship of the infraction to the legal person arises from the very nature of fiction
law to which these subjects respond. The volitional element is lacking in them in the sense
strict, but not the ability to break the rules to which they are subject.

Infringement capacity and, therefore, direct reproach that derives from the good
protected by the rule being infringed and the need for such protection
is really effective and because of the risk that, consequently, the person must assume
that is subject to compliance with said standard" (in this sense STS of 24
November 2011, Rec 258/2009).

To the foregoing must be added, following the judgment of January 23, 1998,
partially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of 23
of October 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the guilt of the conduct must
also be the object of proof, must be considered in order to assume the
corresponding charge, which ordinarily the volitional and cognitive elements
necessary to appreciate it are part of the typical behavior tested, and that its
exclusion requires that the absence of such elements be proven, or in its aspect
regulations, that the diligence that was required by the person claiming their
nonexistence; In short, it is not enough to exculpate a behavior
the invocation of the absence of guilt is typically unlawful".

Accordingly, the plea is dismissed. ultimate responsibility
on the treatment continues to be attributed to the person in charge, who is the one who determines the
existence of the treatment and its purpose. Let us remember that, in general, the
operators process the data of their customers under the provisions of article 6.1
b) of the GDPR, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a
contract in which the interested party is a party (…). In this sense, ORANGE has
a network of sales representatives, points of sale and distributors approved through a
distribution contract to offer ORANGE services. Among these services
offered from their points of sale, is making duplicate SIM cards
corresponding to a mobile telephone line.

In the present case, it is proven that Orange provided a duplicate of the card
SIM of the claiming party to a third party, without their consent and without verifying the
identity of said third party, which has accessed information contained in the phone
mobile, such as bank details, passwords, email address and others
personal data associated with the terminal. Thus, the defendant did not verify the
personality of the person who requested the duplicate SIM card, did not take precautions
necessary for these events not to occur.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the
diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
a duplicate SIM card.

Orange recognized in its allegations dated October 18 and December 12,
2022 to this Agency that the incident is due to a specific human error, by
of the Orange Point of Sale Agent who, at the insistence and knowledge of
the criminals of the company's 'slang' - so he believed he was dealing with
a colleague - got the Agent to reveal his credentials, in breach of
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

all the protocols and instructions communicated to him in connection with the
their confidentiality.

Based on the available evidence, it is estimated that the conduct
of the claimed party violates article 6.1 of the GDPR and may be constitutive of the
infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation 2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

IV.

Sanction

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

  Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled
"Sanctions and corrective measures":

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed on the entity claimed as responsible for a classified offense
in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating circumstances:

-

The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD).
The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in which,
with respect to entities whose activity entails the continuous processing of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is
that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now
examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and abundant
handling of personal data must insist on rigor and exquisite
Be careful to comply with the legal provisions in this regard.”

As mitigations:

The claimed party proceeded to block the line as soon as it became aware of the
facts (art. 83.2 c).

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of 70,000
€ for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in article 83.5.a) of the
cited GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U., with NIF A82009812, for a
violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine
of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U..

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000, open in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A..
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

