Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman to examine the exercise of the right to erasure as part of an EU-wide measure


   


Publication date 
5.3.2025
 13.52
| Published in English on 13.3.2025 at 11.20


Type:Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 This year, the European data protection authorities will examine how organisations are exercising the right of individuals to have their personal data erased. Thirty-two data protection supervisory authorities from across Europe are participating in the joint inquiry. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman will investigate the situation in Finland through an anonymous survey of data controllers. On 5 March, the European Data Protection Board launched joint action for 2025. It looks at how organisations comply in practice with data protection legislation when an individual wants his or her personal data erased. The right to erasure, or the so-called right to be forgotten, is one of the data protection rights under the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In certain circumstances, a person has the right to ask the controller to erase data concerning him or her. The right to erasure is widely used and data protection authorities regularly receive contacts related to this. Situation to be examined in Finland by a survey of organisations The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman will carry out the survey through a questionnaire sent to organisations in different sectors and industries. The questionnaire will be sent out during the spring. The anonymous survey will collect valuable information on the exercising of the right to erasure and the challenges faced by operators in general. The responses will help to identify, among other things, the need for guidance. Ultimately, the European Data Protection Board will compile and analyse the results of the surveys carried out in different countries. The findings will allow further action to be taken both at national and EU level. Measure to strengthen supervisory cooperation Each year, the European Data Protection Board selects a subject for joint action. The current inquiry is the fourth Europe-wide measure coordinated by the board.  In 2024, how the right of access to personal data was being exercised in organisations was examined. A report on the results of the survey was published in January 2025. In previous years, the data protection authorities jointly examined the use of cloud services in the public sector and the appointment and role of data protection ombudsmen in EU countries. Joint coordinated action will realise the board's objective of harmonising supervision and strengthening cooperation between European data protection authorities. Further information:  Press release of the European Data Protection Board on the Board's website (in English): CEF 2025: Launch of coordinated enforcement on the right to erasure (5.3.2025) Information for individuals on using the right of erasure: If you would like to have your data erased Information for organisations on exercising the right to erasure: Right to erasure 












European Economic Area
European Union countries
settlement of matters
supervision


