Data Protection Impact Assessment
with Bavarian authorities

Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
the "Bavarian Blacklist" for data protection impact assessment
extensive accompanying material.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, March 6th, 2019

With the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation, the
authority of the Bavarian authorities relevant data protection law 2018
fundamentally reformed. Known and proven regulations of the old
Since then, on the right are still unfamiliar provisions that are in the
Administrative practice first have to "arrive" - also because labor
processes are to be adapted and new experiences are to be gained.

The data protection impact assessment did not exist in the old law. Nice
before the 2018 data protection reform, authorities responsible for personal
process data, but obliged to provide a sufficient level of data
to ensure safety. If data processing is expected to have a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
the person responsible for them under the new law now has a data protection
carry out an impact assessment. In doing so, he develops a structured
description of the risks and assigns them suitable technical and organizational
satirical measures against.

Bavarian authorities are responsible for countless data processing
lich. This may also include such processing that one
require a data protection impact assessment. To identify this
To make "high-risk processing" easier, I published the "Bayerische
Blacklist” published, which lists the most important cases. I am for that
otherwise obligated under the General Data Protection Regulation.

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from March 6th, 2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
I also have mine to support the Bavarian authorities
Orientation guide published in mid-May 2018 "Data protection
 
estimated" revised and a new, detailed working paper
pier added to the methodology. A case study shows here an example of how a
Effectively and efficiently draw up data protection impact assessments with IT
can be tested. At the same time, it illustrates the benefits of this instrument
within the framework of orderly risk management.

The "Bavarian Blacklist", the updated guide with the
associated new working paper and the case study
used software – a German version of the tried-and-tested
PIA tools issued by the German data protection supervisory authority – ste-
hen since today on my homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
available for free download in the “Data Protection Reform 2018” section.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "The data protection impact assessment is an important
effective instrument to protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons
to protect data processing with a likely high risk. Think
Advisory practice has shown, however, that many Bavarian public
there are still great uncertainties as to when and how
a data protection impact assessment must be carried out precisely. With the
'Bavarian Blacklist' and the extensive accompanying material I would like
offer help and orientation for official practice.”

 

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

