1/17

 File No.: EXP202105473

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 11/04/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against Naturgy Iberia, S.A. (hereinafter Naturgy) for the following reasons:

The complaining party shows that, on 11/02/2021, it received a
phone call from a Naturgy marketing company offering a
discount on electricity and gas supplies, which had your personal data
relating to name, surname, date of birth, ID, address and bank account,
in addition to the amounts that he had been paying for those supplies. Indicates that
during that call he did not confirm any contract change or subrogation in the
same in favor of Naturgy.

He adds that he was informed about the sending of two SMS with information about the
discounts to apply and who subsequently received an email from the address
"no-reply@Naturgy.com" with the indication "your contract is already available", to which
attaches a contract for dual supply and services that you did not authorize and whose conditions
unknown. According to the claimant, on the same day as the claim, it processed the
withdrawal of said contract and formulated before Naturgy the pertinent claim for
misuse of your personal data and commercial fraud.

The following documentation is provided with the claim:

. Copy of a "Dual supply and services contract" formalized in the name of the
claiming party, which includes the particular and general conditions, as well as the
direct debit order. It is also accompanied by a certification that
accredits the digital signature of the contract issued by a third entity duly
registered in the Registry of Network Operators (Aviva Voice Systems And Services,
S.L., hereinafter Aviva Voice), which acts in its capacity as a Third Party of
Confidence, which contains the details of the following communications by messages
SMS, email and WEB:

"1. Sending: SMS message on 2021-11-02 19:16 CET to the mobile number ***TELEPHONE.1 with
sender Naturgy with the following text:
"To finalize your contract, access ***URL.1".

2. The WEB page to which the link ***URL.1 points is hosted on our servers and is
has automatically generated custom… According to our records, at 2021-
11-02 19:16 CET this page was accessed. According to our records, the "I Agree" button

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

content on the WEB page to which said link points was clicked at 2021-11-02 19:16
CET from IP address ***NUMBER.1.
3. Sending: SMS message on 2021-11-02 19:16 CET to the mobile number ***TELEPHONE.1 with
sender Naturgy with the following text:
“…(name of the complaining party) Thank you for trusting Naturgy! Review your contract. Access
to: ***URL.1”.
 
. Call history, in which the call received by the party is marked
claimant.

. Email, dated 11/02/2021, to which the complaining party refers in the
text of your complaint. Includes a link to the "Customer Area".

. Email, dated 11/04/2021, sent from the address
"(...)@Naturgy.com", through which receipt of the claim made is acknowledged
by the complaining party before Naturgy.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
LOPDGDD), the claim was forwarded to the entities Naturgy and
Aviva Voice, so that they proceed with their analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 12/18/2021 by the entity
Aviva Voice and on 12/20/2021 by Naturgy, as stated in the acknowledgments of receipt that
work in the file.

On 12/28/2021, this Agency received a response letter from Aviva Voice,
by means of which it informs that it provides Naturgy with SMS and email services
certified emails, acting as a trusted service provider for
electronic signature, without any of its services consisting of the issuance or reception
of calls to offer products and services marketed by said entity or
none other.

On the other hand, on 01/20/2022, this Agency received a written response
of Naturgy reporting the following:

. Contracting for the supply of gas, electricity and maintenance refers to
a supply point owned by the claiming party and the
11/02/2021 by a commercial agent of the entity Gesterpool, S.L.U. (hereafter,
GESTERPOOL), with NIF B54691977, which provides advisory services and
commercial and technical support for customer acquisition, including conducting
telephone sales actions, and intervenes as the person in charge of the treatment. Bliss
contracting was certified by the Aviva Voice entity, as stated in the
documentation provided by the claimant, and confirmed by phone call
telephone "verification" carried out by GESTERPOOL, which is recorded.

. Naturgy responded to the withdrawal exercised by the claimant on 11/04/2021, in
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

so that the contract was not activated nor did it generate any charge. The effective drop of
The contracted maintenance services were carried out on 11/09/2021.

. Naturgy points out that, however, the review of the case carried out on the occasion of the
transfer of the claim has made it possible to appreciate very serious breaches of the
contractual obligations assumed by GESTERPOOL.

Thus, despite the fact that Naturgy's systems state that the contract was
carried out by an authorized GESTERPOOL commercial agent, this entity has
recognized that the contracting was carried out by an entity subcontracted by it,
called Callsisten Energy, S.L., without the consent or knowledge of Naturgy,
despite the fact that the Service Contract and the Treatment Commission Contract
entered into between Naturgy and GESTERPOOL contain clauses that prohibit
expressly to GESTERPOOL the subcontracting of works without the approval
prior and in writing from Naturgy.

GESTERPOOL has not recorded the initial telephone call that led to the sending of the
SMS in which the consent for contracting is obtained, so that Naturgy does not
You can access the recording to assess the quality of the service offered and the
compliance by GESTERPOOL with the Code of Good Commercial Practices
and the argument for remote sales, which Naturgy imposes on all its companies
collaborators.

Naturgy adds that it asked GESTERPOOL for more information on the actions of
Callsisten Energy, S.L. and that GESTERPOOL reported that said subcontractor refused to
collaborate, thus hindering Naturgy in its audit tasks and
contractually provided research.

For these reasons, Naturgy has revoked all access from GESTERPOOL to the
contracting tool and has terminated the contractual relationship with it, therefore
that it will not continue to provide services to Naturgy as it has not followed its instructions and
breached the obligations imposed to guarantee quality in contracting.

THIRD: On 02/04/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

1. The Naturgy entity, in response to the request made to it by the
AEPD Inspection Services, provided (i) a copy of the signed Service Contract
on 01/01/2021 with the entity GESTERPOOL, by virtue of which this entity provided
the first advisory services and commercial and technical support for attracting
customers, which includes carrying out telephone sales actions; (ii) Addendum to
said contract signed by both entities on 07/01/2021, which modifies

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

some opening clauses; (iii) and Treatment Assignment Contract, signed
also dated 07/01/2021, which according to Naturgy complements the
Services.

a) Of what is stipulated in the Service Contract provided, it is worth highlighting the clauses
following:

"(...)

(…).

(…):

(…)

(…)

(…)
 
(…).

(…) ”.

b) In the aforementioned Addendum to the Service Contract, it is agreed to modify the
Seventh (sections 4 and 5) and Fifteenth stipulations of this Contract, which
are worded as follows:

“. (…)

(…)

. (…)

(…).

(…).

. (…)

(…).

(…)”.

c) As stipulated in the Processing Contract, which includes the
elements described in article 28 of the GDPR and complements the Contract of
Services, the following should be highlighted:

"1. (...)”.

“(…)”.

“(…):

(…):
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

(…)”.

2. At the request of the Inspection Services, the entity Telefónica Móviles
España, S.A.U., operator of the line number of the complaining party
***TELEPHONE.1, confirmed the reception on this mobile line of a call made
by line ***TELEPHONE.2 on 11/02/2021.

On the other hand, the company Orange Espagne, S.A.U., operator of the calling line
***TELEPHONE.2, reported that this line is assigned to the reseller of said company
Neotel 2000, S.L., which, in turn, reported that the ownership of the aforementioned line
The caller corresponds to the entity Callsisten Energy, S.L., with NIF B01866565.
It also provided details of making a call on 11/02/2021 to the number
of the complaining party with a duration of 1614 seconds.

3. On 08/25/2022, additional information provided by Naturgy was received in the
which indicates the following:

. The data of the complaining party used in the telephone sales action does not
did not come from any database provided by Naturgy.

. The entity GESTERPOOL informed Naturgy that the telephone sales action was
carried out by the entity Callsisten Energy, S.L., subcontracted by GESTERPOOL, and
that the personal data of the complaining party used for that action came from
from a database of Callsisten Energy, S.L. itself, acquired from an entity
third.

In this regard, Naturgy warns that GESTERPOOL carried out this subcontracting without
your consent or knowledge, breaching contractual obligations
contracted.

4. On 08/19/2022, the entity GESTERPOOL was sent a request for
information, which is delivered on the 25th of the same month. In the absence of a response, it
sent a new requirement on 09/30/2022, which was also delivered to
GESTERPOOL on 10/10/2022, without receiving a response from this Agency
some.

5. On 10/10/2022, an information request was sent to the entity
Callsisten Energy, S.L., which expired on 10/21/2022. The request was reiterated
on 11/10/2022 by postal mail, which was returned by the Postal Service with the
indication “Unknown”. This last request was sent to the address of
Callsisten Energy, S.L. that appears in the Mercantile Registry, which coincides with the
verified before the AEAT.

FIFTH: On 01/11/2023, by the General Sub-Directorate of Data Inspection
the information available on GESTERPOOL is accessed in “Axesor”. (…).

SIXTH: On 01/23/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Datos agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against the entity GESTERPOOL, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged infringement
of articles 28 and 58.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4.a) and 83.5.e) of the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

same Regulation, and qualified for prescription purposes as serious and very serious in
articles 73.l) and 72.1ñ) and o) of the LOPDGDD, respectively.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanction that could correspond,
attention to the existing evidence at the time of opening and without prejudice to the
resulting from the instruction, would amount to a total of 15,000 euros (fifteen thousand euros):

. For the alleged infringement of article 28 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4.a)
of the same Regulation, a penalty amounting to 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).
. For the alleged violation of article 58.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.e)
of the same Regulation, a penalty amounting to 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

Likewise, it was warned that the imputed infractions, if confirmed, may
lead to the imposition of measures in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d)
of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: The notification to the claimed party of the opening agreement outlined in the
previous antecedent, in which a term was granted to formulate allegations and
propose proof, was delivered to GESTERPOOL through the Notification Service
Electronics on 02/01/2023.

After the period granted for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified
that no claim has been received from the claimed party.

EIGHTH: On 02/24/2023, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense of
that the Director of the AEPD sanction the claimed party for an infraction
of article 28 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4.a) of the same Regulation, and
classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in article 73.l) of the LOPDGDD,
with a fine of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros); and for a violation of article 58.1 of the
GDPR, typified in art. 83. 5.e) of the aforementioned GDPR, and classified as very serious in the
article 72.1.ñ) and o) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

NINTH: Notification of the proposed resolution outlined in the Background
Eighth was delivered to the claimed party on 03/06/2023, granting
deadline for making claims.

Said term elapsed without this Agency having received any letter from the
claimed part.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The Naturgy entity signed a contract with the GESTERPOOL entity,
dated 01/01/2021, by virtue of which the latter entity was obliged to provide
advisory services and commercial and technical support for customer acquisition,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

including carrying out telephone sales actions, intervening in these
actions under the condition of person in charge of the treatment.

Both entities signed an Addendum, dated 07/01/2021, by which
modify some clauses of the Contract; and a Processing Contract,
also dated 07/01/2021.

All these documents stipulate that GESTERPOOL may not subcontract the
rights and obligations derived from the contract without the express, prior and
written by Naturgy. In the Processing Contract it is indicated that
GESTERPOOL must notify Naturgy, at least one month in advance,
the data of the third party with whom you intend to subcontract and the description of the service in
concrete that will be subcontracted, so that you can oppose.

SECOND: The claimant has stated that, on 11/02/2021, it received
a phone call on behalf of Naturgy offering discounts on
electricity and gas supplies.

THIRD: On 11/02/2021, the claimant digitally signed a
“Dual supply and services contract” executed in your name, which includes the order
debit direct debit. The digital signature of this document is certified by
a third party duly registered in the Register of Network Operators, which
acts in its capacity as a Trusted Third Party.

FOURTH: The complaining party processed with Naturgy the withdrawal of the contract,
which was attended by said entity on 11/04/2021 without having activated the
services.

FIFTH: Naturgy has stated that the contracting of its services by the
claimant was carried out with the intervention of Callsisten Energy, S.L., entity
subcontracted by GESTERPOOL without the consent or knowledge of Naturgy.

SIXTH: Naturgy has declared before this Agency that it has revoked all access
of GESTERPOOL to the recruitment tool and has terminated the relationship
contractual with it, having not followed its instructions and breached the
Obligations imposed to guarantee quality in contracting.

SEVENTH: The entity Telefónica Móviles España, S.A.U., operator of the
line of the complaining party ***PHONE.1, confirmed receipt on this line
mobile of a call made from the line ***TELEPHONE.2 on 11/02/2021.

EIGHTH: The entity Orange Espagne, S.A.U., operator of the line
***TELEPHONE.2, informed that the ownership of this line corresponds to the entity
Callsisten Energy, S.L., with NIF B01866565. He also provided details of the
making a call from this line, on 11/02/2021, to the mobile line number
of the complaining party, with a duration of 1614 seconds.

NINTH: On 08/19/2022, the AEPD Inspection Services sent to
the entity GESTERPOOL a request for information, which has been delivered on
25 of the same month. Given the lack of response, a new requirement was sent in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

dated 09/30/2022, which was also delivered to GESTERPOOL on 10/10/2022, without
this entity has provided any response.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures”.

Breached obligation. Treatment manager.

II

Article 28 of the GDPR, "Processor", establishes:

"1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the treatment,
This will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees to apply measures
appropriate technical and organizational, so that the treatment is in accordance with the
requirements of this Regulation and guarantee the protection of the rights of the interested party.

2. The person in charge of the treatment will not resort to another person in charge without the prior authorization by
written, specific or general, of the person in charge. In the latter case, the person in charge will inform the
responsible for any changes foreseen in the incorporation or substitution of other
managers, thus giving the controller the opportunity to oppose such changes.

3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the person in charge with respect to the
responsible and establishes the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations and rights of the
responsible. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions from the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a third country or
an international organization, unless it is obliged to do so under Union law
or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in such a case, the person in charge will inform the
responsible for that legal requirement prior to treatment, unless such Law prohibits it by
important reasons of public interest;
b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respect confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another person in charge of the
treatment;
e) will assist the controller, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through measures
appropriate technical and organizational, whenever possible, so that it can comply with
their obligation to respond to requests that have as their object the exercise of rights
of the interested parties established in Chapter III;
f) will help the controller to ensure compliance with the obligations established in the
articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment and the information to
disposition of the manager;
g) at the choice of the controller, will delete or return all personal data once
ends the provision of treatment services, and will delete existing copies unless
where the retention of personal data is required under Union law or
Member States;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate the
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as to allow and
contribute to the performance of audits, including inspections, by the controller or
another auditor authorized by said person in charge.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge shall inform
immediately to the controller if, in their opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulations or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of the
Member states.

4. When a person in charge of treatment uses another person in charge to carry out
certain treatment activities on behalf of the person in charge, will be imposed on this other
entrusted, by contract or other legal act established in accordance with the Law of the
Union or of the Member States, the same data protection obligations as the
stipulated in the contract or other legal act between the person in charge and the person in charge to whom
referred to in paragraph 3, in particular the provision of sufficient guarantees of application of
appropriate technical and organizational measures so that the treatment is in accordance with
the provisions of this Regulation. If that other manager breaches his obligations
of data protection, the initial processor will remain fully responsible to the
responsible for the treatment with regard to the fulfillment of the obligations of the other
in charge.

(…)

9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 shall be in writing,
including in electronic format.

(…)”.

These specific obligations may be supervised by the enforcement authorities.
data protection, without prejudice to the control that may be carried out in relation to
with compliance with the Regulations or the LOPDGDD by the person in charge or the
treatment manager.

In accordance with the provisions of article 28 GDPR, the person in charge and the person in charge
of data processing must regulate the processing of data in a contract or act
legal linking the person in charge with respect to the person in charge; that contract or legal act
must establish the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, the obligations and rights of the
responsible etc

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

The person in charge of the treatment, in turn, may resort to another person in charge
(“sub-processor”) provided that you have the prior written authorization of the
responsible for the treatment, either a specific or general authorization. In these
cases, the person in charge is obliged to inform the person responsible for the
changes in the incorporation or substitution of other managers, so that said
person responsible can oppose such changes.

The relationship that links the data controller and the person in charge, or the latter and another
commissioned, must be formalized in writing, including in electronic format. In
both cases must be imposed on the manager or "sub-manager" the same
obligations referred to in section 3 of article 28 transcribed.

In this case, a claim is made for making a call
commercial to the mobile telephone line of the complaining party whose purpose was
offer the services of the Naturgy entity (this commercial offer was accepted by the
complaining party, although he withdrew from it two days after acceptance).

The actions carried out have proven that said call took place and that it was
carried out by the entity Callsisten Energy, S.L., from a telephone line of its
ownership, as of 11/02/2021, according to the details listed in the
Proven Facts Seventh and Eighth.

In this regard, the entity Naturgy initially informed that the commercial call was
carried out by an agent of the entity GESTERPOOL, which provides Naturgy with
advice and commercial and technical support for customer acquisition, including the
carrying out telephone sales actions, intervening as the person in charge of the
treatment under the service contract formalized by both entities in
date 01/01/2021.

However, Naturgy later transferred the result of the audit to the AEPD
carried out on the case raised by the complaining party, giving an account of the
information that was provided by GESTERPOOL, according to which the latter entity
acknowledged that the indicated telephone call was made by the entity Callsisten
Energy, S.L., subcontracted for this purpose by GESTERPOOL. Naturgy has told the
respect that he was not aware of this subcontracting and that it was carried out without his
consent, despite the fact that the Service Contract and the Contract of Assignment of the
Treatment entered into between Naturgy and GESTERPOOL expressly prohibit
GESTERPOOL the subcontracting of work without the prior written approval of
Naturgy, as stated in the contractual stipulations that are outlined in
the background of this agreement and the First Proven Fact.

Consequently, by virtue of the foregoing, it is considered that the facts
exposed violate the provisions of article 28 of the GDPR by the entity
GESTERPOOL, which gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that the article
58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Breached obligation. Delivery of information to the Inspection Services.

II

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

On the other hand, it is proven that GESTERPOOL has not provided the Agency with
Spanish Data Protection Agency the information that was required by the Services
of Inspection through writings of 08/19/2022 and 09/30/2022, which were
duly notified to said entity.

With this conduct, the power of investigation that article 58.1 of the GDPR confers
control authorities, in this case, the AEPD, has been hampered.

Therefore, GESTERPOOL has violated article 58.1 of the GDPR, which provides that
each supervisory authority shall have all the investigative powers indicated in
continuation:

"a) order the person responsible and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the representative of the
responsible or of the person in charge, who provide any information required for the
performance of their duties;
b) carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits;
c) carry out a review of the certifications issued under article 42, paragraph
7;
d) notify the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment of the alleged infringements of the
this Regulation;
e) obtain access to all data from the data controller and data processor
personal data and all the information necessary for the exercise of their functions;
f) obtain access to all the premises of the controller and the processor,
including any equipment and means of data processing, in accordance with the
Procedural law of the Union or of the Member States”.

This breach gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that the article
58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Classification and classification of infractions

IV.

Failure to comply with the provisions of article 28 of the GDPR entails the commission for
GESTERPOOL of an offense typified in section 4.a) of article 83 of the
GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative" provides the following:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43;”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD establishes in its article 71 that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 of the LOPDGDD indicates:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial infringement
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
l) The hiring by a person in charge of the treatment of other managers without having the
prior authorization of the person in charge, or without having informed him about the changes produced in
subcontracting when legally required.
(…)”.

On the other hand, failure to comply with the provisions of article 58.1 of the GDPR is
constituting an infringement classified in section 5.e) of article 83 of the GDPR,
that under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative" provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

e) non-compliance with a resolution or a temporary or definitive limitation of the treatment
or the suspension of data flows by the supervisory authority pursuant to article
58, section 2, or not providing access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

"ñ) Failing to facilitate the access of the personnel of the competent data protection authority to the
personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of treatment that are required
by the data protection authority for the exercise of its investigative powers.
o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the inspection authority.
competent data protection”.

V

corrective powers

In the event of an infringement of the provisions of the GDPR, among the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as supervisory authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:

"2 Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated to
continuation:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person in charge or person in charge of the treatment when the
processing operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation;”

(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
conform to the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified period;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

SAW

Sanction

Violation of the provisions of article 28 of the GDPR may be penalized with
a maximum fine of €10,000,000 or, in the case of a company, a fine of one
amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total global annual business volume of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount, in accordance with the
Article 83.4 of the GDPR.

Violation of the provisions of article 58.1 of the GDPR may be penalized with
a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, a fine of one
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual business volume of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount, in accordance with the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

With respect to the indicated infractions, taking into account the facts exposed, it is
considers that the sanction that should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. Thus
considers, in advance, the status of microenterprise of the claimed party and
its volume of business (recorded in the proceedings (...)).

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, precept that states:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case.
individually, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
in each individual case due account shall be taken of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number of
affected stakeholders and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
Controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the same
matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
the offence”.

For its part, article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the offender's activity with data processing
personal.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of the
infringement.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the commission of the infraction,
that cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
disputes between those and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, for the purpose of setting the amounts of the
sanctions to be imposed in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate said
sanctions according to the following criteria:

1. Violation of article 28 of the GDPR, typified in 83.4.a) of the aforementioned GDPR, and
classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in article 73.l) of the GDPR:

The following graduation criteria are considered concurrent as aggravating factors:

. Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR: "a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the
infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered”.

. The number of interested parties: the infringement affects all the interested parties who
are the object of the commercial campaigns that the entity has executed
subcontracted by GESTERPOOL.

. Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR: "b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement".

In this case, GESTERPOOL's negligence must be classified as "serious" for
how much his conduct implies a breach of the stipulated clauses
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

15/17

expressly in the contract signed with Naturgy.

In this regard, what was declared in the Judgment of the Hearing
National of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006) that, based on the fact that they are entities
whose activity involves continuous data processing, indicates that "...the
The Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever
disregards a legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not
behave with the required diligence. And in the assessment of the degree of diligence has
to weigh especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt
that, in the case now examined, when the appellant's activity is
constant and abundant handling of personal data must be insisted on the
rigor and exquisite care to comply with the legal provisions in this regard”.

It is a company that performs personal data processing in a
systematic and continuous and that it must take extreme care in fulfilling its
data protection obligations.

This Agency understands that the diligence must be deduced from facts
conclusive, duly accredited and directly related
with the elements that make up the infringement, in such a way that it can be deduced
that it has occurred despite all the means provided by the
responsible to avoid it. In this case, the action of GESTERPOOL has no
this character.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD: "b) Linking the offender's activity
with the processing of personal data”.

The high link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data. It is considered the activity that develops, in which they are seen
involved personal data of numerous interested parties. this circumstance
determines a higher degree of demand and professionalism and, consequently,
of the responsibility of the claimed entity in relation to the treatment of
the data.

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation that reaches the fine, for the
violation of article 28 of the GDPR, is 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).

2. Violation of article 58.1 of the RGPD, classified in 83.5.e) of the aforementioned RGPD, and
classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1.ñ) and o) of the
GDPR:

The following graduation criteria are considered concurrent as aggravating factors:

. Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR: "b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement".

In this case, GESTERPOOL's negligence must be classified as "serious",
considering the circumstances already indicated in section 1 above. you have
In addition, take into account that the breach of the obligation to provide information
to the supervisory authority occurs in relation to two requirements of
information that was sent to you by the Inspection Services of this

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

Agency.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD: "b) Linking the offender's activity
with the processing of personal data”.

According to the circumstances expressed in section 1 above.

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation that reaches the fine, for the
violation of article 28 of the GDPR, is 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

V

adoption of measures

Once the infringement is confirmed, it is necessary to determine whether or not to impose
GESTERPOOL the adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its performance to the
regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2
d) of the GDPR, according to which each control authority may “order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”.

In this case, the entity Naturgy has declared that it has terminated the relationship
contractual agreement that it had signed with GESTERPOOL, to which it has revoked all
access to the contracting tool, by not having followed its instructions and
breached the obligations imposed. Based on this, it is not appropriate to impose
GESTERPOOL the obligation to adopt additional measures to the sanction of a fine.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE GESTERPOOL, S.L.U., with NIF B54691977, for a
infringement of article 28 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4.a) of the same
Regulation, and classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in article 73.l) of the
LOPDGDD, a fine of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros); and for a violation of
article 58.1 of the GDPR, typified in art. 83. 5.e) of the aforementioned GDPR, and classified as
very serious in article 72.1.ñ) and o) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 5,000 euros (five
a thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GESTERPOOL, SLU.

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
 IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
restricted no.
CAIXESBBXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.
Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

