1/17

 Procedure No.: PS/00041/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated October 9, 2018 Mr. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant),
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection against the
RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION, (hereinafter, the claimed or the Association),
for considering their right to information violated as a result of the following facts:
“I am a self-employed taxi and I belong to the TAXIS ASSOCIATION
 
RATAVESAN, which has given me a document for the authorization of my
personal data according to articles 13 and 14 of the European General Regulation of
Data protection 679/2016, of April 27 (RGPD), in this document is added
a paragraph in which I consent and authorize the RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION to
that my personal contact data may be transferred to other entities, in no
case states those entities or what my data will be used for. I have communicated
to the president of the RATAVESAN TAXI ASSOCIATION, BECAUSE I REFUSE and the
The answer I have received is that I am obliged or I would be given all the
documentation. I understand that my rights are being violated, (...)”

The claimant attaches a copy of the document called "Legal Document
New European RGPD for Associates of the Taxi Association” which, as indicated,
was delivered for signature by the respondent.

This document informs, among others, of the following aspects:
“That the personal data that you have provided us, in your capacity as a member
associated, will be treated by the RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION, as
Responsible for the treatment, for the purposes / with the purpose of internal management of the
association-associate relationship/fulfill the commitments between the parties.

Likewise, the TAXIS ASSOCIATION is expressly consented and authorized
RATAVESAN, to the management and processing of personal data for the purposes
previously mentioned; so that the personal contact data can be
transferred to other entities, provided that they are necessary to favor and fulfill the
purposes of the association.

(…)
The RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION undertakes not to process the data
of a personal nature for purposes other than those agreed upon, as well as not
assign them or communicate them to third parties except legal obligation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

(…)
No data will be transferred to third parties, except legal obligation. The rights that
attend are to file a claim with a supervisory authority, the right
of access, rectification, cancellation, limitation or opposition to its treatment
(ARC RIGHTS), to transparency of information, deletion (right to
oblivion), portability of your personal data, after proof of your identity,
by request/request sent by post/email, to the address
postal/email of the cooperative, with street address (...)”
SECOND: On January 22, 2019, you have entered this Agency in writing from the
claimed by answering the following points regarding the information that was
requested in relation to the facts object of the claim:

-

The respondent “considers that there has been no type of
incident / in terms of personal data protection, and therefore, has not
adopted any type of measure/s in this regard, understanding that it lacks
manifestly substantiates the claim, nor does it provide evidence or indications
reasons for the existence of an infraction.”

-

  That he has acted legitimately by referring the claimant, Secretary of the
previous Board of Directors, the express consent document for associates,
shipment made within the framework of the actions followed to regularize the
processing of personal data made to the RGPD.

- That in accordance with the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD and articles 4 and 8 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, the contradiction reported by the claimant does not occur
between the second and last paragraphs of said document, “because the assignments
produced, are necessary and mandatory, in some cases by legal imperative, with
the purpose of fulfilling the purposes of the Association itself (according to
is reflected in the statutes of the association).

-

Among the purposes included in the Statutes, the following stand out:

“The representation, defense and promotion of economic interests,
social, professional and cultural aspects of its members before all kinds of entities
public or private” and “The establishment of own services of common interest and in
particular to the conservation and coordination of the RADIO-TELEPHONE service IN
AUTO-TAXIS VEHICLES, in connection with the corresponding station
transmitter-receiver, in order to be able to meet the requests for services of
both urban and intercity transport, which by means are requested by the
users.”

-

That the regularization process initiated by the current management team
originates from the lack of proof of the legality of the treatments carried out with the
data of the associates and their transfer to the Canary Islands Regional Taxi Federation
(FEDETAX) and the SOCOMTAXI company, entities to which they belong from the
year 2000 and 2007, respectively, as collected in the corresponding Minutes.
According to the defendant, they are integrated into FEDETAX as a means to combine
supramunicipal interests and in SOCOMTAXI, which specifies the data of the
partners to manage and facilitate customer services.
THIRD: In view of the information contained in the "New RGPD Legal Document
European for Associates of the Taxi Association”, it is observed:

-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

-Regarding the information related to the purposes of the treatment to which it is
personal data and the legal basis of the treatment (article 13.1.c) of the
RGPD): Although it is noted that the data provided will be processed for the
“internal management of the association-associate relationship / fulfill the commitments between the
parts.”, and for their assignment “to other entities, whenever they are necessary to
favor and fulfill the purposes of the association.”, however, the
legal basis that legitimizes such treatments for each of the purposes for which
they obey the same

On the other hand, in the last paragraph of the document it is stated that "No
data to third parties, except legal obligation.”, while when in the second paragraph
of the document indicates that the transfer to other entities will take place "provided that
are necessary to promote and fulfill the purposes of the association.
There is, therefore, a contradiction in such statements.

-Regarding the information related to the recipients or the categories of
recipients of personal data, where appropriate (article 13.1.e) of the RGPD): No
informs that the personal contact data of the associates are communicated to
FEDETAX and SOCOMTAXI.

-Regarding the information referred to the exercise of rights (article
13.2.b) of the RGPD): Regarding the contact data offered for the exercise of
the rights recognized in articles 15 to 21 of the RGPD should not appear
references to cancellation rights and transparency of information.
The ARCO rights should not be mentioned either because they refer to the previous Law
Organic 15/1999, of December 13, Protection of Personal Data.
In addition, the respondent does not provide the email address to the

that the interested parties may address to exercise such rights.

-

Regarding the information referred to in article 13.2.e) of the
RGPD: It is not reported if the communication of personal data is a requirement
legal or contractual, or a necessary requirement to sign a contract, nor if the
The interested party is obliged to provide personal data, as well as the possible
consequences of not providing such data.
FOURTH: Consulted on May 28, 2019, the application of the AEPD that
shows information about the history of sanctions and warnings
precedents, there are no previous records for violation of the provisions of article 13
of the RGPD linked to the claimed.
FIFTH: On June 6, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure of Warning to the
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of articles 58.2.b) of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information and the free circulation of these data (General Protection Regulation
of Data, (hereinafter RGPD), for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

In said agreement, under the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD,
the corrective measures that could be imposed on the defendant were indicated in the
resolution to be adopted in the procedure in case the existence of the
described infraction, as well as the term that would be granted in said resolution for its
compliance and justification thereof.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

SIXTH: Notification of the start agreement, dated July 4, 2019, it is registered
entry in this Agency written of allegations of the claimed requesting the file
of the sanctioning procedure based, in summary, on the following
arguments:

-Denies that there is a violation of article 13 of the RGPD on its part, estimating
that it has acted legally and legitimately in referring the claimant, within the framework of the
regularization process to the RGPD with a date prior to December 7, 2018, the
express consent document for associates.

- That "The legal basis that legitimizes the treatments that justify each of
the purposes (they are those necessary for the internal management of the association-
associates / fulfill the commitments between the parties, to favor and fulfill the purposes
of the association, in accordance with the provisions of the Statutes of the association itself.
Association, and, in the legal provisions of the Organic Law 1/2022, of 22 of
March, regulating the Right of Association, and Law 4/2003, of February 28, of
Canary Associations.

Likewise, the aforementioned, justifies the fact that data will not be transferred to
third parties, except legal obligation and to favor and fulfill the purposes of the
association. (Statutes of the Association itself, and, in the legal provisions of the
Organic Law 1/2022, of March 22, regulating the Right of Association, and the
Law 4/2003, of February 28, on Canary Associations.)”

All this, also in accordance with current European and Spanish regulations on
protection of personal data, article 6 of the RGPD and articles 4 and 8 of the LOPDGDD.
- It is alleged that after the formulation of the claim, it was sent
to the claimant “Legal Document RGPD European LOPDGDD for Associates of the
Taxi Association” adapted to the new regulations, in which the assignment to
FEDETAX and SOCOMTAXI. A copy of said document is attached, indicating in
relation to himself:

That proves how the claimed guarantees the protection of the data of
personal character and the exercise of the rights recognized in articles 15 to 21 of the
RGPD and articles 13 to 18 of the LOPDGCC. Informs that no data will be transferred to
third parties, except legal obligation. The rights that assist you are to present a
claim before a control authority, the right of access, rectification,
cancellation, limitation or opposition to its treatment (Arch Rights), to the
transparency of information, deletion (right to be forgotten), portability of your
personal data, after proof of identity, by request/request
sent by post/email, to the postal/email address of
the cooperative.

- An assessment of what is stated in the "Report on the causes that
have motivated the incidence that has originated the claim” that is attached, in which
it is clarified that the claim is not based on an incident/infraction in
matter of protection of personal data or in a breach of the legislation
in force in this matter.
SEVENTH: On November 28, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated in
the sense that by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
imposed on the defendant, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR, a penalty of a warning for an infringement of article 13 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

Likewise, it was proposed to the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data that if at the time of adopting the appropriate resolution it had not been
rectified the irregular situation, the claimed party be ordered, in accordance with the
provided in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the adoption of the necessary measures
to adapt the information offered to the requirements contemplated in article 13
of the RGPD, and must provide associated users with all the information required in
the aforementioned precept and adapting that offered in the document examined to the
aspects revealed in the Basis of Law IV of the proposal for
resolution.

Said act was notified to the respondent on December 2, 2019.

EIGHTH: On December 19, 2019, entry is registered in this Agency
written arguments of the respondent to the resolution proposal indicating:

- That in compliance with the second section of the proposed resolution,
proceeded to inform the partners about the processing of their data in accordance with the
established in article 13 of the RGPD. To this end, it has been delivered to each of
them the informative clause on data protection whose copy is provided, being
proof of such delivery by signing such receipt. Also, it has been shown
said document on the Association board, which is justified by attaching
supporting documentation of such extremes.

- That on December 11, 2019, the burofax claimant was sent with
acknowledgment of receipt informing you of the processing of your data as established by the
article 13 of the RGPD. Attached burofax sent and acknowledgment of receipt dated 12
December 2019, as well as a copy of the document with the text sent by said
medium.

- That the data of the partners are transferred to the entities in charge of the
FEDETAX treatment, in order to be able to manage the services of representation and
defense, and SOCOMTAXI, in order to perform management coordination services
of fleets of vehicles of the partners, in accordance with the agreements approved
by the partners included in the minutes No. 6 of July 12, 2000 and No. 15 of April 5
of 2007. Attached is a copy of the treatment manager contracts signed with
these entities.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

FIRST: On October 9, 2018, entry is registered in this Agency
claim made by the claimant against the TAXIS ASSOCIATION
RATAVESAN stating that the "New European RGPD Legal Document for
Associates of the Taxi Association” that was given to him by the defendant for
complying with the duty of information established in the RGPD did not identify the
entities to which your personal contact data could be transferred or the
purposes for which said data would be used.
SECOND: In the Articles of Association of the RATAVESAN Taxi Association,
find

“Article 2 The purposes of the Association shall be the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

1. The representation, defense and promotion of economic interests,
social, professional and cultural rights of its affiliates before all kinds of
public or private entities”

2. The establishment of own services of common interest and in particular to the
of the conservation and coordination of the RADIO-TELEPHONE service IN
AUTO-TAXIS VEHICLES, in connection with the corresponding
transmitting-receiving station, in order to be able to attend to the requests
of both urban and intercity transport services, which through
are requested by users

3. Schedule the necessary actions to achieve social improvements,

labor and economics of its affiliates.

4. Organize constant training and professional promotion work and

culture of its members

THIRD: The respondent indicates the adoption of the following agreements, collected in
the documentation listed below:

-In Minutes No. 6 of June 12, 2000, it appears that the Association was integrated into

the Canary Islands Regional Taxi Federation (FEDETAX)

- In Act No. 15 of April 5, 2007, the Association assigns the services of its
customers to SOCOMTAXI, entity that currently manages the data of the
associates so that they can receive the services.
FOURTH: The claimant, who is an associate member of the Association, was part of
the Board of Directors of the same as Secretary between June 2009 and October 2015.
FIFTH: The current Board of Directors of the Association, appointed after the elections
held on October 31, 2015, has stated that in order to adapt to the
RGPD the treatments carried out with the personal information obtained
of its associates hired, on September 28, 2018, as an advisor to the
company PRODACAN
SIXTH: In October 2018, the respondent provided the associate members with the
"New European RGPD Legal Document for Associates of the Taxi Association"
for their signature. In this document, provided by the claimant, the
The respondent reported, among others, the following aspects:

“That the personal data that you have provided us, in your capacity as a member
associated, will be treated by the RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION, as
Responsible for the treatment, for the purposes / with the purpose of internal management of the
association-associate relationship/fulfill the commitments between the parties.

Likewise, the TAXIS ASSOCIATION is expressly consented and authorized
RATAVESAN, to the management and processing of personal data for the purposes
previously mentioned; so that the personal contact data can be
transferred to other entities, provided that they are necessary to favor and fulfill the
purposes of the association.

(…)
The RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION undertakes not to process the data
of a personal nature for purposes other than those agreed upon, as well as not
assign them or communicate them to third parties except legal obligation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

(…)
No data will be transferred to third parties, except legal obligation. The rights that
attend are to file a claim with a supervisory authority, the right
of access, rectification, cancellation, limitation or opposition to its treatment
(ARC RIGHTS), to transparency of information, deletion (right to
oblivion), portability of your personal data, after proof of your identity,
by request/request sent by post/email, to the address
postal/email of the cooperative, with street address (...)”
SEVENTH: In June 2019, the respondent has modified the "New Legal Document
European RGPD for Associates of the Taxi Association”, introducing the following
change:

“Furthermore, the TAXIS ASSOCIATION is expressly consented and authorized
RATAVESAN, to the management and processing of personal data for the purposes
previously mentioned; so that the personal contact data can be
transferred to other entities, provided that they are necessary to favor and fulfill the
own purposes of the association (SOCOMTAXI, FEDETAX,
  ENTITIES
PUBLIC/PRIVATE ENTITIES).”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that articles 55.1, 56.2, 57.1 and 58.2.b) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data, (hereinafter, RGPD),
recognize each control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Articles 1 and 2.1 of the RGPD provide the following:
“Article 1. Object
1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
rules relating to the free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of
natural persons and, in particular, their right to data protection
personal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

3. The free movement of personal data in the Union may not be
restricted or prohibited for reasons related to the protection of persons
regarding the processing of personal data.

Article 2. Material scope of application
1. This Regulation applies to the treatment in whole or in part
automated processing of personal data, as well as the non-automated processing of data
personal content or intended to be included in a file.”

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

9) "addressee": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
organization to which personal data is communicated, whether or not it is a third party. Nope
However, the public authorities that may receive
personal data in the context of a specific investigation in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States; the processing of such data by
said public authorities will be in accordance with the rules on protection
of data applicable to the purposes of the treatment;

11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern you;

Therefore, in accordance with those definitions, the collection, use and
communication of the personal data provided by those associated with the claimed
constitutes data processing, for which the data controller has
to comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD

III

In the present case, the defendant is charged with the violation of the duty to

inform provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the following:

“Article 13. Information that must be provided when the personal data

are obtained from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

Said precept must be related to what is established in article 12
of the RGPD, referring to the “Transparency of information, communication and modalities
exercise of the rights of the interested party”, which in its section 1 establishes the
Next:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate
to the interested party all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language,
in particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.”

In turn, both precepts are related to the provisions of the Considerations

two 60 and 61 of the aforementioned RGPD, which establish:

“(60) The principles of fair and transparent treatment require that the
interested party of the existence of the treatment operation and its purposes. The responsible
of the treatment must provide the interested party with as much complementary information as is
necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing, taking into account the
specific circumstances and context in which the personal data is processed. I know
must also inform the interested party of the existence of profiling and
the consequences of such elaboration. If personal data is obtained from
interested parties, they must also be informed of whether they are obliged to provide them and of the
consequences if they don't. This information may be transmitted in
combination with standardized icons that offer, in an easily visible way,
intelligible and clearly legible, an adequate overview of the treatment
provided. Icons presented in electronic format must be legible
mechanically.

(61) Data subjects should be provided with information on the processing of
your personal data at the time it is obtained from them or, if obtained from
another source, within a reasonable time, depending on the circumstances of the case. If the
personal data can be legitimately communicated to another recipient, it must be
inform the interested party at the time they are communicated to the recipient for the first time
time. The data controller who plans to process the data for a purpose that is not
is the one for which they were collected must provide the interested party, before said
further processing, information about that other purpose and other necessary information.
When the origin of the personal data cannot be provided to the interested party by
multiple sources have been used, general information should be provided.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
“Article 11. Transparency and information to the affected
1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must be

contain at least:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, in his

case.

b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the present case, from the assessment of the set of facts verified as a result of
of the actions carried out on the occasion of the processing of this
sanctioning procedure, it is evident that the defendant has violated the duty to
information that is required in your capacity as data controller
carried out with the personal data that it collects directly from its associates.

Thus, it is proven in the file that the defendant had not adopted
no measure tending to facilitate the associates at the time of collection of
your data the information provided for in the data protection regulations. In fact, in
the writings made by the person claimed before this Agency prior to the
formulation of the proposed resolution of the procedure, figure that was in October
2018 when, for the purposes of adapting to the RGPD, it provided its associates with the
information contained in the “New European RGPD Legal Document for
Associates of the Taxi Association”, (hereinafter, “New Legal Document
RGPD"), in order to comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, standard
which was applicable from May 25, 2018.

The aforementioned document presented the following informational deficiencies:
a) Regarding the information related to the purposes of the treatment to which
personal data and the legal basis of the treatment (article 13.1.c) of the
RGPD): the legal basis that legitimized the aforementioned treatments was not specified
in relation to each of the purposes to which they responded. Also
there was a contradiction regarding the statements related to the assignment
of data to third parties.

b) With respect to the information related to the recipients or the categories of
recipients of personal data (article 13.1.e) of the RGPD): It was not reported
that the personal contact data of the associates are communicated to FEDETAX and to
SOCOMTAXI.

c) With respect to the information referring to the exercise of rights (article
13.2.b) of the RGPD) references were included to rights not included among the articles
15 to 21 of the RGPD, such as the right of cancellation and the transparency of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

information, as well as the ARCO rights, an acronym that refers to the previous Law
Organic 15/1999, of December 13, Protection of Personal Data.
d) Regarding the information referring to the contact details of the person in charge
(article 13.1.a) of the RGPD: The email address was not provided to
which the interested parties could go to exercise such rights.

In the same way, it appears in the procedure that the defendant, after receiving the
aforementioned agreement to start it, in June 2019 modified the aforementioned "Document
Legal New RGPD”. Notwithstanding, having reviewed the content of the information
provided in that document, it was verified that the aforementioned deficiencies
the respondent had only corrected the one related to the lack of information concerning
the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data (article
13.1.e) of the RGPD), going on to inform of the communication of data of the associates
to FEDETAX and SOCOMTAXI to fulfill and favor the purposes of the Association.
Therefore, in the proposed resolution notified to the respondent, it was made
It should be noted that in the "New Legal Document" it continued without informing about the basis
law that legitimizes the treatments set forth in relation to each of the
purposes to which they respond. In this regard, it was observed
claimed that sections 1 to 3 of article 6.1 of the RGPD establish the following:

“Article 6. Legality of the treatment
1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation

applicable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or

of another natural person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the controller or by a third party, provided that on
such interests do not override the interests or rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to

treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more
in order to align the application of the rules of this Regulation with
regarding the treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting
more precisely specific treatment requirements and other measures that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

guarantee lawful and equitable treatment, including other situations
specific treatment under chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be

established by:

a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the person responsible for the

treatment.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis
or, in relation to the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), it will be necessary
for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public powers conferred on the data controller. This legal basis may
contain specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the retention periods of the
data, as well as the operations and procedures of the treatment, including the
measures to ensure lawful and fair treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional
to the legitimate end pursued.

In the aforementioned motion for a resolution it was pointed out that for the purposes of the
article 13.1.c) of the RGPD the legal basis of the treatments carried out for the purposes
specified could be fixed in the consent of the associates, for which
took into account the following information and circumstances:

-

What is alleged by the Association both in terms of the purposes of the Association
included in its Statutes (Proven Fact No. 2) as well as the agreements embodied in
Minutes No. 6 of June 12, 2000 and No. 15 of April 5, 2007 (Done
Tested No. 3);

- That in the "New Legal Document" it is indicated that "Furthermore, it is consented and
expressly authorizes the RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION to manage and
processing of personal data for the aforementioned purposes; a
that personal contact data may be transferred to other entities,
whenever they are necessary to promote and fulfill the purposes of the
association (SOCOMTAXI,
  PUBLIC ENTITIES/ENTITIES
PRIVATE).”

  FEDETAX,

On the other hand, the motion for a resolution noted that not being
justified by the respondent that the transfer of the data of the interested parties to FEDETAX
and SOCOMTAXI responded to the fulfillment of a legal obligation, it was
contradictory to inform that "No data will be transferred to third parties, except legal obligation",
as it appeared in the last paragraph of the amended "New Legal Document"
provided by the claimant. It was also pointed out that in this same final paragraph the
claimed continued to report on the existence of the right of cancellation and
transparency to information, not included in articles 15 to 21 of the RGPD.

It was added that the claimant had not eliminated the mention of the
“ARCO Rights”, which could lead to confusion as it was used as
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

acronym for the rights of individuals recognized in Organic Law 15/1999,
of December 13, Protection of Personal Data, a rule that is no longer
was in force. It was pointed out that, regardless of whether the
postal address of the Association, as the mailing address is not provided
contact email of the same, the information should be eliminated from the document
that was carried out on the possibility of exercising via email before the
claimed the rights cited.

Likewise, the cited resolution proposal stated that in the “Document
Legal New” studied the respondent continued without reporting the provisions of the
article 13.2.e) of the RGPD.

v

From what has been stated so far, it is evident that the defendant had not shown
the diligence that was required to establish the measures that result
necessary to adapt the information offered to the associates (interested parties) in order to
comply with the duty of information in the terms provided in article 13
of the RGPD, a rule that is applicable from May 25, 2018.

Consequently, the defendant has incurred in the violation of article 13 of the
RGPD described, materialized in a collection of personal data of the associates
without providing them, at the time of collection, all the information provided in the
aforementioned precept, a situation that is not modified by the actions
corrective actions undertaken by the respondent upon becoming aware after
receipt of the initiation agreement and the proposed resolution of the procedure to
in order to comply with the duty to inform in accordance with said precept.

Seated which, and without prejudice to the responsibility of the claimed in the
commission of the infraction imputed to him, it is recorded in the procedure that the
claimed has documented proof that, after receiving notification of the
aforementioned motion for a resolution, proceeded to adopt the technical and
organizational arrangements necessary for the processing operations to conform to what
provided in article 13 of the RGPD.

To this end, along with other measures described in the background of
fact eight, the Association has reformulated the document that it had been using, which has
renamed "Data Protection Information", including in it,
among other information to be provided to associates/interested parties at the time of
collection of your data, relating to the following aspects, as can be deduced from the
documentation provided:

-

a) Regarding the information related to the purposes of the treatment to which
personal data and the legal basis of the treatment (article 13.1.c) of the
RGPD): it is specified that “The legitimacy for the use of your data is based on your
consent when registering with the association and accepting its statute.”

-

b) With respect to the information related to the recipients or the categories of
recipients of personal data (article 13.1.e) of the RGPD): it is reported that
”to fulfill the functions of the association, your data will be transferred to the
entities in charge of the treatment REGIONAL FEDERATION OF TAXIS OF
CANARIAS (FEDETAX) in order to be able to manage the services of representation and
defence, and the GRAN CANARIA TAXI MARKETING COMPANY
(SOCOMTAXI) in order to perform fleet management coordination services

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

of partner vehicles. Likewise, your data will also be transferred in cases of
legal obligation"

-

c) With respect to the information referring to the exercise of rights (article
13.2.b) of the RGPD): it is specified that the interested parties may exercise before the
claimed the rights mentioned in article 13.2.b) relating to your data,
although it has omitted to inform about the right to oppose the treatment, reason why
which the respondent is urged to remedy said omission by adding the aforementioned right of
Opposition contained in article 21 of the RGPD in the new document or clause
informative.

- In addition, it has removed the references to the right of cancellation and transparency

information and the acronym ARCO is no longer cited.

-

d) Regarding the information referring to the contact details of the person in charge
(article 13.1.a) of the RGPD: the mention that the interested parties
could exercise their rights by email, providing only to such
effects the postal address of the Association.

SAW

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, in its sections 2 and 5.b) states that:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). (…)

5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;”.
For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law.”, providing in article 74.a) of said norm that “It is
considered minor and will prescribe after a year the remaining infractions of a
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a)

Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the
right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Of the exposed facts and reasoned arguments in the previous
grounds of law, and without prejudice to the measures adopted by the Association
to provide its associates with the complete information required in article 13 of the
RGPD, it is considered proven that the claimed party has breached the duty to
information that is required when the data of the interested parties processed is
obtained from them, resulting, therefore, responsible for the commission of the
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b)
of the RGPD, and qualified as mild for prescription purposes in article 74.a) of the
LOPDGDD.

In the present case, confirmed the existence of the infraction described,
considers it appropriate to impose the sanction of warning provided for in article
58.2.b) of the RGPD in view of the following circumstances: the main activity of the
claimed is not linked to the usual treatment of personal data
staff; that the data collected from the interested parties is processed in relation to the
own services of the claimed and the condition of associates of the interested parties, throughout
that is added that the administrative fine that could fall in accordance with the provisions
in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, an entity that is not aware of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the RATAVESAN TAXIS ASSOCIATION, with NIF
G35447077, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, a
sanction of warning for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the TAXIS ASSOCIATION
RATAVESAN, with NIF G35447077.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

