Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments from March 30th, 2023
                        
                            03/30/2023
                          
                      


data protection



press release


Test criteria for "pure subscription models" on websites For some time now, so-called "pure subscription models" have been increasingly offered, particularly on media websites. The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) has now published its decision on the "Assessment of pure subscription models on websites" from March 22nd, 2023. With a "pure subscription model", the users of a website are usually given two options via a consent banner in order to be able to read the content of the website: either they conclude a "pure subscription" or they consent - without "pure Abo" - that their data may be used for profile-based and individualized advertising. Only if the "pure subscription" is selected, the website can be used without tracking their behavior, individual profiling and personalized advertising. The users therefore do not pay for the content on the website, e.g. B. Newspaper articles, but that their personal data is not monetized by digital marketing in the context of use. Since the introduction of the first "pure subscription models", the supervisory authorities have regularly received complaints about websites offering these models. The data protection conference has now specified and defined the requirements for "pure subscription models" in its resolution on the "Assessment of pure subscription models on websites". In practice, the resolution can serve as an aid for the concrete design of a “pure subscription model”. In particular, the data protection conference determined with the decision that the tracking of user behavior (tracking) can in principle be based on consent if a tracking-free model is offered as an alternative, even if this is chargeable. If there are several processing purposes, it must be possible to grant granular consent. With the decision, the test standards of the data protection supervisory authorities in complaints procedures will become much more transparent for the public. The decision "Assessment of Pur subscriptions on websites" is published at: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/pm/DSK_Beschluss_Wertung_von_Pur-Abo-Modellen_auf_Websites.pdf Further information on the data protection conference, the merger of the independent German data protection supervisory authorities of the Federal and state governments are available at: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.deContact: Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023 Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98 24103 Kiel Telephone: 0431 988 1289 E-mail: dsk2023(at)datenschutzzentrum .de
return

Associated files

Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments from March 29th, 2023

(PDF document)
459KB

Resolution of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of March 22, 2023

(PDF document)
660KB
