1/6

 File No.: EXP202206806

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated June 13, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
tion is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party in the file ***FILE.1 states that the inadmissibility
of your claim for a camera oriented to areas of the home of the party
claimant was based on the fact that the claimed party alleged that the affected area is
property of the latter, although the claimant states that by virtue of Proceedings
Verbal Trial proceedings XXXX/XXXX followed before the ***COURT.1, substantiated on
about the possession of the strip of land on which the party keeps the recordings
claimed, which has dismissed the claim of the claimed party to declare himself
Seeder of that portion of land, understands that it is proven that the part on which
that projects the action the camera of the claimed party is alien to the property of the
claimed party, and therefore, the orientation of the camera installed in the domicile of the
claimed party, capturing the aforementioned land, is contrary to the protection regulations
of data.

Provide a copy of the judgment dated June 1, 2022, simple note of the
house and photos of the location of the camera at the time of the present claim
(Annex I).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 06/15/22, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the plan
within one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements.
cough in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
cas (hereinafter, LPACAP), was notified in a timely manner as stated in the acknowledgment
of receipt that works in the file.

THIRD: On 07/03/22 the "response" of the transfer made by this
Agency whose content is as follows:

“But what they don't say is that the sentence IS NOT FINAL, and it can be appealed.
Appeal that has been filed on 07/01/22, and I don't know how to send it to you. Said appeal-
I calculate that it will not be the result until the first quarter of the year 2023”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FOURTH: On September 12, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FIFTH: On December 13, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter
te, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

SIXTH: On 01/05/23, this agency received a written response to the
claimed party to the Commencement Agreement, notified under the terms of the current LPAC,
stating in law the following in relation to the claim presented:

"(...) I wish to state that the Judgment that serves as the basis for the claim
It is not yet firm since it is appealed in Appeal at the Hearing
Provincial (Cantabria) Section 4, whose appeal is processed with the number of
reference Verbal Trial Appeals 785/2022.

In order to prove the above, I attach the following documents: Copy

Writ of Appeal with stamp of entry in the Court.

-Writ of appearance as Appellant (...)

"In view of the foregoing, I request the FILE of the file until such time as
decide definitively by the Courts of Justice on the possession and
ownership of the strip of land (…)”.

SEVENTH: On 01/27/23 <Proposed Resolution> is issued in which
proposes the File of the procedure as the matter of substance is judicialized in the
At present, not having accredited "data processing" of third parties, nor being
this competent body to enter into the substantive civil matter.

The information system of this body contains the notification to the party
Claimed on 02/03/23 according to <Acknowledgment of receipt> sent by the Official Service
of Posts and Telegraphs and incorporated into the administrative file.

EIGHTH: Consulted the database of this Agency on 02/20/23, there is no record
that any writing has been received from the claimed party, nor any complementary allegation
for this purpose has been produced.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 06/13/22 through the
which the presence of a video-surveillance camera that could affect “te-
land of his ownership” according to the Judgment provided by him.

Second. It is accredited as the main person responsible for the installation of the system
B.B.B., who does not deny the installation of the cameras.

Third. The "private" ownership of the strip of land on which
that we understand operates the video-surveillance camera(s), being a matter
court between the parties.

Room. There is no accredited "data processing" of the claimant and/or their
relatives, nor that they have been disseminated in any way.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In the present case, the claim dated 06/13/22 is examined through the
which moves the presence of a camera that records strip of private land of the par-
claimant according to its manifestation.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
to intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
nas of transit of the same without justified cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The purpose of this type of device must be the security of the property and
its inhabitants, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties who are intimidated
two with the same

II

On 01/05/23, a written statement of allegations was received from the claimed party arguing
the "non-firm" nature of the Judgment provided by the claimant, having been re-
completed in time and form according to documentary provided to this Agency.

Remember that a judicial pronouncement is not firm, if it is possible to review the
itself, so it is not definitive, moment from which it can be demanded
compliance with its terms.

Since we are faced with a judicial issue, whose pro-
announcement can become "uncertain" at the present time, it does not correspond to this order.
willingness to venture into issues of the civil jurisdictional order, considering
At the present time there is no objective evidence that determines an affectation to the
right to data protection of the claimant.

Both parties should be reminded that this body is not the competent body
to resolve the controversy between them, providing extensive documentary far from the
study area of the same, incardinated in the civil framework and also object of analysis
by the competent judicial bodies by reason of the matter.

It must be in a civil court where at the moment in your case the
question, whether the presence of the camera(s) supposes a gross invasion of the
right to privacy of the claimant and/or their relatives, although in the terms set forth
to this body, the question focuses on the "strip of land" and not so much on a
"data processing" that does not comply with current legislation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

All the arguments presented to this Agency are based on the dispute between the
parties for the presumed “ownership” of a strip of land between the properties of
both, as justified by the expressions "property title", "purchase title"
"cadastral reference", without the misuse of the images having been specified
(personal data) in the regulatory framework that corresponds to this body.

It is not the job of this body to assess the documentary presented in the
terms exposed as a "reassessment" of evidence presented in the instances
competent civilians, who are also subject to appeal as the Judgment is not "firm".
initially provided by the complaining party.

This body can only at this time recommend a renewal of
the relations between the parties pending the corresponding judicial pronouncement
or raise the issue in civil court in the case of finding ourselves before a
glaring affectation of the "right to privacy" of the complaining party and/or their family-
beef.

The Judgment of the National Court of April 1, 2011, appeal 2223/2010, in
its Legal Foundation IV, last paragraph includes the following:

“The importance and transcendence of data protection regulations and the re-
lifting of the constitutional rights that are at stake, advise that
do not put themselves at the service of particular quarrels that must be resolved in areas
that should have relevance only in the domestic sphere that is its own and not
a sphere such as the jurisdictional one. The seriousness involved in the exercise of power
sanctioning body recommends that the administrative and
jurisdictions only when it is supposed that there has been a
true violation of the fundamental right to data protection. Such circumstance-
cia does not concur in the present case”.

Any other "controversial" issue that may occur in the strip of land de-
should be transferred to the Security Forces and Corps of the locality, where appropriate.
quality, which can, where appropriate, intervene and guide the parties as to whether they find us
We are faced with alleged violations of data protection.

IV.

According to the arguments of both parties and evidence provided, it is considered
that there is no objective evidence that proves an affectation of the right of the re-
plaintiff in the matter of data protection, reason that justifies the proposal of Ar-
goat of the current procedure.

Both parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake,
while avoiding instrumentalizing this body in matters of civil property, away from
of the competence framework of this body, having to wait, where appropriate, for the result
of the opportune judicial pronouncements or by providing objective evidence
in the matter that occupies this body that allow a new assessment of the
exposed facts.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited that the facts object of transfer suppose an administrative infraction
in terms of data protection.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Mr. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

