

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-01260/21


The check with this company was
launched on the basis of eight complaints about the sending of commercial messages, but also
especially since she has been with this company in previous years
conducted both control and administrative proceedings. Their subject was also dissemination
commercial communications, while these proceedings always found a violation of the relevant
legislation in this area. Subject to sent business
the messages were offers of specific types of goods for schools or companies and business
the message referred to the website of the controlled person. Under review
the auditee stated that indeed all the commercial communications in question
she sent However, none of the email contacts were her clients or
customer. Regarding the sender, she said that she started using a paid service
for sending commercial messages, while only their own should be used
contacts from our own customer database (numbering approx. 11 thousand
tradable entities), however, there was apparently a mixing of newly acquired ones
contact information with the original contacts. She further said that the company
providing her with only a mailing service is not responsible for this action because
is only the provider of the given service. She then dealt with this company
blocking the mailing until it brings its database into compliance
with the relevant laws and will therefore contain only those e-mail contacts
addresses that actually belong to the customers or recipients who gave
consent to sending commercial messages. Controlling in this matter
found a violation of § 7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain services
information society. As it was with this company
there have been or have been several proceedings in the past on the same matter
alerted to the fact that it uses commercial communications for mailings
only e-mail addresses that it has obtained from its customers in accordance with § 7 paragraph 3 of the Act
No. 480/2004 Coll., or from users, addressees who have given consent to
by sending business communications in accordance with § 7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., the controller observed
to the fact that this is a continuous and already long-term systemic problem
misconduct of the inspected person. As regards compliance with other conditions for
sending business communications referred to in § 7 paragraph 4 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., controlling
found that the commercial communications in question (with the exception of one commercial communication)
it did not contain any information about how to send commercial messages
opt-out (cancel), for example in the form of a link (click-through) or mention
e-mail addresses or other options for how to proceed when logging out.

Given that it wasn't already
it is possible to prove whether at least the sending e-mail addresses to which were functional
it would be possible to opt out of sending commercial messages, it could not be
found a violation of § 7 paragraph 4 letter c) Act No. 480/2004 Coll. Controlling
however  in this context
strongly advised the auditee to correct this deficiency and in each
business communication to include information about how they can be sent
terminate (cancel) as required by § 7 paragraph 3 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. Objections
were not filed against the report on control by the controlled person.

In this case, it was subsequently
administrative proceedings were conducted and the inspected person was fined CZK 250,000 for the above-mentioned violations, which
has already acquired legal force. Recommendation: The Authority recommends that you
companies verified before each mailing that their electronic databases
of contacts for sending business messages really only contain those contacts
who are their customers and at the same time have not refused to send commercial messages,
or it is the contacts that they have given by sending commercial messages
agreement. Furthermore, it is advisable to set up the relevant control for this purpose
mechanisms so that possible errors are detected as soon as possible. Every business communication must contain
information on how to refuse to receive commercial communications. In relationship
this option must be given to customers clearly, distinctly, simply, free of charge
or to the account of the relevant natural or legal person.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 1st half of the year > Commercial companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



