1/12

936-031219
Procedure No.: PS/00397/2019

RESOLUTION R/00028/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00397/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to ZHANG BORDETA 2006, S.L., given the complaint
presented by D.G. CIVIL GUARD - POST OF TÁRREGA, and based on the
following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 19, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against ZHANG
BORDETA 2006, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), by means of the Agreement
transcribe:

<<

948-230919

Procedure no.: PS/00397/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data, and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On June 4, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by D.G. CIVIL GUARD - POSITION OF
TÁRREGA (*hereinafter, the claimant), through which the claim is made
against ZHANG BORDETA 2006, S.L. with NIF B25616962 (hereinafter, the claimed one),
for the installation of a video surveillance system installed in AVENIDA ARTESA 27,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

BORDELA, LLEIDA, with indications of a possible breach of the provisions
in art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents

provided by the claimant are the following:

“Disproportionate recording of public thoroughfares, lacking

informative form inside the establishment” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The result of this action is
describes below.

As stated on the official signs, the installation company is HIPERTEC and

his telephone number is 973 238677.

The range of the cameras is barely 4-5 meters, since they are located
focused from the ceiling down. The company has two businesses together, one
shop and a restaurant bar. The restaurant has one with a detail of the bar, where
only the position of the employees and the boxes are appreciated. Another one focusing on the terrace
outside, with hardly any visibility, beyond it. Another of an overview of the
restaurant dining room and another general view of the bar and bar tables. Trade
It has 3 cameras, one with an overview of the store from the back to the door, another
side view of the store near the entrance and another one in the cashier area and
counter.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution dated
09/24/2019.

FOURTH: It is associated with the reported in the operating system of this Agency
a previous complaint in E/07286/2018 where he was widely informed of the
regulations on data protection, warning you about not obtaining images of
on public roads, as well as the obligation to have a form available to
the clients.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 06/04/19 in
where the following is transferred as the main fact:

“Disproportionate recording of public thoroughfares, lacking

informative form inside the establishment” (folio nº 1).

 The behavior described was framed in the content of art. 5.1 c) RGPD that

provides the following: “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

From the images provided, it is confirmed that images of the sidewalk were obtained
public, outside the cases legally permitted, by exceeding the rights of a
particular when installing this type of device.

The art. 77 section 5 Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the legal requirements
corresponding the facts verified by those are gathered will prove of
unless proven otherwise”.

The installation of security camera(s) in private spaces may not

obtain images of public spaces.

For the control and protection of the establishment, only the cameras are necessary
interiors, not being able to control the public space attached to its establishment, even
when you have tables for customers (as).

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or in
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

inside, it may be necessary to ensure the purpose of security recording
of a portion of the public highway. That is, cameras and camcorders installed with
security purposes may not obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the
articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, resulting from application -by not contradicting the
provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided for in article 3 of the
Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, on the Processing of Personal Data for Surveillance Purposes through
Camera or Video Camera Systems.

Specifically, it must be placed in the video-monitored areas, at least one
informative badge located in a sufficiently visible place, both in spaces
open and closed, in which at least the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in these regulations. Likewise, it must be kept available to the
affected the information referred to in the aforementioned RGPD.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

In relation to the foregoing, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“normative”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both
available in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out data processing of low
risk, the free tool Facilita (in the “Guides and tools” section), which
through specific questions, it allows to assess the situation of the person in charge
regarding the processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate
various documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with
indicative security measures considered minimal.

IV

The claim is based on the Complaint transferred to this body by the
State Security Forces and Bodies that confirms that with the cameras
installed in the establishment "takes over the public sidewalk" without just cause.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”.

When motivating the sanction, the following are taken into account:

-the nature of the infraction, by obtaining images of passers-by

permanently, outside the permitted cases (art. 83.2ª) RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

-The negligence of the infraction, having been widely informed by this
Agency of the measures that it had to comply with, showing total passivity when it came to
adjust the system to the regulations in force (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

Based on the foregoing, it is considered correct to propose a sanction encrypted in
the amount of €6,000 (Six Thousand Euros), located on the lower scale for this type of
infractions.

The foregoing without prejudice to proving the removal of the outer chamber, in such a way
so that public space is not captured, being able to only control the interior of its
establishment, excluding “reserved” areas.

You must have an information form available to the client(s) who
could obtain it, having to keep a copy of it at the disposal of the Forces and
Security Bodies that may require it in inspections of the establishment (vgr.
You can download it for free from the AEPD website www.aepd.es).

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, according to the above,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against the ZHANG entity
BORDETA 2006, S.L., with NIF B25616962, for the alleged infringement of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD, by having a video surveillance camera that records the public sidewalk,
infraction typified in art. 83.5 a) RGPD, being punishable in accordance with the
art. 58.2 GDPR.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

SECOND: APPOINT A.A.A. as instructor, and secretary, if applicable, B.B.B.
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).
THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data, all of them part of the administrative file.
FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP, hereinafter), the sanction that could correspond would be €6,000 (Six Thousand
Euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infraction, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition

of measures in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the entity ZHANG BORDETA 2006, S.L.,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations, this initial agreement may
be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article 64.2.f) of
the LPACAP.

The sanctioning procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months.
counting from the date of the start agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft agreement of
beginning. Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file
of performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

set at €4,800 (Four Thousand Eight Hundred Euros), resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €4,800 (Four Thousand Eight Hundred Euros)
and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. if it proceeded
apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at €3,600 (Three
Sixteen hundred Euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, you must make it effective by entering the
account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the
concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it avails itself. Likewise,
You must send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

>>

 : On December 31, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
the sanction in the amount of 3,600 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00397/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ZHANG BORDETA 2006, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

