1/6

 File No.: EXP202105857

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated December 13, 2021, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection a complaint filed by the CIVIL GUARD -
PUESTO DE VILLABLANCA (hereinafter, the complainant), through which he formulates
complaint against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). the record
complaint, dated November 30, 2021, shows that the defendant
It has an installation of a video surveillance system, installed in
***ADDRESS.1, in which the cameras are directed towards the public thoroughfare and are not
duly signposted the mandatory informative posters of the video-monitored area.

The documents provided by the claimant are the following:

-

Report made by the FFCCSE in which it is shown that these
same non-compliances were previously detected, denounced before
this Agency, and that they are aware of a letter from the AEPD in which it was communicated to the
Civil Guard that the defendant had been informed of his obligations regarding
regarding the protection of personal data without the now denounced having
proceeded to correct these non-compliances.

- Photo report

SECOND: Likewise, it should be stated that on September 30, 2020,
received in this Agency a complaint filed by the CIVIL GUARD - POSITION OF
VILLABLANCA for these same facts that gave rise to the processing of the file
of reference E/08325/2020. Within the framework of said file, a letter was sent to the
denounced, duly notified on October 16, 2020, in which he was
informed of the reception of the complaint in the Agency for some facts that
would violate the data protection regulations, with regard to the treatment of
images and where you could find out about the requirements to carry out
carry out personal data processing through this type of device.

THIRD: On March 17, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) and 13 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD),
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the established rules
in the LPACAP, the respondent filed a pleadings brief in which, in
In short, it stated the following:

He begins by stating that he has not been aware of the initiation agreement until the day
May 3, 2022 since a neighbor had picked it up since he sold that
housing in December 2021.

Next, he explains the reasons that led him to install the cameras (“threat
of squatters in the area"), and their dissuasive nature since they never
they were connected.

Finally, he reports that the cameras have been removed by the new owner to
your indication.

FIFTH: On May 11, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
that the allegations presented were collected, responding to them and
proposing the filing of the proceedings.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The FFCCSE have revealed the existence of a system of
video surveillance, installed at ***ADDRESS.1, in which the cameras are directed
towards public roads and the mandatory signs are not properly marked
video surveillance area news in November 2021.

SECOND: It is identified as the main responsible A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1,
who acknowledges being responsible for the installation of the existing device in the
date of complaint.

THIRD: There is no evidence that the video surveillance system subject to
claim has processed any personal data given that the party
claimed maintains that it has not come into operation.

FOURTH: According to the information provided by the respondent, the system of
video surveillance has been dismantled in December 2021.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD, grants to each authority of
control and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be "adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

The treatment of images through a video surveillance system, to be
In accordance with current regulations, it must meet the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

III

In the present case, it is appropriate to analyze the presumed illegality of a system of
video surveillance located at ***ADDRESS.1.

The proven facts show the existence of a system of
video surveillance that, according to the statements made by the claimed party,
has never been operational, therefore not treating any image, and that it has already been
unmounted.

In this regard, it should be noted that, in accordance with the provisions of article 28.7 of the LPACAP
“The interested parties will be responsible for the veracity of the documents that
present”.

The principle of the right to the presumption of innocence, recognized as a right
fundamental subjective in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, prevents imposing
an administrative sanction when proof of
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
themselves of the alleged offender and applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of the LPACAP, which establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:
[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

In relation to this principle, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 76/1990, of 26
of April, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails: “that the
sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating the
reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without
no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the
result of the tests carried out, freely valued by the sanctioning body,
must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

Based on all of the above, it can be concluded that it has not been proven that the facts
object of this procedure constitute an administrative infraction in the
matter at hand. Well, on the one hand, it has been found that the
video surveillance in question that did not capture images of identified natural persons
or identifiable, thus not existing treatment of personal data; and on the other,
this system has been dismantled.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of the administrative infraction object of claim.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

