 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

711.447.1

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

September 17, 2021

Berlin school law: Reform strengthens data protection in the education sector

 

On Thursday, the Berlin House of Representatives made far-reaching changes to the Berliner
school law passed. The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information,
Maja Smoltczyk, welcomes the changes made regarding data protection:
"This puts the use of digital learning aids in Berlin's schools on a secure footing,"
says Smoltczyk. "I am pleased that the House of Representatives accepted my proposals to strengthen
the protection of personal data of students and teachers into law
take over. With the new regulations, the Berlin schools are for the digital
Age armed.”
 
A major change concerns the processing of personal data
Pupils and teachers using digital learning materials in the classroom. Here creates
the School Act now finally has a legal basis that explicitly states this data processing
permitted. For schools, this brings the necessary legal certainty. For example, the
Obtaining consent to use video conferences and the Berlin learning space
no longer necessary.
 
In addition, the school law obliges the Berlin Senate Department for Education to
regularly a selection for the digital teaching and
determine learning materials. The House of Representatives is thus responding to a demand by the
data protection officer. The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that schools
the necessary assistance in selecting data protection-compliant digital tools
is given.
 
The data protection officer points out that in many schools there is still uncertainty
rule, which services can be used safely from a data protection point of view.
So far, it has been the task of the school management and teachers to provide the services legally, technically and
to examine pedagogically. The new regulation relieves the schools of this task and
bundle the necessary legal and technical examination at the Senate Administration. At
By taking advantage of this offer, the schools can be confident that data protection compliant
use digital learning tools. The capacities that are freed up can be used again in the
pedagogical work.
 
"Berlin can now proudly say that it has one of the most modern school laws
digital lessons made possible in accordance with data protection regulations. The law can also apply to others
federal states to be trend-setting. Now the Senate Department for Education is in demand
to modernize outdated school data regulation and a regulation to the digital
to enact learning materials in order to bring the law to life in practice,” explains the
Data Protection Officer.

 
Responsible: Simon Rebiger

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   