1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00060/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim presented by the Court has been received in this Agency
of First Instance and Instruction No. 1 of ***LOCALITY.1, dated 18
December 2019. The claim is directed against D. A.A.A. with NIE ***NIE.1 (in
later, the claimed one).

The claim presented by the Court by virtue of what was agreed in the
procedure, Trial on minor crimes nº ***PROCEDIMIENTO.1, in which it is dictated
sentence against the defendant for the crime of fraud in obtaining a microcredit to
through the web portal ***URL.1 and for which the respondent made use of the data
third-party personal.
Date on which the claimed events took place: April 16, 2019
Documentation provided by the claimant:

- Sentence nº ***SENTENCIA.1 on the minor crime of fraud.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

On January 21, 2020, in procedure E/00577/2020, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection agreed to carry out these actions of
investigation in relation to the facts reflected in the claim in order to
correctly identify the claimant.
- It is proven, according to Judgment No. *** JUDGMENT.1, that the claimant
used third party data for a micro loan application.
- Requested from the entity Nbq Technology, S.A.U., lender of the micro loan that
gave rise to the trial for a minor crime of fraud, to report whether the
data provided in the loan application to any asset solvency file and
credit. On February 17, 2020 it is received in this Agency, with registration number

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

007283/2020, written response to the request stating that the data of the
presumed holder of the loan had not been included in any solvency file
patrimonial and credit due to the fact that they received, only 8 days after the expiration
of the credit, police report of the presumed fraud.
- Requested to the Court the identification data of the claimed, dated July 2
of 2020 is received at this Agency, with registration number 022961/2020, letter of
reply reporting them.
- It is stated in Judgment No. ***SENTENCIA.1 that the defendant has been sentenced to
the penalty of two months fine at a rate of eight euros per day of quota (which makes
a total of 480 euros) and the payment of procedural costs.

THIRD: On March 1, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR. Said agreement was notified by post on March 18, 2021 and through
of the BOE edictal board on April 9, 2021.

FOURTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the one claimed at the time of the
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the defendant according to judgment No. ***SENTENCE.1
of the Court of First Instance and Instruction No. 1 of ***LOCATION.1, dated 9
December 2019, made use of the personal data of third parties to obtain
of a micro loan through the web portal ***URL.1.
 
SECOND: On March 1, 2021, this sanctioning procedure was initiated by the
alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, being notified on March 18 and
April 2021. Not having made allegations, the respondent, to the initial agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The General Data Protection Regulation deals in article 5 with the
principles that must govern the processing of personal data and mentions among
them that of "legality, loyalty and transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party;”

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

conditions:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD is typified in article 83
of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative”, says:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72.1.b) qualifies this infraction, for the purposes
of prescription, as a very serious infraction.

The documentation in the file offers evidence that according to
collects judgment No. ***SENTENCIA.1 of the Court of First Instance and
Instruction No. 1 of ***LOCALITY.1, dated December 9, 2019, the respondent
processed the data of a third party for the application of a microcredit, without complying with any
of the legal authorizations that appear in article 6 of the RGPD.

In short, there is evidence in the file that the defendant dealt with the
personal data of the third party without legitimacy to do so. The behavior described violates the
article 6.1. of the RGPD and is subsumable in the sanctioning type of article 83.5.a, of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

GDPR.

III

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the precautions

 
visions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

  In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed on the person claimed as responsible for an infraction
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, it is estimated
Concurrent in this case, as aggravating factors, the following factors:

- In the present case we are dealing with an intentional action. (art.83.2. b) of the
GDPR).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. A.A.A., with NIE ***NIE.1, for a violation of Article
6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 1,000 euros (one thousand
euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D.A.A.A..

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

