1/14

 File No.: EXP202105653

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against LAST LAP, S.L. (in
hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202105653
 

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 31, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against LAST LAP, S.L. with NIF B80891211 (hereinafter, the
claimed party).

The claim is directed against the organizer of the San Silvestre Vallecana because
requires participants, in order to register for the race, to provide their passport
COVID or, failing that, submit a PCR or antigen test done within 72 hours
pre-race.

The result of the test signed by a physician will be required by e-mail 96
hours before the race and will have to be uploaded to the link that will be in said e-mail (art,
10 of the Race Regulations).

Specifically, it refers to the fact that consent is not specifically collected.
and that the data retention period is not reported.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on December 27, 2021, said claim was transferred
to the claimed party, so that it could proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on December 27, 2021 as
It is stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On January 26, 2022, in response to the aforementioned request, the entity claimed
stated that it carried out the collection and processing of personal data of the
users interested in participating in the San Silvestre Vallecana race and neither the
claimant, nor any other user, has submitted any request to exercise
data protection rights before the claimed entity.

The entity complained against alleges that the purpose of requesting said personal data is not
other than avoiding possible infections and, in this way, protecting the health of all
participants in the race.

The claimed entity prepared and published a Race Regulation, which all
users can find
  in his web page
(https://sansilvestrevallecana.com/descargas/ReglamentoPopular.pdf).

  and consult

The basis that legitimizes the treatment of the data of the participants in the race,
including your health data, is the execution of the contractual relationship established
between registered users and the claimed entity and considers that, in no
moment, consent may be the basis that legitimizes this data processing,
since, in this case, any registered user could refuse to provide these
evidence, participating in the race while infected with COVID-19 and infecting
other participants.

He points out that he does not have a Data Protection Delegate, because he is not
within the entities obliged to not process data on a large scale, nor of categories
special data or data relating to convictions and criminal offenses

Regarding the evidence requested to participate in the race (COVID passport or
PCR test or antigens), these evidences have been eliminated once they are no longer
necessary, that is, once the race is over, since we understand that there is no
no legal obligation to retain such information nor is it possible to receive
claims relating to said data processing for the purpose for which
were collected (registered users who provided the corresponding evidence
already participated in the race).

He concludes by saying that since the next race of the San Silvestre Vallecana
will take place on December 31, 2022, if by that time the
situation regarding COVID-19, we will analyze the situation and, since it is likely
there is no need to request such evidence, it will not be requested or collected or
These health data of future participants will be processed, however, in the event of
that is considered necessary or mandatory, unless the AEPD provides otherwise,
will also proceed to collect them for the purposes indicated
previously.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

THIRD: On January 31, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

The RGPD in its article 5, "Principles related to the treatment" says that "The data
personal will be:

processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

a)
(<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>)”

Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, specifies in section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests
interests do not prevail or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interest
cases that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested
sado be a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2.Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the
treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting more precisely
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

specifies specific treatment requirements and other measures that guarantee treatment
lawful and fair treatment, including other specific treatment situations
under chapter IX.

3. (…)"

Article 9 of the RGPD establishes the following:

1. The processing of personal data that reveals ethnic origin is prohibited
or racial background, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, or affiliation
union, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at identifying
unambiguously to a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to
sexual life or sexual orientations of a natural person.

2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the following circumstances occurs-
following:

a) the interested party gave their explicit consent for the processing of said data
for one or more of the specified purposes, except when the Right of
the Union or the Member States establishes that the prohibition referred to in the
section 1 cannot be lifted by the interested party;

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the exercise of
specific rights of the person in charge of the treatment or of the interested party in the field of
Labor law and security and social protection, to the extent that it is so authorized.
enact the Law of the Union of the Member States or a collective agreement with
under the Law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees of the res-
protection of the fundamental rights and interests of the interested party;

c) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
natural person, in the event that the interested party is not qualified, natural or legal,
cally, to give your consent;

d) the treatment is carried out, within the scope of its legitimate activities and with the de-
guarantees, by a foundation, an association or any other organization without
for profit, whose purpose is political, philosophical, religious or trade union, provided that the
treatment refers exclusively to current or former members of such organizations.
organizations or persons who maintain regular contact with them in relation to
its purposes and provided that the personal data is not communicated outside of them without the
consent of the interested parties;

e) the treatment refers to personal data that the interested party has made manifest-
public mind;

f) the treatment is necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.
tions or when the courts act in the exercise of their judicial function;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

g) the treatment is necessary for reasons of an essential public interest, on the
basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional
the objective pursued, essentially respect the right to data protection and
establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party;

h) the treatment is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, evaluation
of the worker's work capacity, medical diagnosis, provision of assistance or
treatment of a health or social nature, or management of health care systems and services.
health and social care, on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the Member States.
or by virtue of a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions
tions and guarantees contemplated in section 3;

i) the treatment is necessary for reasons of public interest in the field of health
such as protection against serious cross-border threats to health, or
to ensure high levels of quality and safety of healthcare and
of medicines or medical devices, on the basis of Union Law or
of the Member States to establish appropriate and specific measures to pro-
protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party, in particular professional secrecy,

 j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes,
scientific or historical information or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89,
paragraph 1, on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which
must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect essentially the right to
data protection and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.

3. The personal data referred to in section 1 may be processed for the purposes cited-
two in section 2, letter h), when their treatment is carried out by a professional
subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, or under your responsibility, in accordance
with the Law of the Union or of the Member States or with the established rules
by the competent national bodies, or by any other person also subject to
also to the obligation of secrecy in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the States.
two members or of the standards established by the competent national bodies.
you.

4. Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including
ive limitations, with respect to the processing of genetic data, biometric data or
health-related data.

III

Article 4.11 of the RGPD defines the consent of the interested party as "any
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

In this sense, article 6.1 of the RGPD, establishes that “The treatment will only be lawful
if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation
to the data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.”

IV

The Spanish legislator has provided itself with the necessary legal measures to
face situations of health risk, such as Organic Law 3/1986, of 14
April, of Special Measures in the Matter of Public Health (modified by Real
Decree-law 6/2020, of March 10, by which certain measures are adopted
urgent in the economic sphere and for the protection of public health, published in
the Official State Gazette of March 11, 2020) or Law 33/2011, of March 4,
October, General Public Health.

Article 3 of Organic Law 3/1986 states that: “In order to control the
communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out the actions
general preventive measures, may adopt the appropriate measures to control the
sick, the people who are or have been in contact with them and the
immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in the event of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

transmissible risk.”

In the same way, articles 5 and 84 of Law 33/2011, of October 4, General of
Public Health refer to the previous Organic Law 3/1986, and to the possibility of
take additional measures in case of risk of disease transmission.

Therefore, in terms of risk of disease transmission, epidemic, crisis
etc., the applicable regulations have granted "the health authorities of the
different public administrations” (article 1 Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14) the
powers to adopt the necessary measures provided for in said laws when
so required by health reasons of urgency or necessity.

Consequently, from a personal data processing point of view, the
Safeguarding of essential interests in the field of public health corresponds to
the different health authorities of the different public administrations,
who may adopt the necessary measures to safeguard said interests
public health essentials in public health emergency situations (Report
of the AEPD Legal Office N/REF: 0017/2020)

On the other hand, it should be remembered that the sanitary measures adopted by the
health authorities must be subject to judicial ratification, provided for in the
Articles 10.8 and 11.1.i) of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction Law (LJCA), and
cannot be applied by the Administration before the Contentious Chamber
The corresponding administrative is pronounced on the matter.

v

In the present case, the entity claimed when requesting the participants in the race
of San Silvestre, provide the COVID passport or, failing that, present proof
PCR or of antigens done in the 72 hours prior to the race via email, has
processed personal data specially protected in accordance with the
article 9.2 of the RGPD without finding the claimed entity in any of the
assumptions allowed, as indicated in the basis of law II.

In addition, the claimed entity has proceeded to the processing of personal data
lacking legitimacy to do so, thereby violating article 6 of the RGPD, as
as indicated in the foundation of law III.

Thus, this Agency considers that the entity claimed, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, by requiring a PCR or antigen test done within 72 hours
prior to the race via email, has violated two precepts, first
Article 9.2 of the RGPD, when processing specially protected data, without being in
none of the assumptions allowed in said article indicated as an exception, and in
secondly, article 6 of the RGPD, since we are facing a treatment of
personal data without legitimacy that justifies said treatment, in accordance with
data protection regulations.

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

7th

The infringement of article 9 of the RGPD, for which the claimed party is responsible, is
provided for in article 83.5 of the RGPD where it is established that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:
a)
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

In turn, the LOPDGDD in its article 72.1.e) qualifies as a very serious infraction,
purposes of prescription, “The treatment of personal data of the categories to which
referred to in article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 without any of the
the circumstances provided for in said precept and in the article of this Organic Law.”

viii

The violation of article 6 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative”, says:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGDD in its article 72.1.b) qualifies this infraction, for prescription purposes,
as a very serious infringement, “The processing of personal data without the concurrence
any of the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IX

9/14

In order to determine the administrative fines to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-
allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or to certification mechanisms
fication approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”
Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76, “Sanctions and
corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission of the crime.
infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the instruction
of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine sanction to be imposed on LAST
LAP, S.L. as responsible for an infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in
an initial assessment, they are considered concurrent in the present case, as
aggravating factors, the following factors:



Number of stakeholders affected

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of


personal data processing.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against LAST LAP, S.L. with
NIF B80891211, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.i) of the RGPD, by the
alleged infringement of article 9 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
and for prescription purposes, by article 72.1 e) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against LAST LAP, S.L. with
NIF B80891211, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.i) of the RGPD, by the
alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
and for prescription purposes, by article 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD.

THIRD: APPOINT instructor to R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimants and their documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous Inspection actions.

FIFTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond for the infringement of article 9 of the RGPD would be
10,000 euros (ten thousand euros) without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

SIXTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond for the infringement of article 6 of the RGPD would be
6,000 euros (six thousand euros) without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

SEVENTH: NOTIFY this agreement LAST LAP, S.L. with NIF B80891211
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the first sanction
would be established at 8,000 euros, and the second penalty at 4,800 euros
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of this. With the application of this
reduction, the first sanction would be established at 8,000 euros, and the second
sanction in 4,800 euros, and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
established in the first sanction in 6,000 euros (six thousand euros) and the second in
3,600 euros (three thousand six hundred euros)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
previously, 8,000 or 6,000 euros, in the first sanction and 4,800 or 3,600 euros, in the
second sanction, you must make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted. Also, you must send the
proof of admission to the Subdirectorate General for Inspection to continue with the
procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

>>

SECOND: On June 17, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 9600 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202105653, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to LAST LAP, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

