My data, the administration and me

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection gives data
protection guide for citizens

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, July 26, 2019

The data protection reform of 2018 was a good year ago. Most guarantors
citizens have already had their first encounters with the new
data protection law. Bavarian state authorities and municipalities also
often published extensive data protection notices, asked for consent
gen in the processing of personal data or behaved
otherwise different than before - "for data protection reasons", as it was then called.

Data protection is not only a matter for the data protection supervisory authorities. Every
Citizens are called upon when it comes to securing the
own space of freedom in an increasingly digitized world. The
published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
bene book "My data, the administration and I - guide through the
World of the General Data Protection Regulation” is intended to provide the necessary information
impart know-how.

The data protection guide for citizens first leads to
the most important basic structures and terms of data protection law.
The focus is then on the rights of those affected by data protection
basic regulation. These include the right to information,
Correction and deletion as well as the right to object. A look at the
Data protection supervision and the right to complain shows how affected persons
others can defend their data protection rights.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “With the new data protection guide, I would like
I made the somewhat cumbersome topic of 'data protection law' more accessible to everyone
make. The book deliberately focuses on the activities of
Bavarian public authorities. This also applies to the numerous

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from 07/26/2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed

n examples. Interested citizens from other federal
countries or other European countries may differ from the Bavarian
data protection guide but also benefit: After all, the da-
General Data Protection Regulation directly in all member states of the
European Union."

The data protection guide for citizens is free of charge
available. As of today, a PDF version is available on the website of the
Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection https://www.daten-
schutz-bayern.de in the “Data Protection Reform 2018” section for download
ready.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

