                                                              Legal cabinet

N/REF: 0047/2021

The project proposes the processing of facial recognition data in
the moment of registration of clients in the branch or through an online channel with the
objective of verifying your identity and thus carry out the appropriate verifications
provided for in Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering
capital and the financing of terrorism (PBC / FT), as well as the control of
fraud.

The project presented is limited to:

-

Note that the legal basis for consent to the
processing of the data, since it is biometric data, that is,
special categories of data, cannot be an adequate legal basis for
depend on customers consenting to these treatments. And why can
considered that a compulsory consent would not be lawful when conditioning the
provision of services to the granting of consent with the consequence
that said consent would not be free.

-

The proposed alternative to consent is that of
consider as a legal basis for the processing of data without consent
the fulfillment of a mission of public interest, such as the prevention of
money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Being limited the
application of this legal basis exclusively for the purposes indicated and not to
commercial or any other purpose other than fraud control or
AML/FT.

I

Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation of
data protection, RGPD) defines in its article 4.14 the biometric data
as “personal data obtained from a specific technical treatment,
relating to the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a
natural person that allow or confirm the unique identification of said
person, such as facial images or fingerprint data”.

Article 9 of said rule regulates the treatment of categories
special data, among which are biometric data,

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

one

Legal cabinet

establishing a general prohibition of its treatment in the following
terms:

“The processing of personal data that reveals the
racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious convictions or
philosophical, or union affiliation, and the treatment of genetic data, data
biometrics aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person,
data relating to health or data relating to sexual life or sexual orientation
sex of a natural person.

In relation to the processing of facial recognition data, in
our Report 36/2020, analyzing article 9.1 in relation to the
Recital 51 of the RGPD, as well as the Protocol of amendment to the Convention
for the Protection of Individuals regarding data processing
personnel, approved by the Committee of Ministers in its 128th period of
sessions in Elsinore on May 18, 2018 (Convention 108+) we pointed out
that

“In order to clarify the interpretative doubts that arise
regarding the consideration of biometric data as categories
special data can be resorted to the distinction between identification
biometrics and biometric verification/authentication that established the
Article 29 Group in its Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of the
biometric technologies:

 Biometric identification: the identification of an individual by a
biometric system is normally the process of comparing your data
biometrics (acquired at the time of identification) with a series
of biometric templates stored in a database (i.e.,
a one-to-many mapping process).

Biometric verification/authentication: Verification of a biometric
individual by a biometric system is normally the process of
comparison between your biometric data (acquired at the time of
verification) with a single biometric template stored in a
device (i.e., a one-to-one mapping process)
to-one).

This same differentiation is reflected in the White Paper on the

artificial intelligence of the European Commission:

“As far as facial recognition is concerned, by “identification”
it is understood that the template of a person's facial image is
compares with many other templates stored in a database
to find out if your image is stored on it. The
"authentication" (or "verification"), on the other hand, usually refers to
searching for matches between two specific templates.
It allows the comparison of two biometric templates that, in principle,
they are supposed to belong to the same person; Thus, the two templates
compared to determine if the person in the two images is the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

two

Legal cabinet

same. This procedure is used, for example, in the doors of
automated border control used in border controls
of the airports”.

Taking into account the aforementioned distinction, it can be interpreted that,
In accordance with article 4 of the RGPD, the concept of biometric data
would include both assumptions, both identification and
verification/authentication. However, in general, the
biometric data will only be considered as a category
special data in the cases in which they are submitted to treatment
technician aimed at biometric identification (one-to-many) and not in the
case of biometric verification/authentication (one-to-one).

However, this Agency considers that this is a question
complex, subject to interpretation, with respect to which no
draw general conclusions, having to attend to the specific case
according to the data processed, the techniques used for its treatment and
the consequent interference in the right to data protection,
must, as long as the Committee does not rule on the matter
European Data Protection or the jurisdictional bodies,
adopt, in case of doubt, the most favorable interpretation for the
protection of the rights of those affected.”

Consequently, in said report this Agency already highlighted the
difficulty in separating the concepts of identification and authentication, which
requires being to the specific case and the particular techniques used in
relation to the purpose pursued by the treatment, as well as the need
to grant maximum protection to the rights of those affected against the use
of techniques that may be more invasive for your privacy and generate greater
risks to their rights and freedoms.

In the project presented, a data processing
biometrics in order to comply with the duty of identification
established in the regulations on the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism, thus avoiding the possible impersonation of
identity. Therefore, it must be concluded that the recognition process
employee facial involves the processing of biometric data for the purpose of
unambiguously identify a natural person, so it is a treatment of
special categories of data subject to the general rule of prohibition of data
themselves (art. 9.1. RGPD).

This same conclusion was reached by the Agency in the aforementioned report 36/2020,
analyzing a case analogous to the present, in which what was intended was
identification through facial recognition of students who
performed the exams in the online modality, in order to verify their
identity and avoid assumptions of impersonation.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

3

Legal cabinet

However, article 9.2 of the RGPD regulates exceptions to said

general prohibition by establishing that

“Section 1 will not apply when one of the

following circumstances:

to)

the interested party gave his explicit consent for the
processing of such personal data for one or more of the purposes
specified, except when the Law of the Union or of the States
states that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 does not
can be raised by the interested party.

processing is necessary for reasons of interest
essential public, on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the States
members, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect in
essential the right to data protection and establish measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party;

(…)
g)

In relation to section g), it should be noted that when the treatment is
necessary for reasons of public interest, which must be essential on the basis
of the law of the Member States, proportional to the objective pursued,
essentially respect the right to data protection and establish
adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party. It is appropriate, therefore, to analyze whether, in the
present case, the budgets established in article 9.2.g) concur.
to lift the ban on the processing of biometric data.

II

This Agency has had occasion to pronounce itself, on various occasions,
Regarding the requirements established by article 9.2.g) of the RGPD to
be able to protect the processing of personal data based on the
facial recognition, given the proliferation of proposals received in relation to
with them from different areas, which shows the interest
increasing use of these systems and the constant concern of this
control authority, as they are very intrusive identification systems
for the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons.
This concern is shared by the rest of the control authorities since
years ago, as the Working Document on
biometrics, adopted on August 1, 2003 by the Group of 29, or the subsequent
Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies, adopted on
April 27, 2012, and which has led the community legislator himself
include this data among the special categories of data in the GDPR. From
In this way, its treatment being prohibited in general, any
exception to said prohibition shall be subject to a restrictive interpretation.
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

4

Legal cabinet

In this regard, it should be noted, in addition to the aforementioned report 36/2020,
referring to the use of facial recognition techniques in carrying out
online assessment tests, report 31/2019 on the incorporation of
facial recognition systems in video surveillance services under protection
of article 42 of the Private Security Law or Report 97/2020 regarding the
Draft Order of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Transformation
Digital on non-face-to-face identification methods for the issuance of
Qualified electronic certificates. In all these cases it was concluded that
there was a legal norm in the Spanish legal system that met the
requirements of article 9.2.g) of the RGPD, so that the treatment only
could rely on the consent of those affected as long as it was
guaranteed that it is free.

Analyzing the requirements of article 9.2.g) in our Report 36/2020

we noted the following:

v

The next question that arises in the consultation is whether the treatment
of biometric data by facial recognition systems in
online evaluation processes could rely on the existence of a
Essential public interest in accordance with article 9.2.g) of the RGPD:

g) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest
essential, on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the States
members, which must be proportional to the objective pursued,
essentially respect the right to data protection and
establish adequate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.

As we pointed out earlier, the data processing
personnel necessary for the provision of the public service of
higher education is legitimated, in general, in the existence of
a public interest under the provisions of article 6.1.e) of the
GDPR. However, in the case of special categories of data, the
assumption referred to in letter g) of article 9.2. does not refer only to
the existence of a public interest, as it does in many other
its precepts the RGPD, but it is the only precept of the RGPD that
requires that it be "essential", an adjective that comes to qualify
this public interest, taking into account the importance and necessity of
greater protection of the processed data.

Said precept finds its precedent in article 8.4 of the Directive
95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24,
1995, relative to the protection of natural persons with regard to the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

5

Legal cabinet

processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data:
"4. Provided they have adequate guarantees, the States
Members may, for reasons of important public interest, establish
other exceptions, in addition to those provided for in section 2, either
through its national legislation, either by decision of the
control". However, its reading results in a greater rigor in the new
regulation by the RGPD, since the adjective "important" is replaced by
“essential” and it is not allowed that the exception can be established by the
control authorities.

In relation to what should be understood as public interest
essential, the jurisprudence of the
European Court of Human Rights, which under article 8
of the European Convention on Human Rights, has been considering that
the processing of personal data constitutes a lawful interference in the
right to respect for private life and can only be carried out if
performs in accordance with the law, serves a legitimate purpose, respects the
essence of fundamental rights and freedoms and it is necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to achieve an end
legitimate ( D.L. against Bulgaria, no. 7472/14, May 19, 2016,
Dragojević v. Croatia, #68955/11, 15 January 2015, Peck
v. United Kingdom, No. 44647/98, January 28, 2003, Leander v.
Sweden, No. 9248/81, March 26, 1987, among others). as pointed out
In the last sentence cited, "the concept of necessity implies that the
interference responds to a pressing social need and, in particular,
that it is proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued”.

Likewise, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court must be taken into account
regarding restrictions on the fundamental right to protection of
data, which it synthesizes in its sentence 292/2000, of November 30, in
the one that after configuring the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data as an autonomous and independent right that
consists of a power of disposition and control over data
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which
this third party collect, and that also allows the individual to know who
owns that personal data and for what, being able to oppose that
possession or use, analyzes its limits, pointing out the following:

More specifically, in the aforementioned Judgments regarding the
data protection, this Court has declared that the right to
data protection is not unlimited, and although the Constitution does not
expressly impose specific limits, or refer to the
Public Powers for its determination as it has done with
other fundamental rights, there is no doubt that they must
find them in the remaining fundamental rights and goods
constitutionally protected legal rights, as required by the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

6

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

principle of unity of the Constitution (SSTC 11/1981, of 8
April, F. 7; 196/1987, of December 11 [RTC 1987, 196], F. 6; Y
regarding art. 18, the STC 110/1984, F. 5). Those limits or
may be direct restrictions on the fundamental right
itself, to which it has been alluded before, or they can be
restrictions on the manner, time or place of exercise of the right
fundamental. In the first case, regulating these limits is a way
development of the fundamental right. In the second, the limits
that are fixed are to the concrete form in which it is possible to exercise the
bundle of faculties that make up the content of the right
in question, constituting a way of regulating its
exercise, what the ordinary legislator can do in accordance with what
provided in art. 53.1 CE. The first observation that must
done, which is no less capital because it is obvious, is that the
Constitution has wanted the Law, and only the Law, to be able to set the
limits to a fundamental right. fundamental rights
they can cede, of course, before goods, and even interests
constitutionally relevant, provided that the cut that
experiment is necessary to achieve the intended legitimate purpose,
proportionate to achieve it and, in any case, be respectful
with the essential content of the restricted fundamental right
(SSTC 57/1994, of February 28 [RTC 1994, 57], F. 6; 18/1999,
of February 22 [ RTC 1999, 18] , F. 2).

Precisely, if the Law is the only one authorized by the Constitution
to set limits on fundamental rights and, in the case
present, to the fundamental right to data protection, and those
limits cannot be different from those constitutionally
foreseen, which in this case are none other than those derived from the
coexistence of this fundamental right with other rights and
legal goods of constitutional rank, legal empowerment
that allows a Public Power to collect, store, treat, use and,
where appropriate, transferring personal data is only justified if
responds to the protection of other fundamental rights or
constitutionally protected assets. Therefore, if those
Operations with a person's personal data are not
carried out in strict compliance with the rules that regulate it,
violates the right to data protection, since they are imposed
constitutionally illegitimate limits, either to its content or to the
exercise of the bundle of faculties that compose it. as it
will also violate that limiting Law if it regulates the limits of
in such a way as to make the fundamental right impracticable
affected or ineffective the guarantee that the Constitution grants. And so
will be when the Law, which must regulate the limits to the rights
principles with scrupulous respect for their essential content,
is limited to empowering another Public Power to set in each case
the restrictions that may be imposed on the rights
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

7

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

fundamental, whose singular determination and application will be at the
albur of the decisions adopted by that Public Power, who
will be able to decide, in what interests us now, on obtaining,
storage, processing, use and transfer of personal data
in the cases it deems convenient and wielding, even,
interests or assets that are not protected with constitutional status
[...]”. (Legal Basis 11)

  

“On the one hand, because although this Court has declared that the
Constitution does not prevent the State from protecting rights or property
legal rights at the cost of the sacrifice of others equally recognized and,
therefore, that the legislator may impose limitations on the
content of fundamental rights or their exercise,
We have also specified that, in such cases, these
limitations must be justified in the protection of other
constitutional rights or assets (SSTC 104/2000, of 13
April [ RTC 2000, 104] , F. 8 and those cited there) and, in addition, they must
be proportionate to the purpose pursued with them (SSTC 11/1981, F.
5, and 196/1987, F. 6). For otherwise they would incur the
arbitrariness proscribed by art. 9.3 EC.
On the other hand, even having a constitutional basis and
the limitations of the right being proportionate
established by a Law (STC 178/1985 [RTC
1985, 178] ), they can violate the Constitution if they suffer from
lack of certainty and predictability in the very limits they impose
and its mode of application. Conclusion that is corroborated in the
jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights that
has been cited in F. 8 and that here must be considered as reproduced.
And it should also be pointed out that it would not only harm the principle
of legal certainty (art. 9.3 CE), conceived as certainty about
the applicable law and reasonably founded expectation
of the person on what should be the action of the power
applying the Law (STC 104/2000, F. 7, for all), but by
At the same time, said Law would be injuring the essential content
of the fundamental right thus restricted, given that the way in
that its limits have been set make it unrecognizable and
make it impossible, in practice, to exercise them (SSTC 11/1981, F. 15;
142/1993, of April 22 [RTC 1993, 142], F. 4, and 341/1993, of
November 18 [RTC 1993, 341], F. 7). Luckily the lack
of precision of the Law in the material budgets of the
limitation of a fundamental right is likely to generate
an indeterminacy about the cases to which such application applies.
restriction. And by producing this result, beyond all
reasonable interpretation, the Law no longer fulfills its function of
guarantee of the very fundamental right that restricts, since it leaves
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

8

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

that instead operate simply the will of the one who has to
enforce it, thus undermining both the effectiveness of the right
as fundamental as legal certainty [...]”. (FJ15).

“More specifically, in relation to the fundamental right to
privacy we have emphasized not only the need for
its possible limitations are based on a legal provision
that have constitutional justification and that are proportionate
(SSTC 110/1984, F. 3, and 254/1993, F. 7) but the Law that
restrict this right must accurately state each and every
one of the material budgets of the limiting measure. From
If this is not the case, it is difficult to understand that the judicial decision or the act
administrative authority that applies it are founded on the Law, since
what she has done, abandoning her duties, is
empower other Public Powers so that they are the ones
set the limits to the fundamental right (SSTC 37/1989, of 15
February [ RTC 1989, 37], and 49/1999, of April 5 [ RTC 1999,
49]).
Similarly, regarding the right to data protection
personal it can be estimated that the constitutional legitimacy of the
restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself, on
the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it enough that the
Law empowers it to specify in each case its limits,
limiting itself to indicating that it must make such precision when
any constitutionally protected right or asset concurs. Is
the legislator who must determine when that good or
right that justifies the restriction of the right to protection of
personal data and under what circumstances it can be limited and,
furthermore, it is he who must do it by means of precise rules that
make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party.
consequences. For otherwise the legislator would have moved
to the Administration the performance of a function that only he
competent in terms of fundamental rights by virtue of the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the
limit and its regulation. […] (FJ 16)”.

Likewise, our Constitutional Court has already had the opportunity to
pronounce specifically on article 9.2.g) of the RGPD, as
consequence of the challenge of article 58 bis of the Organic Law
5/1985, of June 19, of the General Electoral Regime, introduced by the
third final provision of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights,
regarding the legitimacy of the collection of personal data relating to
to the political opinions of the people who carry out the parties
politicians within the framework of their electoral activities, a precept that was
declared unconstitutional by Judgment no. 76/2019 of May 22.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

9

Legal cabinet

Said sentence analyzes, in the first place, the legal regime
that is subject to the treatment of special categories
of data in the RGPD:

In accordance with section 1 of art. 9 GDPR, it is prohibited to
processing of personal data revealing opinions
policies, in the same way that data processing is
revealing racial or ethnic origin, religious convictions
religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership and the treatment of
genetic data, biometric data aimed at identifying
unambiguously to a natural person, data related to health or
data relating to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a
Physical person. However, section 2 of the same precept
authorizes the treatment of all these data when it concurs
any of the ten circumstances provided therein [letters a) to j)].
Some of those circumstances have a scope
limited (labour, social, associative, health, judicial, etc.) or
respond to a specific purpose, so that, in themselves,
define the specific treatments that they authorize as
exception to the general rule. Furthermore, the enabling efficacy of
several of the assumptions foreseen there is conditioned to the fact that the
The law of the Union or that of the Member States provides for them and
expressly regulate in their field of competence: this is the case
of the circumstances listed in letters a), b), g), h), i) and j).
Treatment of special categories of personal data
is one of the areas in which expressly the
General Data Protection Regulation has recognized the
Member States "room for manoeuvre" when it comes to
"specify its rules", as its recital 10 qualifies it.
This margin of legislative configuration extends both to
the determination of the enabling causes for the
processing of specially protected personal data
-that is, to the identification of public interest purposes
essential and the appreciation of the proportionality of the
treatment to the end pursued, essentially respecting the
right to data protection - such as the establishment of
"appropriate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the interested party" [art. 9.2
g) GDPR]. The Regulation therefore contains an obligation
of the Member States to establish such
guarantees, in the event that they enable to process the data
specially protected personnel.

In relation to the first of the requirements demanded by article
9.2.g), the invocation of an essential public interest and the necessary
specification thereof, the High Court recalls what was stated in its
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

10

Legal cabinet

judgment 292/2000 in which it was rejected that the identification of the
legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through concepts
generic or vague formulas, considering that the restriction of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data cannot be based,
by itself, in the generic invocation of an indeterminate "interest
public" :

In the aforementioned STC 292/2000 (RTC 2000, 292), in which
legislative interference in the right to
protection of personal data, we reject that the identification
of the legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through
generic concepts or vague formulas:
"16. [...] Similarly, with respect to the right to protection of
personal data it can be estimated that the constitutional legitimacy of
the restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself,
in the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it enough that
the Law empowers it to specify in each case its limits,
limiting itself to indicating that it must make such precision when
any constitutionally protected right or asset concurs. Is
the legislator who must determine when that good or
right that justifies the restriction of the right to protection of
personal data and under what circumstances it can be limited and,
furthermore, it is he who must do it by means of precise rules that
make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party.
consequences. For otherwise the legislator would have moved
to the Administration the performance of a function that only he
competent in terms of fundamental rights by virtue of the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the
limit and its regulation.
17. In the present case, employment by the LOPD (RCL 2018, 1629)
in your art. 24.1 of the expression "control functions and
verification", opens up a space of uncertainty so wide that
provokes a double and perverse consequence. On one side, to
enable the LOPD to the Administration to restrict rights
fundamental principles by invoking such an expression is renouncing
to set the limits itself, empowering the Administration to
do it. And in such a way that, as the Defender of the
Town, allows to redirect to the same practically all
administrative activity, since all administrative activity that
involves establishing a legal relationship with a company, which
This will be the case in practically all cases in which the
Administration needs someone's personal data,
will ordinarily entail the power of the Administration of
verify and control that the administrator has acted in accordance with the
administrative legal regime of the legal relationship established
with the Administration. What, in view of the reason for restriction
of the right to be informed of art. 5 LOPD, leave in the most
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

eleven

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

absolute uncertainty to the citizen about in which cases
that circumstance will occur (if not in all) and add to the
inefficiency any jurisdictional protection mechanism that must
prosecute such a case of restriction of rights
without any other complementary criterion that comes in
help of its control of administrative action in this
matter.
The same reproaches also deserve the use in art. 24.2
LOPD of the expression "public interest" as the basis of the
imposition of limits to the fundamental rights of art. 18.1 and
4 CE, since it contains an even greater degree of uncertainty. Enough
note that all administrative activity, ultimately,
pursues the safeguarding of general interests, whose
achievement constitutes the purpose to which it must serve with
objectivity the Administration in accordance with art. 103.1 CE."
This argument is fully transferable to the present.
prosecution. Likewise, therefore, we must conclude that the
constitutional legitimacy of the restriction of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data cannot be
based, by itself, on the generic invocation of a
unspecified "public interest". For otherwise the legislator
would have moved the political parties - to whom the provision
challenged authorizes to collect personal data related to the
political views of people within the framework of their
electoral activities - the performance of a function that only
he is responsible for fundamental rights under the
Law reservation of art. 53.1 EC, that is, clearly establish
its limits and regulation.
Nor can we accept, because it is equally imprecise, the purpose
adduced by the State attorney, which refers to the
functioning of the democratic system, since it also contains
a high degree of uncertainty and may involve a
circular reasoning. On the one hand, political parties are
itself "channels necessary for the operation of the system
democratic" (for all, STC 48/2003, of March 12 (RTC
2003, 48), FJ 5); and, on the other hand, the entire operation of the
democratic system ultimately seeks to safeguard
of the purposes, values and constitutional goods, but this does not
manages to identify the reason why the
affected fundamental right.
Finally, it should be specified that it is not necessary to be able to
suspect, with greater or lesser grounds, that the restriction
pursues an unconstitutional purpose, or that the data that is
collect and process will be harmful to the private sphere and the
exercise of the rights of individuals. It is enough with
note that, since it was not possible to identify with sufficient precision
the purpose of the data processing, nor can the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

12

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

constitutionally legitimate nature of that purpose, nor, in its
case, the proportionality of the planned measure in accordance with
the principles of suitability, necessity and proportionality in
Strict sense.

On the other hand, regarding the guarantees that the legislator must adopt,
the aforementioned ruling no. 76/2019 of May 22, after recalling that
“In view of the potential intrusive effects on the right
fundamentally affected resulting from the processing of personal data,
the jurisprudence of this Court requires the legislator that, in addition to
meet the above requirements, also set
adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational and procedural nature, which
prevent risks of varying probability and severity and mitigate their
effects, because only in this way can we ensure respect for the content
essence of the fundamental right itself”, analyzes what is the norm that
must contain the aforementioned guarantees:

“Therefore, the resolution of this challenge requires that
Let us clarify a doubt that has arisen regarding the scope of our
doctrine of adequate safeguards, which consists of
determine whether adequate safeguards against the use of the
computing must be contained in the law itself that authorizes and
regulates that use or can also be found in other sources
regulations.
The question can only have a constitutional answer. The
Provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a
time after the legal regulation of data processing
personal in question. Adequate collateral must be
incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing, whether
directly or by express and perfectly delimited reference to
external sources that have the appropriate regulatory status. Only
This understanding is compatible with the double requirement that
stems from art. 53.1 CE (RCL 1978, 2836) for the legislator of
fundamental rights: the reservation of law for regulation
of the exercise of the fundamental rights recognized in the
second chapter of the first title of the Constitution and respect
of the essential content of said fundamental rights.
According to reiterated constitutional doctrine, the reservation of law is not
limits itself to requiring that a law authorizes the restrictive measure of
fundamental rights, but it is also necessary, according to
both to demands called -sometimes- of
normative predetermination and -others- of quality of the law as well as
respect for the essential content of the law, which in this regulation
the legislator, who is primarily obliged to weigh the
conflicting rights or interests, predetermine the assumptions, the
conditions and guarantees in which the adoption of
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

13

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

restrictive measures of fundamental rights. That mandate of
predetermination regarding essential elements, linked
also ultimately to the judgment of proportionality of the
limitation of the fundamental right, cannot be deferred to
further legal or regulatory development, nor can it be
leave in the hands of the individuals themselves” (FJ 8).

Consequently, the processing of biometric data under the
Article 9.2.g) requires that it be provided for in a rule of law
European or national, in the latter case having to have said
norm, according to the cited constitutional doctrine and the provisions of the
Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD, range of law. This law must also
specify the essential public interest that justifies the restriction of the
right to the protection of personal data and in what
circumstances can be limited, establishing the precise rules
that make the imposition of such limitation foreseeable to the interested party and
its consequences, without it being sufficient, for these purposes, the
generic invocation of a public interest. And this law must
establish, in addition, the adequate guarantees of a technical nature,
organizational and procedural, that prevent the risks of different
likelihood and severity and mitigate their effects.

In addition, said law must respect in all cases the principle of
proportionality, as recalled in the Judgment of the Court
Constitutional 14/2003, of January 28:

In other words, in accordance with a long-standing doctrine of
this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure
of fundamental rights is determined by the strict
observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that
matter here it suffices to remember that, to check whether a
restrictive measure of a fundamental right exceeds the judgment of
proportionality, it is necessary to verify if it meets the three
following requirements or conditions: if the measure is susceptible to
achieve the proposed objective (judgment of suitability); Yes, besides,
is necessary, in the sense that there is no other measure
moderate for the achievement of such purpose with equal effectiveness
(judgment of necessity); and, finally, if it is weighted or
balanced, because it derives more benefits or advantages for
the general interest that harms other goods or values in
conflict (judgment of proportionality in the strict sense; SSTC
66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of 28 of
March [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8 and 9; 270/1996, dated 16
December [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [
RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000,
186], F. 6).”

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

14

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

Legal cabinet

In the present case, said treatment intends to be covered by the
obligation of identification imposed on obligated subjects by article 3 of
Law 10/2010 of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and the
terrorist financing:

Article 3. Formal identification.

1. The regulated entities will identify how many individuals or
legal entities intend to establish business relationships or intervene in
any operations.

In no case will the obligated subjects maintain relations of
business or carry out operations with individuals or legal entities that are not
have been properly identified. In particular, it is prohibited
opening, hiring or maintenance of accounts, savings books,
safe deposit boxes, numbered assets or instruments, encrypted,
anonymous or with fictitious names.

2. Prior to the establishment of the relationship of
business or the execution of any operations, the subjects
obliged will verify the identity of the participants by means of
reliable documents. In the event of not being able to verify the
identity of the interveners through reliable documents in a
first moment, it will be possible to contemplate what is established in article 12,
unless there are elements of risk in the operation.

Regulations will establish the documents that must

be deemed reliable for identification purposes.

3. In the field of life insurance, verification of the identity of the
policyholder must be made prior to the celebration of the
contract. Verification of the identity of the beneficiary of the insurance
life must be carried out in any case prior to the payment of the
benefit derived from the contract or the exercise of the rights of
redemption, advance or pledge conferred by the policy.

As can be seen, the aforementioned precept establishes an obligation to
identification, also establishing the way in which to proceed to
the same: "through reliable documents", referring to the regulations
regulation in order to determine "the documents that must be considered
irrefutable”.

In this regard, Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, which
approves the Regulation of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

fifteen

money laundering and financing of terrorism, determines these
documents in its article 6:

                                                              Legal cabinet

Article 6. Reliable documents for identification purposes

formal.

1. Reliable documents will be considered, for the purposes of

formal identification, the following:

a) For natural persons of Spanish nationality, the

National identity document.

For natural persons of foreign nationality, the Card of
Residence, the Foreigner Identity Card, the Passport or, in the
case of citizens of the European Union or the Economic Area
European, the document, letter or official personal identity card
issued by the authorities of origin. It will also be a document
valid for the identification of foreigners the identity document
issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation for
the personnel of the diplomatic and consular representations of
third countries in Spain.

Exceptionally, the obligated subjects may accept other
personal identity documents issued by an authority
provided that they enjoy adequate guarantees of
authenticity and include a photograph of the owner.

b) For legal persons, the public documents that
prove their existence and contain their company name, form
legal entity, domicile, the identity of its administrators, statutes and
tax identification number.

In the case of legal entities of Spanish nationality, it will be
admissible, for purposes of formal identification, certification of the Registry
Provincial commercial, provided by the client or obtained through consultation
telematics.

2. In cases of legal or voluntary representation, the identity
of the representative and the person or entity represented, will be
documented proof. For these purposes, a copy must be obtained
of the reliable document referred to in the preceding paragraph
corresponding to both the representative and the person or entity
represented, as well as the public document accrediting the powers
conferred. Verification by certification of the
Provincial Mercantile Registry, provided by the client, or obtained
by telematic consultation.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

16

Legal cabinet

3. The regulated entities will identify and verify through
authentic documents the identity of all the participants of the
entities without legal personality. However, in the event of
entities without legal personality that do not carry out activities
In general, it will suffice to identify and
Verification by reliable documents of the identity of the
person acting on behalf of the entity.

In the case of investment funds, the obligation to
identification and verification of the identity of the participants
will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 40.3 of Law 35/2003,
of November 4, Collective Investment Institutions.

In Anglo-Saxon trusts ("trusts") or other instruments
analogous legal entities that, despite lacking legal personality,
can act in economic traffic, the obligated subjects will require
the constitutive document, without prejudice to proceeding to the identification and
verification of the identity of the person acting on behalf of the
beneficiaries or in accordance with the terms of the trust, or
legal instrument. For these purposes, the trustees will communicate their
condition to obligated subjects when, as such, they intend to
establish business relationships or intervene in any
operations. In those cases in which a trustee does not declare
his condition as such and this circumstance is determined by the subject
obliged, the business relationship will be terminated, proceeding to carry out
the special examination referred to in article 17 of Law 10/2010, of
28th of April.

4. The identification documents must be in force
at the time of establishing business relationships or executing
occasional operations. In the case of legal persons, the
validity of the data consigned in the documentation provided must
accredited by a responsible declaration of the client.

On the other hand, article 13 provides for other means of identification, without
detriment of the fact that they must also obtain the corresponding
reliable documents:

Article 12. Business relationships and non-face-to-face operations.
1. The regulated entities may establish business relationships
or execute operations through telephone, electronic or
telematics with clients who are not physically present,
provided that any of the following circumstances occur:

a) The identity of the client is accredited by means of the signature
qualified electronic regulated in Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 of the
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

17

Legal cabinet

European Parliament and of the Council, of July 23, 2014, regarding the
electronic identification and trust services for
electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing
Directive 1999/93/EC. In this case it will not be necessary to obtain
the copy of the document, although the conservation of the
identification data justifying the validity of the procedure.

b) The first income comes from an account in the same name
open client in an entity domiciled in Spain, in the Union
European or equivalent third countries.

c) are verified

regulations.

the requirements determined

In any case, within a period of one month from the establishment of
the business relationship, the regulated entities must obtain from these
clients a copy of the documents necessary to practice the
due dilegence.

When there are discrepancies between the data provided by
the client and other information accessible or in the possession of the obligated subject,
It will be mandatory to proceed to face-to-face identification.

The regulated entities will adopt additional measures of
due diligence when in the course of the business relationship they appreciate
risks higher than the average risk.

2. The regulated entities will establish policies and procedures
to deal with the specific risks associated with relationships of
non-face-to-face business and operations.

However, the use of these means is conditioned to the possible
risk of the operation, as stated in article 3 of the LPBCFT.
Precisely, risk assessment is a central element in the regulations
on prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism.

Of the transcribed regulation, which is a transposition of the regulations
community, it can easily be inferred that it does not meet the
requirements established in article 9.2.g), since the legislator has not foreseen
the use of biometric data as a proportional measure for the
identification of natural persons, establishing the specific guarantees and
that derive from the greater risks involved in the treatment of
said data.

Therefore, intending in the project the processing of data
personal information included in the special categories of data referred to
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

18

Legal cabinet

article 9.1. of the RGPD, since it is biometric data aimed at
the identification of natural persons, it is a prerequisite that some
of the circumstances contemplated in its section 2 that lifts the prohibition
of treatment of said data, established in general in its
section 1, requiring article 9.2. of the LOPDGDD that “The treatment of
data referred to in letters g), h) and i) of article 9.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 founded on Spanish law must be covered by a
norm with the force of law, which may establish additional requirements related to
its security and confidentiality. not existing, as has been indicated, norm
legal that enables said treatment under article 9.2.g) of the RGPD.

 Therefore, said prohibition can only be lifted in those
cases in which the affected party gives his express consent, under the
letter a) of article 9.2. of the RGPD, and all other parties must attend
requirements to grant a valid consent that are included in the definition
of article 4.11 of the RGPD: “any manifestation of free will, specific,
informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data
that concern him”.

III

Although the absence of cause that lifts the prohibition of treatment
of special categories of data determines, by itself, the illegality of the
proposed treatment, it should be noted that there is also no legal basis
to legitimize it under article 6.1. of the GDPR on the basis of
public interest.

The concept of public interest, or the general interest, which is more
frequently used by our constitutional text, is a concept
indeterminate legal system with a dual function: to provide legitimizing cover for the
action of the Administration and, on the other hand, constitutes one of the forms
to limit administrative powers. In this way, the public interest that,
As Parejo Alfonso points out, it has a clear management role in development
normative (parliamentary or not) of the constitutional order, acts as a criterion
delimiter of the action of the public powers, for which it must, in the first place,
term, be identified by the legislator, in order to identify the scope in which
that the action of the Administration will be developed, subject to the
of legality and to which it corresponds to serve objectively the interests
general (article 103.CE) and, in any case, under the control of the courts, since
that, as recalled by the Judgment of the Constitutional Court of June 11,
1984, “It cannot be ignored that the power attributed by the Constitution to the
State to define the general interest, open and indeterminate concept
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

19

called to be applied to the respective subjects, can be controlled, compared to
to possible abuses and a posteriori, by this Court…”.

                                                              Legal cabinet

In the first place, it must be assumed that the existence of an interest
public, which undoubtedly exists in the field of money laundering prevention
capital and the financing of terrorism, does not legitimize any type of
treatment of personal data, but must be, in the first place, to
the conditions that the legislator may have established, as provided by the
own article 6 of the RGPD, in its sections 2 and 3, and article 8 of the Law
organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD) that regulates data processing
based on a legal obligation and on a mission carried out in the public interest or
exercises of public interests in its article 8, in the following terms:

"one. The processing of personal data can only be considered founded
in compliance with a legal obligation required of the controller, in
the terms provided in article 6.1.c) of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, when so provided for by a rule of Union Law
European Union or a standard with the force of law, which may determine the
general conditions of the treatment and the types of data object of the treatment
same as well as the transfers that proceed as a result of the
compliance with the legal obligation. This rule may also
impose special conditions on treatment, such as adoption
of additional security measures or others established in the chapter
IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The processing of personal data can only be considered founded
in the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of public powers conferred on the controller, in the terms
provided for in article 6.1 e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when
derives from a competence attributed by a norm with the force of law.”

Therefore, the public interest requires, in the first place,
specification by the legislator, taking into account all the
interests affected, in order to determine the restrictions that may be
private interests as a result of the presence of such
general interests, which must be done through a regulation with a range of
law.

In the present case, on the basis of public interest, it would not be
application of the legal basis of article 6.1.e) of the RGPD to the extent that
Law 10/2010 does not attribute powers, which are specific to the
Public Administrations, to financial entities as obligated subjects
to compliance with said rule.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

twenty

Legal cabinet

On the other hand, from the analysis of the justifications provided by the
promoter of the project, referring to alleged identity theft, not
it can be inferred that they refer specifically to the public interest
pursued by the regulations on the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism, but rather to cases of fraud to the detriment of
the entity itself, responding to a private interest of the same, which does not
would be admissible, as you recall, in another case of application of
facial recognition, Order 72/2021 of the Ninth Section of the Hearing
Provincial of Barcelona of February 15, 2021:

 “The level of intrusion into the private life of the interested parties must
enter into the already mentioned trial of proportionality, which according to the
regulations therefore require the expression of the explicit consent of
the interested. If this consent is not explicitly obtained and
not be collected by test methods such as a support
writing, as is the case in this recognition treatment
facial, this must be corrected with the support of another base of
legitimacy strong enough to justify the
necessity of this treatment to obtain the desired ends, such as
can be the maintenance of the proper functioning of the business and the
prevention against robberies, thefts and situations of insecurity for
company workers. This basis of legitimation ensures
Mercadona, through its request, is the "public interest" that is collected
in the same way as exceptional legitimation in the regulations of
personal data protection. However, this creates doubts when
to interpret its validity or lack thereof in this case, by serving
really the implantation of this technology in a greater way to a
of the company, such as guaranteeing the safety of its
facilities."

IV

What Law 10/2010 does establish, for reasons of public interest, are
obligations to said obligated subjects, being the legal basis applicable to the
same not the one foreseen in letter e) of article 6.1. of the GDPR, but the
referred to in letter c), as indicated in the Report of this Agency
195/2017:

  “As is known, Law 10/2010 and its Development Regulation,
approved by Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, impose on the
obligated subjects certain due diligence measures. The
A clearer enumeration of such measures appears in the article
13.1 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of May 20, 2015 on the prevention of the use
of the financial system for money laundering or the financing of
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

twenty-one

Legal cabinet

terrorism, and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the
European Parliament and of the Council, repealing the Directive
2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive
2006/70/CE of the Commission, when it establishes that:

“Customer due diligence measures shall include
the following actions:

a) the identification of the client and the verification of his identity on the
based on documents, data or information obtained from reliable sources
and independent;

b) the identification of the beneficial owner and the adoption of reasonable measures
to verify your identity, so that the obliged entity has the
assurance that you know who the beneficial owner is; also, in what
regarding legal persons, trusts, companies, foundations
and similar legal structures, the adoption of reasonable measures to
in order to understand the ownership and control structure of the client;

c) the evaluation and, where appropriate, the obtaining of information on the
purpose and intended nature of the business relationship;

d) the application of continuous monitoring measures of the relationship of
business, in particular by scrutinizing transactions
carried out throughout said relationship, in order to guarantee that
adjust to the knowledge that the obligated entity has of the client and its
business and risk profile, including, where necessary, the origin
of the funds, and the adoption of measures to guarantee that the
documents, data or information available are
updated.

When the obliged entities adopt the measures mentioned in
letters a) and b) of the first paragraph, will also verify that any
person claiming to act on behalf of the client is authorized to do so and
will identify and verify the identity of said person.”

The measures are detailed in Chapter II of Law 10/2010 and in the
Chapter II of its Development Regulation, consisting of the same
the obligation to collect information from the clients themselves or from third parties
sources where such information may be available. sayings
obligations are clearly imposed in the
legal text, specifically providing for in certain cases the
obligation to consult available sources, as in the case of
people with public relevance (article 15). Similarly, the
Article 8 of the Law refers to the application by third parties of these
obligations.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

22

Legal cabinet

In this way, the money laundering prevention legislation
imposes on obligated subjects, in a clear, precise and unconditional manner,
a series of legal obligations to obtain information, either
directly from customers, or from third parties when it is expected. It
would imply that the treatment of the data, as well as the transfer of the
same when it refers to obtaining the information of said
sources, and even obtaining data from other entities
belonging to the same Group, would be protected, provided that
is proportional to compliance with legal obligations
imposed, by article 6.1 c) of the General Protection Regulation
of data, which enables the treatment of the same when it is
necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation imposed on the
responsible for the treatment.”

Therefore, these legal obligations must be fulfilled in the
terms that the law that imposes them establishes that, for the purposes of this
report, refers to the identification by reliable documents, being said
document, for Spanish citizens, the National Document of
Identity, regarding which article 8 of the Organic Law 4/2015, of 30 of
March, of measures for the protection of citizen security establishes,
under the heading "Obligations and rights of the holder of the National Document of
Identity” the following:

"one. Spaniards have the right to be issued the Document
National Identity.

The National Identity Document is a public and official document and
will have the protection granted to them by law. It's the only one
document with sufficient value by itself for accreditation, to all
the effects, identity and personal data of its owner.

2. In the National Identity Document will appear the photograph and the
signature of its owner, as well as the personal data determined
regulations, which will respect the right to privacy of the
person, without in any case being related to race, ethnicity,
religion, beliefs, opinion, ideology, disability, orientation or
sexual identity, or political or union affiliation. The support card
National Identity Document will incorporate security measures
necessary to achieve quality conditions and
inalterability and maximum guarantees to prevent counterfeiting.

3. The National Identity Document allows older Spaniards
of age who enjoy full capacity to act and minors
emancipated the electronic identification of its holder, as well as the signature
electronic documents, in the terms provided in the legislation
specific. Persons with judicially modified capacity may
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

23

Legal cabinet

exercise these powers when expressly requested by the interested party and
does not specify, according to the judicial resolution that complements its
capacity, representation or assistance of an institution of
protection and support to bind or contract.
The certification service provider will proceed to revoke the
electronic signature certificate at the request of the Ministry of the Interior, after
receive the communication from the person in charge of the Civil Registry of the
registration of the judicial resolution that determines the need for
complement of the capacity to bind or contract, of the
death or the declaration of absence or death of a
person."

Therefore, the DNI proves by itself and for all purposes the identity

and the personal data of its owner.

In this way, imposing mandatory identification through
facial recognition would not comply with the provisions of current regulations,
in addition to being disproportionate, as will be analyzed later.

v

Lastly, and without prejudice to the aforementioned, they should
respect the other principles of article 5 of the RGPD, especially to the
purpose limitation and data minimization.

Especially, in relation to the data minimization principle,
which requires that they be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in
relation to the purposes for which they are processed” (article 5.1.c) of the RGPD) there is
It should be noted that in a highly banked society, the proposal of the
processing of facial recognition data provided for in the project will involve
large-scale processing of special categories of data subject to a
reinforced guarantee regime. This is so due to the high volume of customers
of the banking entities that operate in Spain, as well as because
this treatment should be generalized to all financial institutions
or other subjects bound by the PBC/FT Law.

In addition, this massive data processing will mostly affect
customers with respect to which the specific measures of
diligence provided for in said rule, by applying it indiscriminately to all
customers or potential customers regardless of the existing risk.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

24

Legal cabinet

 Likewise, it would be ignoring the provisions of article 8 of the
Organic Law 4/2015, which, as we have seen, highlights the reference that the
DNI is the public and official document with sufficient value by itself for the
accreditation of the identity and personal data of its owner, of what is
It follows that not even the State Security Forces and Bodies
have large-scale data-based identifying information
facial recognition biometrics contemplated in the project.

On the other hand, the proposed system would not meet the requirements of
proportionality required by the Constitutional Court, since, although it may
considered suitable for the proposed purpose, it is not necessary,
less intrusive alternative measures exist, nor is it strictly proportional,
to the extent that more benefits are derived for the public interest than
damages on other assets or values in conflict, taking into account that
intends its massive and indiscriminate application for all customers of the
obligated subject, and that in case of generalization it would imply a treatment
mass of special categories of data that would reach practically all
of the population, regardless of the level of risk it represents from
the perspective of the prevention of money laundering and the financing of
terrorism, becoming the exception of the possibility of treatment of
biometric data in the general rule, contrary to what is intended by the RGPD.

Precisely, the inadmissibility of using these techniques with a
widespread, is collected in the aforementioned Order of the Provincial Court of
Barcelona:

Having stated what precedes in the preceding paragraphs, this Chamber
considers that the measure requested by the entity, commercial,
MERCADONA S.A. is in no way proportional, necessary or
also suitable. The convicts in this execution, Messrs. Juan
Ignacio Esmeralda were banned from accessing a
specific supermarket of the Mercadona entity, specifically
located on Frederic Mompou s/n street in the town of San Boi de
Llobregat; there has been no record, or at least of the testimony of
individuals referred to this section, there is no evidence that the same
violate the corresponding prohibition of access to the center
nor that they are repeat offenders in said conduct.
But what is more, this Chamber cannot share that with the measure
interested party is protecting the public interest, but rather, the
private or particular interests of the company in question, because as
has already been explained in the previous paragraphs, they would be violating
adequate guarantees in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties, not only of those who have been sentenced and
whose prohibition of access concerns them, but of the rest of the people who
access the aforementioned supermarket”

 

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

25

Legal cabinet

Consequently, the proposal for data processing based on the
facial recognition for identification purposes under the AML/CFT law
is not authorized in accordance with article 9.2.g) of the RGPD, has no basis
of legitimacy under article 6.1 of the same and is contrary to the
principles of necessity, proportionality and minimization.

Being, therefore, an illegal treatment, said illegality cannot
avoided by applying proactive security measures, since the
illegality of the treatment determines that they are irrelevant, so
they are not analyzed.

According to what has been exposed, the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data issues a report unfavorable to the processing of the project
referenced.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

26

