Ref. 11.17.001.008.042 
 

Decision 

Subject: Authorisation for the release of medical records and processing of health-related 

data in the context of employment by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd 

 

 

0F  

 

A.  Case description 

A complaint was lodged in Germany against the company Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd (the controller), 
which  was  subsequently  transmitted  to  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection  (Cyprus 
SA), which is acting as the lead authority in this matter. 
 
The  company’s  main  activity  is  the  provision  of  seafarer  recruitment  and  placement  services  on 
cruise  ships.  Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd  owns/manages  the  following  companies:  sea  chefs  River 
Cruises Ltd, sea chefs River  Management Ltd, Ocean Spa Ltd, sea chefs Holding AG, sea chefs 
Cruises  Worldwide  GmbH,  sea  chefs  Human  Resources  Services  GmbH,  sea  chefs  Cruise 
Management  GmbH,  sea  chefs  Malta  Ltd,  sea  chefs  Cruise  Services  GmbH,  sea  chefs  Human 
Resources Services GmbH/Branch office Hamburg (jointly referred to as “the Company”). 
 
In the framework of its activities the company is held to comply with its legal obligations to conform 
with  relevant  laws,  regulations  and  international  conventions  which  makes  it  obligatory  for  the 
company  to  hold  and  process  health-related  data  of  employees  and  namely  the  Maritime  Labour 
Convention, MLC 2006, International Labour Organisation, International Convention on Standards 
of  Training,  Certification  and  Watchkeeping  for  Seafarers  1978,  as  amended  (“STCW”) 
International  Management  Code  for  the  Safe  Operation  of  Ships  and  for  Pollution,  Prevention 
(International  Safety  Management  (ISM)  CODE),  Guidelines  on  the  medical  examinations  of 
seafarers, International Labour Organisation (ILO), International Maritime Organisation,  Merchant 
Shipping  Act  (Cap.  234)/  Flag  State  Requirements  of  Malta,  Merchant  Shipping  CH.  268  /  Flag 
State Requirements of Bahamas and the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 
 
The  obligation  includes  the  mandatory  medical  examinations  for  issuance  of  the  Fit-For-Duty 
certificates.  
 
Prior  to  beginning  work  on  a  ship,  the  company  requests  from  employees  to  sign  a  general 
Authorisation for the release of medical records in order to have access to their medical records to 
be able to assist the employees with medical care, to arrange any associated travel and to handle 
any medical claim, in the event of a medical incident taking place onboard.  
 
Namely the “Authorisation for release of medical records” provides multiple purposes inter alia (1) 
the authorisation given to any doctor, pharmacist, insurance company etc. to disclose to Sea Chefs 
Cruises Ltd all health information and medical records […] (2) consent given to any other company 
or any other doctor […] who is in possession of medical/health data to allow Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd 
free access to those data (3) consent to the ability of the Company to ask questions and discuss 
the  medical  information  [...]  (4)  consent  to  transfer  or  disclose  medical  data  to  local  or  foreigh 
Authorities  an/or  Agents  etc.  when  it  is  provided  by  law  or  collective  agreements  or  according to 
the terms of the employment [...]. 
 

Under  the  section  “Purpose  of  the  authorisation  for  release  of  medical  records”  of  the  Privacy 
notice (issue date 15-03-2019) the following is provided: 
 
“The Company needs to have your Authorisation for release of Medical Records, attached below, 
signed  by  you  in  order  to  be  able  to  have  access  to  your  medical  records.  This  will  only  be 
necessary in the event of a medical incident taking place onboard and for enabling the Company to 
manage your medical care and any associated medical claims timely and effectively. 
 
You have the right to refuse signing the Authorisation.  However, in such a case please note that 
we  will  not  be  in  the  position  to  offer  you  employment  since  we  will  not  be  able  to  abide  by  our 
collective bargaining agreement obligations, offer you medical treatment when necessary, confirm 
you are fit for duty to safeguard your personal health and safety and to reduce risks to other crew 
members and for the safe operation of the ship.” 
 
The complainant, who works for the company, considers that such  Authorisation is breach of the 
rules provided under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
 

B. Explanations provided by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd  

 
In the framework of the investigation by Cyprus SA, Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd provided the following 
information on 12.05.2020: 
 
The  company  prepared  and  made  available  to  its  staff  (data  subjects)  a  Privacy  Notice  for  the 
purpose, inter alia, of transparent communication and information about the personal data held in 
the company (including special categories of data), the purpose of their collection and processing, 
their  rights  regarding  personal  data,  the  legal  basis  for  their  collection,  the  administrative  and 
technical protection measures applied, their retention period, etc. 
 
The  personal  data  collected  from  the  data  subjects  is  necessary  for  the  execution  of  the  work 
[contact]  and  the  observance  of  the  obligations  of  the  company  as  an  employer  arising  from  its 
contractual  obligations,  from  the  relevant  legal  framework  and  for  safeguarding  the  legitimate 
interests  of  the  company.  The  relevant  laws,  regulations,  international  conventions  and  related 
contracts  that  render  mandatory  the  collection  and  processing  of  health-related  data  by  the 
controller are laid down in a separate list [attachment 1]. 
 
The need to provide an Authorisation for Release of Medical Records arose from the fact that the 
doctors/practitioners  on  board  and  the  doctors  at  the  medical  centers  where  crew  members  are 
transported for treatment, refuse to release the medical data to the company without the consent of 
the  crew  member.  It  is  clarified  that  most  doctors  on  board  are  employed  by  the  clients  of  Sea 
Chefs Cruises Ltd, who are the ship-owning companies (outsourcing). Some doctors/practitioners 
work as free-lancers and in a few cases the doctors are employed by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd.  
 
Due to incomplete and/or insufficient relevant medical data provided by employees, the company is 
constantly exposed to the following risks: 
1.  Exposure  the  crew  member  and  his  health  to  danger,  during  his  repatriation  after  illness  or 
accident. The responsibility for the safe repatriation of each patient (employee) is assigned to the 
employer  and  not  to  the  ship's  doctor  after  disembarkation  from  the  ship.  In  addition,  post-
repatriation recovery supervision is still the responsibility of the employer. 

 

Page 2 of 8 

2. Failure to properly inform the family of each crew member (next of kin), after illness or accident. 
Informing the family is a contractual obligation under the Collective Bargaining Agreement . 
3. Inability to properly defend a legal case in the event of legal proceedings. 
4. Refusal of Maritime Insurance (P&I Club) to pay compensation. 
5. Charging the company with the payment of Sickness Compensation for up to 130 days due to 
failure to submit relevant and sufficient medical data. 
 
Several  times,  the  company  engaged  discussions  with  its  customers  (mostly  Germans)  to  find  a 
solution  to  the  release  of  medical  records  without  much  result.  German  customers  continuously 
allege  that  in  the  industry  all  companies  seek  the  consent  of  their  employees  to  collect  their 
medical  data.  If  the  company  chose  a  different  approach,  the  customers  are  afraid  that  the 
company  would  have  a  problem  with  employees  and  would  constantly  receive  complaints  and 
resignations.  Some  customers  threatened  to  terminate  their  cooperation  if  the  company  did  not 
provide this option. 
 
Initially the Authorisation was a separate document and was given to the crew member when he or 
she  needed  medical  care,  off  board,  due  to  illness  or  after  an  accident.  However,  it  was  difficult 
and sometimes impossible to ask the crew member to sign the Authorisation at the time of a health 
problem  or  the  accident.  Therefore,  the  company  decided  to  collect  the  Privacy  Notice  (general 
Authorisation)  in  advance,  upon  commencement  of  the  employment,  together  with  the  Privacy 
Statement. If no medical incident or injury takes place and no medical claims are made against the 
Company, there will be no requirement to access medical records of the employees. 
 
In order to assess whether the processing of employee’s health related data by Sea chefs Cruises 
Ltd is line with the GDPR, Cyprus SA acquired additional information and namely: 
 
Concerning the collection of health related data prior to employment - 
(a) the categories of all health data collected by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd  
(b) anonymized copies of medical records provided by employees 
 
In the event of illness and injury of an employee while serving on board of a vessel-  
(c) the  procedure  followed  by  Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd  in  relation  to  the  collection  and  sharing  of 
health related data after the incident (illness and injury)  
(d) the categories of all health data collected by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd  
(e)anonymized copies of medical certificates and medical records provided by employees 
 
The company provided in due time all documentation requested, by letter of 12.10.2020. 
 
In  their  letter  of  22.12.2020  the  company  explained  that  “the  particular  circumstances  of  the 
industry  sea  chefs  operates  in  and  the  multitude  of  laws,  regulations  and  agreements  we  must 
abide by especially with regards to the crewmembers’ health and safety as well as passengers. For 
this reason, essentially, we cannot employ anyone without collecting and processing their medical 
data and we are obliged to retain and have available such information. We are also obliged to offer 
medical care to our crewmembers.” They further pointed out that “the Authorisation for the release 
of  medical  records’  clearly  states  the  purposes  and  reasons  such  release  is  requested  and  very 
strictly declares that such process will be protected, restricted, limited and only when necessary for 
the purposes contained therein.” 
 
 

Page 3 of 8 

 

C. Legal framework 

 
Definition of consent 
Article  4(11)  GDPR:  ‘consent’  of  the  data  subject  means  any  freely  given,  specific,  informed  and 
unambiguous  indication  of  the  data  subject's  wishes  by  which  he  or  she,  by  a  statement  or  by  a 
clear  affirmative  action,  signifies  agreement  to the  processing  of  personal  data  relating  to  him  or 
her. 
 
Article 5: Principles relating to processing of personal data 
Personal data shall be: 
(a)  processed  lawfully,  fairly  and  in  a  transparent  manner  in  relation  to  the  data  subject 
(‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’); 
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner 
that is incompatible with those purposes (‘purpose limitation’); 
(c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they 
are processed (‘data minimisation’); 
 
Article 7: Conditions for consent 
3. The data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time. The withdrawal 
of  consent  shall  not  affect  the  lawfulness  of  processing  based  on  consent  before  its  withdrawal. 
Prior to giving consent, the data subject shall be informed thereof. It shall be as easy to withdraw 
as to give consent. 
 
Article 9: Processing of special categories of personal data 
1.  Processing  of  personal  data  revealing  racial  or  ethnic  origin,  political  opinions,  religious  or 
philosophical  beliefs,  or  trade  union  membership,  and  the  processing  of  genetic  data,  biometric 
data  for  the  purpose  of  uniquely  identifying  a  natural  person,  data  concerning  health  or  data 
concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation shall be prohibited.”. 
Paragraph 2: 
Paragraph 1 shall not apply if –  
(a) the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or 
more  specified  purposes,  except  where  Union  or  Member  State  law  provide  that  the  prohibition 
referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject; 
(b)  the  processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the  obligations  and  exercising 
specific rights of the controller or of the data subject in the field of employment and social security 
and social protection law in so far as it is authorised by Union or Member State law or a collective 
agreement pursuant to Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the fundamental 
rights and the interests of the data subject (). 
or/ and 
(h)  processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  preventive  or  occupational  medicine,  for  the 
assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or 
social care or treatment or the management of health or social care systems and services on the 
basis of Union or Member State law or pursuant to contract with a health professional and subject 
to the conditions and safeguards referred to in paragraph 3; 
3.  Personal  data  referred  to  in  paragraph 1  may  be  processed  for  the  purposes  referred  to  in 
point (h)  of  paragraph 2  when  those  data  are  processed  by  or  under  the  responsibility  of  a 
professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy under Union or Member State law or 
rules established by national competent bodies or by another person also subject to an obligation 
of secrecy under Union or Member State law or rules established by national competent bodies. 

Page 4 of 8 

 

 

D. Views of Cyprus SA and Reasoning 

 
As it stands now, the Authorisation appears to be based on the consent of the employee.  Indeed, 
under article 9(2)(a) of the GDPR the controller may rely on explicit consent of the data subject for 
the  processing  of  special  categories  of  data.  Cyprus  SA  underlines  that  in  such  a  case,  various 
conditions  should  apply  for  the  validity  of  the  consent:  not  only  should  the  consent  be  explicit  it 
must also be freely given, specific and informed (article 4(11) of the GDPR).  
 
Cyprus  SA  considers  that  the  condition  of  freely  given  consent  does  not  apply  in  the  present 
case,  as  employees  of  Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd  who  are  requested  to  sign  the  Privacy  Notice  in 
advance  upon  commencement  of  the  employment,  have  no  real  choice.  They  feel  compelled  to 
consent and if they do not consent, they will endure negative consequences, and namely they will 
“not be offered employment”. Consequently, consent is not considered to be freely given when the 
employee is unable to refuse or withdraw his or her consent without detriment. In line with article 
7(3) of the GDPR, the data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at any time 
and the withdrawal of consent shall not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent 
before its withdrawal.  
 
Moreover, Cyprus SA considers that in the employment sector, in general, consent should not be 
used  as  the  lawful  basis  for  the  processing  due  to  the  imbalance  of  the  relationship  between 
employer  and  employee.  Given  the  dependency  that  results  from  the  employer/employee 
relationship,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  data  subject  is  able  to  deny  his/her  employer  consent  to  data 
processing without experiencing the fear or real risk of detrimental effects as a result of a refusal. 
Reference  should  be  made  in  this  regard  to  previous  decisions  of  Cyprus  SA,  [decision  against 
Louis  Group  Ltd  of  12/10/2019,  Decision  against  Gan  Direct  Insurance  of  24/5/2018,  Decision 
against Apollonion Hospital of 02/10/2012] where the authority ordered the controllers to cease the 
processing, among other reasons, due to the fact that consent cannot be used as the lawful basis 
for the processing.  
 
In  relation  to  the  condition  of  freely  given  consent,  reference  is  made  to  the  EDPB  Guidelines 
05/2020 on consent, which state that: 
 

The element “free” implies real choice and control for data subjects. As  a general rule, the GDPR 
prescribes  that  if  the  data  subject  has  no  real  choice,  feels  compelled  to  consent  or  will  endure 
negative consequences if they do not consent, then consent will not be valid. If consent is bundled 
up as a non-negotiable part of terms and conditions it is presumed not to have been freely given. 
Accordingly,  consent  will  not  be  considered  to  be  free  if  the  data  subject  is  unable  to  refuse  or 
withdraw  his or  her  consent  without  detriment.  The  notion  of  imbalance  between  the  controller 
and the data subject is also taken into consideration by the GDPR. (§ 13 page 7) 

When  assessing  whether  consent  is  freely  given,  one  should  also  take  into  account  the  specific 
situation of tying consent into contracts or the  provision of a service  as described in Article 7(4). 
Article 7(4)  has been drafted in a non-exhaustive  fashion by the  words “inter alia”, meaning that 
there may be a range of other situations, which are caught by this provision. In general terms, any 
element of inappropriate pressure or influence upon the data subject (which may be manifested in 
many different ways) which prevents a data subject from exercising their free will, shall render the 
consent invalid. (§ 14 page 7) 

 

Page 5 of 8 

An imbalance of power also occurs in the employment context.1 Given the dependency that results 
from the employer/employee relationship, it is unlikely that the data subject is able to deny his/her 
employer  consent  to  data  processing  without  experiencing  the  fear  or  real  risk  of  detrimental 
effects as a result of a refusal. It is unlikely that an employee would be able to respond freely to a 
request  for  consent  from  his/her  employer  to,  for  example,  activate  monitoring  systems  such  as 
camera observation in a workplace, or to fill out assessment forms, without feeling any pressure to 
consent.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  deems  it  problematic  for  employers  to  process  personal  data  of 
current  or  future  employees  on  the  basis  of  consent  as  it  is  unlikely  to  be  freely  given.  For  the 
majority of such data processing at work, the lawful basis cannot and should not be the consent of 
the  employees  (Article  6(1)(a))  due  to  the  nature  of  the  relationship  between  employer  and 
employee.2 (§ 21 page 9) 

 
It follows from the above that "consent" of the employees provided  in the form the  “Authorisation 
for  release  of  medical  records”  of  the  Privacy  notice  (issue  date  15-03-2019)  does  not  fulfil  the 
requirements of valid consent. 
 
Furthermore,  in  accordance  with  the  minimisation/  proportionality  principle  (article  5(1)(c)  of  the 
GDPR), the data processed by the controller should be  adequate, relevant and limited to what is 
necessary  in  relation  to  the  purposes  for  which  they  are  processed.  In  this  regard,  Cyprus  SA 
considers  that  the  controller  should  collect  and  generally  process  only  data  that  are  absolutely 
necessary to be able to assist the employees with medical care, to arrange any associated travel 
and to handle any medical claim, in line with relevant laws and the purposes laid down in Article 12 
(Medical Care, Sick Pay and Maintenance) and Article 14 (Death and Disability Compensation) of 
the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 
 
As previously explained, in the framework of its activities, Sea Chefs Ltd is held to comply with its 
legal  obligations  to  conform  with  relevant  laws,  regulations  and  international  conventions  which 
makes it obligatory for the company to hold and process health-related data of employees, as well 
as for the purposes set out in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 
 
According  to  the  explanations  given  by  Sea  Chefs  Ltd,  due  to  incomplete  and/or  insufficient 
relevant medical data provided by employees, the company is constantly exposed to the following 
risks: 
1.  Exposure  the  crew  member  and  his  health  to  danger,  during  his  repatriation  after  illness  or 
accident. The responsibility for the safe repatriation of each patient (employee) is assigned to the 
employer  and  not  to  the  ship's  doctor  after  disembarkation  from  the  ship.  In  addition,  post-
repatriation recovery supervision is still the responsibility of the employer. 
2. Failure to properly inform the family of each crew member (next of kin), after illness or accident. 
Informing the family is a contractual obligation under the Collective Bargaining Agreement . 
3. Inability to properly defend a legal case in the event of legal proceedings. 
4. Refusal of Maritime Insurance (P&I Club) to pay compensation. 
5. Charging the company with the payment of Sickness Compensation for up to 130 days due to 
failure to submit relevant and sufficient medical data. 
 

                                                 
1
 See also Article 88 GDPR, where the need for protection of the specific interests of employees is emphasised and a 
possibility for derogations in Member State law is created. See also Recital 155. 
2
 See Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work, page 6-7. 

Page 6 of 8 

 

Article  9(2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  possible  exemptions  to  the  ban  on  processing  special 
categories of data. Apart from consent, Article 9(2) describes nine additional lawful bases on which 
a controller can rely on. 
 
Cyprus SA was called upon to assess whether the controller could rely on another legal basis for 
the collection and general processing of employees’ health-related data, other than consent. 
 
On the basis of the information available to it, Cyprus SA considers that Sea Chefs Ltd is entitled to 
process  health-related  data  of  employees  on  the  basis  of  article  9(2)(b)  of  the  GDPR,  when  the 
processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the  obligations  and  exercising  specific 
rights of the controller or of the data subject in the field of employment in so far as it is authorised 
by the collective agreement and only where necessary to achieve those purposes for the benefit of 
employees, in particular in the context of the management of health care services and systems.  
 
Yet, the collective agreement should provide for appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights 
and  the  interests  of  the  data  subject.  Those  safeguards  must  include  suitable  and  specific 
measures  to  safeguard  the  data  subject's  human  dignity,  legitimate  interests  and  fundamental 
rights,  with  particular  regard  to  the  transparency  of  processing  and  the  transfer  of  personal  data 
within a group of undertakings, or a group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity and 
monitoring systems at the work place. 
 
On  the  basis  of  article  9(2)  (h)  of  the  GDPR,  Sea  Chefs  Ltd  is  entitled  to  process  health-related 
data of employees, when the processing is necessary for the assessment of the working capacity 
of  the  employee,  medical  diagnosis,  the  provision  of  health  care  or  treatment,  under  the 
responsibility  of  a  professional  subject  to  the  obligation  of  professional  secrecy  under  Union  or 
Member State law or rules established by national competent bodies. 
 
In light of the above, the assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, 
the  provision  of  health  care  or  treatment,  should  only  be  done  under  the  responsibility  of  a 
professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy and Sea Chefs can only access those 
data authorised by law and collective agreements. 
 

E. Decision 

 
Cyprus  SA  assessed  all  the  information  available  in  relation  to  this  case  and  decided  that  the 
consent  provided  by  employees  to  the  controller  “Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd”,  by  means  of  the 
“Authorisation for release of medical records” of the Privacy notice (issue date 15-03-2019), is not 
in accordance with the rule of Article 4(11) and Article 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation. 
 
Cyprus  SA  considers  that  in  the  employment  sector,  consent  should  not  be  used  as  the  lawful 
basis for the processing due to the imbalance of the relationship between employer and employee. 
Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd should explore the specific exceptions in Article 9(2) subparagraphs (b) to 
(j) to lawfully process health-related data of employees.  
 
In accordance with the minimisation/ proportionality principle (article 5(1)(c) of the GDPR), Cyprus 
SA considers that the controller should collect and generally process only data that are absolutely 
necessary to be able to assist the employees with medical care, to arrange any associated travel 
and to handle any medical claim, in line with relevant laws and the purposes set out in Article 12 

 

Page 7 of 8 

(Medical Care, Sick Pay and Maintenance) and Article 14 (Death and Disability Compensation) of 
the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 
 
In light of the above, and in accordance with the powers conferred to the Commissioner by Article 
58(2)(d) of the GDPR, the Commissioner orders the controller: 
 

a) to cease the processing of health data of employees based on consent, 
b)  to  bring  the  processing  operations  into  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
GDPR and in particular to take actions as to process only those health related data 
in the employment context which are necessary for the discharge of obligations laid 
down by law or by the collective agreements for the purposes of the recruitment, the 
performance  of  the  contract  of  employment,  health  and  safety  at  work,  and  the 
exercise and enjoyment of rights and benefits of employees, 
c) to inform the Commissioner on the actions taken to comply with this Decision at 
the latest within one month from the date of this decision. 

 
In  the  event  that  Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd  does  not  comply  with  the  above  order  within  the 
aforementioned deadlines, the Commissioner shall envisage additional corrective actions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner  
For Personal Data Protection 
 
 
12 January 2021 
 

 

Page 8 of 8 

