ANNUAL REPORT 2018

THE OFFICE OF THE DATA PROTECTION  

OMBUDSMAN

Data protection is  
a success factor

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
safeguards the rights and freedoms of individuals 
with regard to the processing of personal data. 
For us, data protection is a factor of success: for 
individuals,  it  means  better  protection  of  their 
personal data and the ability to manage it, while for 
businesses, it generates a competitive advantage 
based on responsible operations.

The  Office  of  the  Data  Protection  Ombudsman 
is an autonomous and independent authority that 
employs approximately 40 experts. The present Data 
Protection Ombudsman, Reijo Aarnio, has held the 
post since 1997. In the spring of 2019, the Office will 
see the appointment of two Deputy Data Protection 
Ombudsmen. The Data Protection Ombudsman and 
Deputy Ombudsmen are appointed by the government.

2

Our goals for 2017– 2020
  We will promote the citizens’ right to 
the protection of privacy and trust 
in the transparency of personal data 
processing in an increasingly digital 
society.

  We will successfully implement 
the objectives and effects of the 
data protection reform in national 
legislation and the activities of 
authorities.

  We will take preventive action to 
deter personal data breaches.

  We will promote the awareness 
of citizens, controllers and data 
processors of their rights and 
obligations related to data protection.

  We will promote the development of 
a single digital market within the EU.

Our operating principles: 
freedom of independent action, 
harnessing the power of the 
community, professionalism, 
proactiveness and guidance.

The cornerstones  
of our strategy:
anticipation and prioritisation, 
competence, guidance based  
on information and alliances.

Our values: 
communality, fairness and 
independence, timeliness, creativity, 
transparency and intelligibility.

3

Data Protection 
Ombudsman’s annual 
review

The third page in the history of data protection was 
turned in the 31st operating year of the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman, when the EU's 
General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679) 
was implemented on 25 May. At the same time, the 
Data Protection Directive (2016/680) updated the 
legislation on data protection in criminal matters. 
This directive also required national implementation 
measures (Act on data protection in criminal matters 
1054/2018).

The GDPR also includes many directive-like features 
that require national implementation. Therefore, 
a national Data Protection Act (1050/2018) was 
drafted under the supervision of the Ministry of 
Justice and entered into force on 1 January 2019, 
replacing the previous Personal Data Act and the 
related Decree. The process also involved extensive 
amendments to national special legislation. The Data 
Protection Ombudsman was heard by Parliament 
93 times in 2018. The work of the Parliamentary 
Constitutional  Law  Committee  was  particularly 
noteworthy. The Committee redefined its policies 
on enactments governing the protection of personal 
data and ruled that the GDPR essentially amounted 
to the level of data protection required by section 
10 of the Constitution, also noting the risk-based 
approach of the GDPR.

New powers and duties
The GDPR entailed many changes. It significantly 
improved the rights of data subjects, imposed new 
obligations on controllers and facilitated operations 

in the digital single market. At the same time, it 
caused the upheaval of the century in the work and 
powers of the enforcement authorities.

One chapter in the history of data protection was 
closed  with  the  dissolution  of  the  independent 
Data Protection Board of Finland, which used to 
be  the  highest  decision-making  authority  in  the 
field  of  data  protection.  The  work  is  continued 
by the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), 
which began operations in May. The EDPB and its 
various sub-committees launched their operations 
successfully, and an agenda was drawn up for the 
EDPB for 2019–2020. However, it seems likely that 
the capacity of the EDPB will be sorely tested by the 
growing number of cases in the near future. 

The reform also gave birth to a new profession, the 
Data Protection Officer. The Office welcomes the 
new Officers and their assistance to data subjects 
and controllers as a positive development.

We were still forced to operate under two sets of 
legislation for part of the year, which naturally posed 
challenges to the service provision capacity of our 
Office. Another noteworthy feature of the past year 
was the explosive growth in case numbers. The Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman registered 9,617 
cases instituted in 2018, while the corresponding 
number in the previous year was 3,957. The GDPR 
brought  entirely  categories  of  matters,  such  as 
Data Protection Officer notifications, notifications 
of personal data breaches and cross-border matters 
applying to several EU Member States.

4

Additional resources required
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
is  seeking  to  adapt  its  operations  to  the  data 
protection  reform  of  the  century  by  improving 
its  competence  management.  We  drew  up 
descriptions of practically every new task appointed 
to the Office and updated our ERP system. Our 
staff did an unbelievable amount of work with the 
scant resources available. My heartfelt thanks to 
all colleagues for this.

Thankfully,  we  were  also  assigned  some  extra 
resources. It is my belief that our competence in 
the subject matter is among the best in Europe! The 
recruitment process for two Deputy Data Protection 
Ombudsmen was started in late 2018. When they 
take up their posts, we will have the collegium 
required  by  the  national  Data  Protection  Act, 
enabling the Office to exercise the powers granted 
by the GDPR. The collegium is an internal body of 
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman with 
multiple members, which decides on administrative 
sanctions  for  infringements  of  data  protection 
legislation.

The enactment of new intelligence legislation was 
also the subject of great interest in 2018. The Office 
was mainly involved with the oversight of legality in 
the process. After many and varied developments, 
the bill was finally passed this year. As a result, an 
independent Office of the Intelligence Ombudsman 
will be established parallel to the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman.

Unprecedented interest  
in data protection
The Data Protection Ombudsman has witnessed 
some eventful years in the history of the office. 
In my experience, the past year was nevertheless 
completely  exceptional  in  comparison  to  any 
that  have  gone  before.  On  the  one  hand,  the 
reform  described  above  and,  on  the  other,  the 
Government's actions at the conclusion of its term 
made the year the most intensive in the memory 
of the Ombudsman. The media also expressed an 
exceptional interest in data protection. 

Cases instituted and resolved

Cases instituted and resolved

10000

7500

5000

2500

0

9617

6716

3862

3640

3957

3438

2016

2017

2018

Cases instituted

Cases resolved

5

The entry of “top experts in data protection” to 
the market in such great numbers was also a new 
phenomenon, at least to myself. The early days 
of  the  GDPR  were  a  goldmine  for  consultants. 
Unfortunately, the information offered to controllers 
was not always up to standard. These entrepreneurs 
”marketed” the new legislation mainly from the 
perspective of sanctions. This had the effect of 
making some controllers turn in on themselves, 
while the purpose of the GDPR was to encourage 
businesses to seek growth on the digital single 
market by introducing common rules for a market 
of 510 million consumers.

Data protection is an enabler and a success factor. 
The approach of the 2019 elections revealed that 
it is also one of the safeguards of democracy. The 
Cambridge Analytica scandal was largely based 
on inappropriate profiling. In addition, our attention 
was  drawn  to  the  use  of  artificial  intelligence. 
Digitalisation is proceeding, and providers want 
to make service provision faster and more cost-
effective. The GDPR makes provision for approving 

the  use  of  AI  in  national  legislation,  provided 
that appropriate measures are adopted for the 
protection of data subjects.

Reijo Aarnio

Data Protection Ombudsman

Processing time of the cases resolved (days)

Processing time in the end of year 2018 (days)

48,2

41,2

38,4

2016

2017

2018

49

36,75

24,5

12,25

0

6

Focus areas of data 
protection activities

As part of preparing for the implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman established process teams tasked with ensuring the uniform processing of cases in their 
area of responsibility and the development of processing.

Processing of personal data  
breaches launched

One of the most important tasks of the Personal 
Data  Breaches  process  team  is  to  ensure  the 
smooth  reception  and  uniform  processing  of 
personal data breach notifications. The process 
team consists of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman's  legal  experts  and  specialised  IT 
experts specialising in personal data breaches.

The Personal Data Breaches process team helps 
the Office's other staff with the processing and 
evaluation of personal data breach notifications. To 
this end, the process team has drawn up internal 
guidelines for the assessment of risks and the 
processing of typical cases. In the case of atypical 
personal data breaches, the process team helps 
the referendary with the processing of the case. 

The tasks of the Personal Data Breaches process 
team have been developed as needed. The team 
has drawn up new guidelines and modified the 
personal data breach notification form on the basis 
of feedback.

The obligation to report personal data breaches 
entered into force with the adoption of the GDPR 
on 25 May 2018. The Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman must be notified of personal data 

The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman 
was notified of 2,220 
personal data breaches  

in 2018.

breaches if the breach could cause a risk to the 
rights and freedoms of natural persons. 

After notifying the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman about the data breach, controllers 
can get advice relating to the protection of personal 
data  and  whether  the  people  affected  by  the 
breach must be notified about the breach or not. 
If  necessary,  the  Data  Protection  Ombudsman 
may order the organisation to comply with the 
obligations imposed by the GDPR.

7

Process team develops cooperation with  
Data Protection Officers

The  Data  Protection  Officers  process  team 
supervises the reception and processing of Data 
Protection  Officer  notifications  and  improves 
the  accessibility  of  Data  Protection  Officers 
and  communications  with  them.  In  addition  to 
legal experts employed by the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman, the process team includes 
an information services secretary who maintains 
the register of Data Protection Officers.

Organisations have been required to notify the 
Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman of their 
Data Protection Officers since the entry into force 
of the GDPR on 25 May 2018. The Data Protection 
Officer is the organisation's internal data protection 
expert who monitors the processing of personal 
data and assists the management and personnel 
with compliance with data protection legislation. 
The Data Protection Officer serves as the contact 
person for data subjects and the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman in matters concerning the 
organisation's processing of personal data.

The details of 1,227  

Data Protection Officers 
had been communicated 
to the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman  

by the end of 2018.

An organisation is required to appoint  
a Data Protection Officer if it  
 ▪  processes sensitive data on a large scale;
 ▪  monitors individuals regularly, 
 ▪  is a public authority other than  

systematically and on a large scale; or

a court of law.

8

People are aware of their data protection rights

Matters  involving  complaints  and  the  rights  of 
the data subject are some of the most important 
aspects of the duties of the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman. They include reports of 
the  infringement  of  data  protection  rights  and 
suspected cases of an individual or organisation 
processing  personal  data  in  violation  of  data 
protection regulations, but also various requests 
for advice or additional information.

After the implementation of the GDPR, the Office 
established a process team for matters involving 
the  rights  of  the  data  subject,  with  tasks  such 
as creating uniform procedures for processing 
complaints filed by data subjects. In its first year 
of operations, the team sought to prioritise matters 
with the most extensive or serious impact on data 
subjects and matters that had been in processing 
for a long time.

The cases instituted by data subjects are typically 
unique in their circumstances, which affects their 
processing and the time required for it. Complaints 
and legal questions in particular tend to require 
additional 
information,  the  acquisition  and 
processing of which takes time. 

You can expedite the processing of your case in 
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman by 
describing the matter as precisely as possible from 
the start. Assistance in this is available from the 
instructions and forms on the website of the Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman. The site also 
contains a service path for determining the best 
way to proceed with your case.

Cases involving the rights of the data subject

Matters involving the rights of the data subject

900

675

450

225

0

9

723

841

590

576

584

562

2016

2017

2018

Cases instituted

Cases resolved

Impact assessments help identify risks

The impact assessment and prior consultation 
procedures  were  launched  in  2018,  with  few 
actual procedures carried out yet. In the autumn 
of  2018,  the  European  Data  Protection  Board 
confirmed  EU-wide  criteria  specifying  when  an 
impact assessment is required. On the basis of 
these criteria, the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman drew up the national list of processing 
types requiring impact assessments required by the 
GDPR. The list was published in December 2018 
and covered the processing of data categories such 
as biometric, genetic and geographic data. The 
first prior consultations in Finland are expected in 
early 2019.

The impact assessment is a self-assessment tool 
provided by the GDPR to controllers for identifying 
threats to the rights and freedoms of individuals 
posed by the planned processing, assessing the 
severity and probability of the risks constituted 
by these threats, and adopting adequate security 
measures for dealing with elevated risks. Among 
other things, the impact assessment can be used 
to implement the data protection by design and by 
default and the demonstration obligation, referred 
to in Article 25 of the GDPR.    

A prior consultation is required before the start 
of  planned  processing  activities  if  the  impact 
assessment  indicates  that  the  processing  of 
personal data would cause a high risk to the rights 
and freedoms of the data subject and the controller 
is not able to decrease the level of risk through 
measures of its own. In the prior consultation, the 
controller contacts the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman, which then issues written instructions 
for reducing the level of risk. 

10

The new European 
Data Protection 
Board increased 
international 
cooperation

The  European  data  protection  authorities 
consolidated their cooperation further in 2018. 
The authorities prepared for the implementation 
of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation by 
drawing up guidelines and planning the activities 
of the European Data Protection Board.

The founding meeting of the EDPB convened on 
25 May, the date of the GDPR’s implementation. 
At the same time, the data protection authorities’ 
cooperation body preceding the EDPB, the Article 
29 Working Party, was dissolved. The Chairwoman 
of the Art. 29 WP, Andrea Jelinek, was appointed 
to continue as the chair of the European Data 
Protection Board. Jelinek’s term will last for five 
years.

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  is  an 
independent EU body consisting of the Union's 
national  data  protection  authorities  and  the 
representatives of the European Data Protection 
Supervisor.  The  EEA  member  states  Iceland, 

Norway and Liechtenstein are also members of 
the EDPB by virtue of the EFTA Convention. The 
Commission  has  the  right  to  participate  in  the 
activities of the EDPB and attend its meetings, but 
not to vote in them. 

The European Data Protection Board is responsible 
for the uniform application of the EU's General Data 
Protection  Regulation  and  the  Data  Protection 
Directive applying to police and criminal justice 
authorities.  It  issues  clarifying  guidelines  and 
decisions on data protection legislation. A key task 
of the EDPB is to promote cooperation between the 
EU's data protection authorities.

In its first plenary session, the EDPB decided to 
support the guidelines drawn up by the Art. 29 WP 
on the application of the GDPR, and the preparation 
of the guidelines was subsequently continued by 
the  EDPB.  In  the  autumn,  the  EDPB  published 
guidelines on, for example, the GDPR's geographical 
scope and certifications.

11

The  first  statements 
issued  by  the  EDPB 
through the consistency mechanism were also 
finalised in September. The EDPB approved 22 
statements  applying  to  common  requirements 
for  data  protection  impact  assessment  lists. 
The statements were based on the national data 
protection authorities’ lists of processing activities 
that are likely to cause a high risk and thus require 
a data protection impact assessment. Agreeing 
on common criteria is important to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR everywhere in 
the EU. The purpose of the GDPR was to harmonise 
data protection regulations, improve the protection 
of personal data and privacy rights, respond to new 
data protection questions related to digitalisation 
and globalisation, and to promote the development 
of the digital single market.

From the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, 
Data  Protection  Ombudsman  Reijo  Aarnio  and 
Senior  Adviser  Anna  Hänninen  participated  in 
the work of the Art. 29 WP and European Data 
Protection Board. Other staff also took part in the 
work of the sub-committees in their respective 
areas  of  expertise.  In  addition  to  the  existing 
sub-committees,  the  Art.  29  WP  established  a 
new  working  group  for  data  protection  in  the 
social media. The Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman is also represented in this working 
group.

The  EU's  General  Data  Protection  Regulation 
contains detailed rules on cooperation between 
the supervisory authorities of EU Member States 
in cross-border matters. The general definition of a 
cross-border matter is that it has an impact on more 
than one EU Member State. The processing of such 
matters is conducted according to the one-stop-
shop mechanism. This means that, in the future, 

Cross-border  
matters 2018
 ▪ Total: 591
 ▪ Finland as supervisory  
  authority concerned: 106
 ▪ Finland as lead  
  supervisory authority: 5

controllers operating in more than one Member 
State  can  manage  their  cross-border  matters 
through  the  supervisory  authority  of  a  single 
Member State. It is the task of this lead supervisory 
authority to coordinate the processing of the matter 
and draw up a proposal for a decision. The other 
supervisory authorities whom the matter concerns 
also participate in the handling of the case. EU 
authorities  have  a  joint  information  exchange 
system, the IMI, for exchanging information on 
cross-border matters. 

In the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, 
the coordination of cross-border and international 
matters was centralised with one senior adviser, 
supported by one adviser. They also take part in the 
work of the EDPB. In the spring of 2018, a process 
working group was also established for describing 
the processes related to cross-border matters. 

12

P.O.Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland
tel. +358 29 566 6700 (Switchboard) 
tietosuoja@om.fi
www.tietosuoja.fi

