1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00205/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 1, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. (10 DOWING STREET, IRISH PUB) with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
“presence of two cameras outside the establishment towards public space without
just cause."

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves what

complaint, with the presence of two cameras to the outside.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD. On 07/06/20, the Preliminary Actions Report is prepared.
tracks with reference number E/07273/23019.

The background information is the following:

Within the admission file E/05003/2019, an attempt is made to transfer the re-
claim on two occasions resulting in both notifications being returned dated 4
June and June 20, 2019, as they have not been collected from the post office.

Dated June 30, 2019, within the admission procedure
E/05003/2019, it is agreed to open these investigation actions in relation
with the claim filed by the claimant. The claimant is notified on the date
of July 9, 2019.

 Made a request for collaboration to the State Administration Agency
to find out the CIF under which the claimed pub operates, dated
On August 5, 2019, a communication is received in this Agency indicating
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/6

that it has not been possible to obtain the required data with the information provided.
gives.

 On October 15, 2019, notification of the request for information was made.
information about the person in charge of the pub claimed from the Municipal Police of Valla-
dolid without until the date of preparation of this report has received
response in this Agency.

 A request is made for information on the installation of video surveillance.

cia addressed to the claimed being returned on June 23, 2020

 Made a new request for information about the person in charge of the pub
appealed to the City Council of Valladolid, dated July 1, 2020, received
be in this Agency, with registration number 022557/2020, reply sent
given by that City Council informing that the record is recorded on the date
of October 16, 2009 of the change of ownership of the opening license to
D.B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 and domiciled at ***ADDRESS.1

FOURTH: On July 20, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 08/22/20, this AEPD received a written statement of allegations from the party
reported stating the following:

“The current installation of a security camera is recognized
anchored to the facade of the premises owned by the appearing party in which it is located
set up a hospitality business called the Irish Pub 10 Downing Street.

These chambers are simple ORNAMENTS, fulfilling a fusion only
dissuasive to prevent theft and acts of vandalism, as they have been taking place
recently and have motivated the need to undertake the cleaning of the façade.

…the initiation of any sanctioning file is not appropriate since the

fact sanctioned, not being able to constitute an infraction, nor any sanction (...)

As we said, this part of Mr.
Sesma, ignoring this part of the specific facts that were the subject of the complaint, which
they could be combated if they were known (...).

It is evident the animosity and spurious spirit of the unjustified denunciation
submitted to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection by the aforementioned
complainant.

For all the above, I REQUEST that this document be considered presented (...)

and Archive of this procedure as I so request and sign (...)”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency

Data in this procedure are considered the following:

PROVEN FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

First. On 07/01/20, this AEPD received a claim through which
The following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of two cameras outside the establishment towards space

public without just cause.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., which acknowledges being
responsible for the installation for security reasons of the hotel establishment
which runs

Third. The respondent informs that the cameras are dissuasive, in such a way that
They are operational, not processing any personal data.

Fourth. It is proven that the establishment 10 Downing Street has suffered various
acts of vandalism, providing a copy of the invoice for its repair (Doc.
evidence no. 1).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, it is convenient to analyze the request for NULI-
DAD of the file requested by the accused, stating the lack of referral of
the complaint.

It should be noted that the facts object of the complaint were widely exposed
in the Start Agreement notified in a timely manner to the same, as evidenced-
in the computer system of this Agency.

Similarly, there is no evidence that the defendant has requested any copy of the
integrated documentation in this procedure, under the terms of article 53.1
a) “in fine” of Law 39/2015 (October 1).

Therefore, no right has been affected, even less the right to de-
defence, since he has been able to fully understand the facts imputed to him and defend
of the same, which is why it is appropriate to reject your request for Nullity of the
present performances.

III

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 07/01/20

by means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

“The owner of the business called "10 Downing Street", residing at Calle
Verbena 1 of Valladolid, has placed two video surveillance cameras outside the
their establishment, which, due to their location, would be capturing images of spaces
public services” (folio nº 1).

The "facts" are specified in the installation of a video-surveillance system
that controls part of public space without just cause, if the complainant alone
accredits the presence of the exterior cameras.

It should be noted that individuals can install video surveillance cameras,

although they are responsible that they comply with current legislation.

With this type of device, the privacy of third parties cannot be affected,

as close neighbors who can be intimidated by them.

The facts described above may affect the

content of art.5.1 c) RGPD. “Personal data will be:

      c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization").

Video surveillance cameras cannot obtain images of public space.
outside the cases permitted by law, and must be oriented towards the principles
pale entrances of the establishment to be protected.

Article 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD (Lo 3/2018, December 5) provides the

Next:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces, the security function of public spaces
corresponds exclusively to the State Security Forces and Bodies, not to
individuals or private security companies.

III

On 08/22/20, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the party
denounced, stating the “non-operative” nature of the camera that is the object of the complaint,
reason why no personal "data processing" is carried out.

Individuals can install “dummy” cameras as long as they are facing
preferentially towards their private space, not affecting the right to intimidation
of third parties who may be intimidated by them, in the belief that they are
permanently observed.

The evidence provided confirms what was stated by the defendant, so
that no personal "data processing" has taken place, fulfilling a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

cameras installed for the protection of the establishment are of a dissuasive nature.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the recent pronouncement of the STS, Chamber
Civil Law, section 1, of November 7, 2019, No. 600/2019, rec. 5187/2017, EDJ
2019/724119, where the presence of this type of device that may affect
the rights of third parties without just cause may have consequences in other areas.
bits of law.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the reported device is not
deals with any personal data, as it is not operational, which is why there is no
If any administrative infraction has been verified, it is appropriate to order the Archive of this
penalty procedure.

The rest of the issues do not fall within the competence framework of this

Agency, so no statement will be made in this regard.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of administrative infraction according to the facts object of transfer to
this Agency.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. (10 DOWING STREET,
IRISH PUB) and REPORT the result of the proceedings to the complainant Mr.
A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

