1 (5)

Klarna Bank AB
Sveavägen 46
113 35 Stockholm
dataprotectionofficer@klarna.com

Record number:
DI-2020-10518

Date:
2021-03-31

Decision after supervision according to
Data Protection Regulation - Klarna
Bank AB
The decision of the Integrity Protection Authority
The Privacy Protection Authority states that Klarna Bank AB has processed
personal data in breach of Article 12 (3) of the Data Protection Regulation1 by:


with regard to complaint 1: not without undue delay, at the request of 5
January 2019, give the complainant access to his personal data in accordance with
Article 15.

The Integrity Protection Authority gives Klarna Bank a reprimand in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) i
the Data Protection Regulation.

Report on the supervisory matter
The Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) has initiated supervision regarding Klarna Bank AB
(the company) due to two complaints. Respective complaints have been submitted to
IMY, as the supervisory authority responsible for the company's operations under Article 56
in the Data Protection Regulation, from the supervisory authority of the country where the complainant has left
lodged their complaint (Austria and Germany) in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation
on cooperation in cross-border matters.
The complainants have indicated that they have requested access to their personal data in accordance with Article 15 of the
the Data Protection Regulation. In response to the complaints, IMY has initiated supervision with a view to:
investigate whether the complainants' requests for access under Article 15 have been complied with
and if done within the time limit specified in Article 12 (3).

Postal address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm

Klarna Bank AB states that they are responsible for personal data for it
personal data processing to which the complaints apply. The company also states that they handle
a large number of requests in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation.
Complaint 1 (Annex 1 from Austria with national reference number: D130.247)

Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46 / EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
1

Page 1 of 5

Integrity Protection Authority

Registration number: DI-2020-10518
Date: 2021-03-31

2 (5)

With regard to the first complaint, the company states that the complainant's request for access
was received by the company via e-mail on 5, 10 and 29 January 2019. Since the request was received by
an e-mail address other than the one to which the company refers for data protection issues
The request was not processed in accordance with the company's internal processing routines. The
caused a longer processing time and that information as well as a copy of
the complainant's personal data under Article 15 was not sent until 18 June 2019. The company
has promptly answered the complainant's follow-up questions about the company's personal data processing
which the complainant was satisfied with.
Complaint 2 (Annex 2 from Germany with national reference number: LDA-1085.113373 / 19-F)
With regard to the second complaint, the company states that the complainant's request for access
joined the company's chat on October 28, 2019. The complainant repeated his request
via e-mail on October 30, 2019. The company contacted the complainant on November 6
2019 to request further information. These were provided the same day. The
On November 11, 2019, the company sent out information and a copy of the personal data
to the complainant pursuant to Article 15, ie within 14 days of receipt by the company
request. On November 14, 2019, the company sent more detailed information about
the company's automatic decision-making when purchasing. The complainant contacted the company again on
December 13, 2019 due to the fact that he has not received the company's mailing. The company
requested a new address on January 7, 2020 and has not received a response.
The processing has taken place through correspondence. Given that there are two
cross-border complaints, the IMY has used the mechanisms of cooperation
and uniformity contained in Chapter VII of the Data Protection Regulation. Affected
regulators have been the data protection authorities of Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic,
Denmark and Norway.

Justification of decision
Applicable regulations
The person responsible for personal data is obliged to provide information to anyone who requests it
information on personal data concerning the applicant is processed or not. treated
such data, the controller shall, in accordance with Article 15 i
the Data Protection Regulation, provide the applicant with additional information and a
a copy of the personal data processed by the data controller.
According to Article 12 (3), a request for access shall be handled without undue delay and
in any case no later than one month after receipt of the request. The deadline for
one month may be extended by a further two months if the request is special
complicated or the number of requests received is high.
If the time limit is extended by one month, the person responsible for personal data shall notify it
registered about the extension. The extension of the time limit shall be notified
within one month of receipt of the request. The person responsible for personal data must also
state the reasons for the delay.
According to Article 12 (6), the controller may, if he has reasonable grounds for:
question the identity of the natural person submitting a request under Article 15;
request that additional information necessary to confirm the data subject's
identity is provided.

Page 2 of 5

Integrity Protection Authority

Registration number: DI-2020-10518
Date: 2021-03-31

3 (5)

IMY's assessment
Has there been a breach of the Data Protection Regulation?
Complaint 1 (Annex 1 from Austria with national reference number: D130.247)
With regard to the first complaint, the IMY notes that the complainant, in accordance with
Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation, provided with information and a copy of the
personal data processed. However, the right of access was only satisfied after more than
five months from the submission of the first request. The request thus does not have
handled without undue delay and within the stipulated time limit in Article 12 (3) and
the complainant has also not been informed of the delay.
What the company has stated that they handle a large number of inquiry matters according to
the Data Protection Regulation and the fact that follow-up questions are answered promptly does not cause anyone
another assessment regarding the delay and that it was thus a question of one
Infringement of Article 12 (3) concerning complaints 1.
Complaint 2 (Annex 2 from Germany with national reference number: LDA-1085.113373 / 19-F)
With regard to the second complaint, the IMY finds that the complainant, in accordance with
Article 15, provided with information and a copy of the personal data provided
treated. The information was provided without undue delay. After the complainant
pointed out that he had not received the mailing, the company requested alternative contact information.
Against this background, IMY considers that the company has not been obliged to take any
further action in response to that request.
Choice of intervention
Article 58 (2) (i) and Article 83 (2) state that the IMY has the power to impose
administrative penalty fees in accordance with Article 83. Subject to
the circumstances of the individual case, administrative penalty fees shall be imposed
in addition to or in place of the other measures referred to in Article 58 (2), such as:
injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, Article 83 (2) sets out the factors to be taken into account
taken into account when deciding whether to impose administrative penalty fees and at
determining the amount of the fee. In the case of a minor infringement, IMY
as set out in recital 148 instead of imposing a penalty fee issue one
reprimand pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b). Account shall be taken of aggravating and mitigating circumstances
circumstances of the case, such as the nature, severity and duration of the infringement
as well as previous violations of relevance.
In an overall assessment of the circumstances, the IMY finds that, with regard to complaints
1, is a minor infringement within the meaning of recital 148 and that
Klarna Bank AB must therefore be reprimanded in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) for the established party
the infringement.
_________________
This decision has been made by Catharina Fernquist, Head of Unit, after a presentation by
jurist Murat Vrana.
Catharina Fernquist, 2021-03-31 (This is an electronic signature)

Page 3 of 5

Integrity Protection Authority

Registration number: DI-2020-10518
Date: 2021-03-31

4 (5)

Copy to
The Data Protection Officer, filip.johnssen@klarna.com

Page 4 of 5

Integrity Protection Authority

Registration number: DI-2020-10518
Date: 2021-03-31

5 (5)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Privacy Protection Authority. Enter i
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Integrity Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or data that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact information can be found on the first page of the decision.

Page 5 of 5

