PROTECTING PEOPLE  
IN THE DIGITAL WORLD  
In the event of a personal data breach, when and how  
should the affected individuals be notified? (art. 34 GDPR)  
What for?  
To protect individuals from the  
consequences of a personal data breach.  
When?  
When there is a high risk to the  
rights and freedoms of individuals.  
To whom?  
To those individuals who are  
at high risk due to the breach.  
Deadline?  
Without undue delay.  
Before the consequences  
can affect individuals and with  
time for them to protect themselves.  
How?  
With a communication addressed to each of the affected individuals.  
For example, via email, SMS, instant messaging, or postal mail.  
If it involves a disproportionate effort or it is not precisely known who has been  
affected, a public announcement can be made that has the same effectiveness.  
Minimum content of the communication  
Nature  
What has happened.  
Describe whether it is a cyber incident, cyber attack,  
data sent by mistake, loss of documentation/device, etc.  
Which data has been affected.  
Specify whether it concerns basic data, contact details, email,  
username and password, copies of ID or passport, contracts,  
invoices, profiles, locations, etc.  
In what manner.  
Specify whether it is due to unauthorized access, data extracted,  
revealed to third parties or made public, altered, deleted,  
unusable or unavailable, etc.  
Measures  
Taken and proposed by the data controller to:  
Resolve the breach.  
Minimize the consequences for individuals.  
Consequences  
What impact it may have on individuals.  
Diminution of their fundamental rights, inability  
to exercise other rights, identity theft,  
inability to provide a service correctly, fraud,  
discrimination, physical or psychological harm, among others.  
Aggravating circumstances.  
The recipient of their data is the person reported by  
you, the compromised password is used in other services,  
the data has been publicly published on the internet, etc.  
Contact and identification  
Commercial or public identification of the data controller.  
Contact details of the DPO or another means of contact for  
further information.  
To take into account  
Do not use expressions that distort the message,  
such as “Your data is not at risk,” “there is no risk,” “your  
data has not been affected,” “you can be calm, we have  
already reported it to the AEPD”....  
Do not omit relevant details, so that individuals can  
assess the risk appropriately and according to their  
particular circumstances.  
It does not imply a single action or act. It can be executed in  
different actions depending on the information the  
controller has about the magnitude of the breach and the  
affected individuals.  
It is not a communication to the affected individuals:  
Notifying a breach to a client entity or company.  
Other notices or instructions for individuals that do not  
include the minimum content of art. 34.  
Unjustified public announcement, without minimum content  
or that is not equally effective (websites or corporate  
portals not visited by the affected individuals or similar).  
Guide for the notification of personal data breaches  
AEPD_es  
www.aepd.es  
AEPD  
@aepd.es