The Supreme Administrative Court did not grant ParkkiPate Oy leave to appeal – the Administrative Court decision concerning the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman's decisions will remain in force 


   


Publication date 
9.11.2023
 13.21
| Published in English on 20.11.2023 at 13.01


Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 On 9 November, the Supreme Administrative Court rejected ParkkiPate Oy's application for leave to appeal against the decision of the Helsinki Administrative Court. In July 2022, the Helsinki Administrative Court had rejected the company's claims for repealing the orders and reprimands issued by the Data Protection Ombudsman and the administrative fine imposed by the Sanctions Board. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman's Sanctions Board had imposed an administrative fine of 75,000 euros on ParkkiPate Oy in April 2021 for violations of data protection legislation in the processing of personal data in connection with parking fines. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman had investigated the company's activities based on a number of complaints. The company's violations involved, among other things, failure to fulfil the rights of the data subject and shortcomings in the limitation of data storage periods. The company had also regularly processed personal data more extensively than necessary for identification purposes. Furthermore, the company had not fully informed the data subjects of the processing of their personal data. The Data Protection Ombudsman ordered ParkkiPate Oy to bring its processing activities into compliance. The Helsinki Administrative Court upheld the orders and reprimands issued by the Data Protection Ombudsman to ParkkiPate. At the same time, the Administrative Court reduced the administrative fine to 70,000 euros. ParkkiPate applied to the Supreme Administrative Court for leave to appeal against the Administrative Court decision. The Supreme Administrative Court found no grounds for granting leave to appeal. Further information:  ​​​​​​​Supreme Administrative Court decision 3273/2023 (in Finnish) Press release, 30 April 2021: Administrative fine imposed on company for data protection violations connected to parking control fees​​​​​​​ 












appeals
solutions


