1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00167/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00449/2019

In procedure PS/00167/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Don A.A.A., given the complaint filed by Don B.B.B. and in
virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: On 10/01/18, this Agency received a complaint from the Civil Guard
—Comandancia Huesca-- (Interior Ministry) of the local resident Don B.B.B.,
demonstrating the alleged illegal installation of at least four video cameras-
surveillance identifying as the presumed responsible the resident of the locality Don
A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimed) installed at ***ADDRESS.1.

The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“That your neighbor has placed four video-surveillance cameras on a road
adjoining his property, that of said road the complainant enjoys easement
incidentally (...) alleging that his neighbor violates the privacy of his farm and that of all the
people who pass through the aforementioned road"

“That this situation has been going on for about a year
until a discussion began last June. which attached to the
denounces an expert report made on 09/18/18 consisting of 45 pages
printed on one side” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: Due to the claim, the party was TRANSFERRED
denounced on 10/15/18 the claim to argue about the legality of the
system in question, appearing as "Notified" in the computer system of this
organism.

THIRD: On 03/06/19 and 03/14/19 briefs of allegations are received from the
defendant, as well as various photographic material in support of their claims,
Although analyzed it is considered insufficient to proceed to decree the
File of this administrative procedure.

FOURTH: On July 2, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to submit this
warning procedure PS/00167/2019. This agreement was notified to
denounced.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FIFTH: On 07/29/19, this AEPD received a written statement of allegations from the party
denounced by means of which:

-Provides Judgment No. 000071/2019 issued by the Provincial Court of

Hueca on 05/31/19.

-Provides screen printing (Annex Doc. I, photographic evidence 1-3).

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 10/01/18, a claim was received from the complainant through the
which is transferred as the main fact:

“That your neighbor has placed four video-surveillance cameras on a road
adjoining his property, that of said road the complainant enjoys easement
incidentally (...) alleging that his neighbor violates the privacy of his farm and that of all the
people who pass through the aforementioned road"

“That this situation has been going on for about a year
until a discussion began last June. which attached to the
denounces an expert report made on 09/18/18 consisting of 45 pages
printed on one side” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. A.A.A.,

Third. The installation of the system was carried out by the company Unión de Montajes Eléctricos
S.L, lacking the display screen system, so access only
It can be done through a network device with the access codes to the system.

Fourth. The presence of an informative poster(s) is accredited, although with
reference to the previous regulations (LOPD).

Fifth. The images provided have a privacy mask, being the
same proportionate to the purpose pursued, without affecting the right of
third parties.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

In the present case, we proceed to examine the Complaint forwarded to this Agency by
the Civil Guard (Interior Ministry) on the occasion of the complaint of the neighbor of the town-
Don B.B.B.—as a result of the installation of four video-surveillance cameras with
presumed orientation towards public space.

The facts described above may affect the
content of article 5.1 letter c) RGPD, which provides the following: "The data
personal will be:

      c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals can install video surveillance cameras
although they assume the responsibilities that they comply with the provisions
in force on the matter.

  In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

For informational purposes only, it is worth remembering some of the requirements that must be
comply with the processing of images through a video surveillance system to be
in accordance with current regulations:

III

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in places
public can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both in the
cited article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, resulting from the application
-by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided in the
Article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, on the Processing of Personal Data for the Purpose of
Surveillance through Camera Systems or Video Cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

Specifically, it must:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Place in the video-monitored areas, at least one badge
1.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in spaces
open as closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the informative sign above
mentioned must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided in
these precepts.

Keep available to those affected the information to which

two.
refers to the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

In accordance with the foregoing, it can be concluded that according to a judicial pronouncement (doc. no.
1) The transit zone is not classified as a “right of way”, beyond the use

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

that the neighbors of the area in question can do.

From the point of view of data protection, there is no accredited control
of the area, which affects the privacy of passers-by, fulfilling a purpose of
protection of their private property, beyond the mere "speculations" of the
complainant.

The images provided are from the exclusive area of the accused, which
capture the area of the wall (back part of the Restaurant on your property) with the
purpose of protecting the establishment and its belongings, in such a way that
obtains any image of the passage area, being only an appreciation of the
complainant.

Although the installation is not the most suitable, it achieves the same purpose
installing the cameras inside the establishment oriented towards the area to be
protect (eg rear wall of the same), according to the evidence provided does not
any administrative infraction can be accredited, being a personal matter of the
responsible for the way in which it has wanted to protect the property outlined.

The parties are reminded that personal conflicts between them
must settle in the competent judicial venues, not having to instrumentalize this
agency for issues other than data protection.

According to what was stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- PROCEED to decree the FILE of this procedure, since there is no
accredited administrative infraction.

2.- NOTIFY this Agreement to Don A.A.A. and INFORM the party
Whistleblower Don B.B.B..

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

