Review of the topics of the 98th DSK
 
 11/21/2019
 
 Post Office |
 
 
 press release
 
 
Many current topics were on the agendaPress releaseFrom license plate recognition and "artificial intelligence" to the focus on "health" - At the 98th conference of data protection officers of the federal and state governments (DSK), many current topics were on the agendaAt their 98th meeting on 6 On November 7th and 7th, 2019 in Trier, the conference of data protection officers of the federal and state governments (DSK) passed a series of resolutions and resolutions. The spectrum of topics ranged from criticism of a mass automated recording of vehicle license plates to the adoption of a position paper on the data protection-compliant use of artificial intelligence. Another focus was the health sector. In view of the associated risks, in view of the ongoing digitization of the healthcare system, the DSK calls for ensuring that patient data is protected according to the state of the art, regardless of the size of medical facilities. Health websites and apps must also guarantee the confidentiality that is expected of them. In a "white paper" (collection of recommendations), technical requirements for the use of messenger services in the hospital sector were also compiled, which should serve as the basis for further discussions. In addition, the DSK issued test orders, e.g. with regard to the use of language assistance systems Data protection issues, to the relevant working groups and decided on rules of conduct for better coordination and cooperation with the European supervisory authorities. The state representative for data protection and freedom of information in Saarland, Ms. Monika Grethel, drew a positive conclusion at the end of the conference and explained: "The increasing scope of the agendas of the data protection conference and the large number of different focal points clearly show that the advancing digitization affects almost all areas of life and makes it necessary to deal with data protection issues in a new way. It is therefore essential for data protection officers to recognize technical developments and their effects at an early stage and to deal with them critically. It is the task of the data protection authority to identify risks (in advance) and counteract them without wasting opportunities for innovation.”
 return
 